ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e75	Honourable co-representatives! Former prime minister Sigurd Verdal is dead, 83 years old. With the passing of Sigurd Verdal, we've lost a big community builder. The Labour Party has lost a party political force. Until recently, Sigurd Verdal was active and visible in his community, and it has not been long since he visited the Stortinget. He is remembered with gratitude by a great friend. Sigurd Verdal sat on the Storting for three periods, from 1981 to 1993, after first being an alternate for two periods. He was on the Committee on Agriculture, where he was also Vice-Chairman, and on the Committee on Transport. He was vice-president of the Lagtinget, and thus a member of the Presidentship of the Stortinge in the period 1985-1989. Everyone who knew Sigurd Verdal knew that he was beside the policy of steeped in skiing. In civil, Sigurd Verdal was a teacher and headmaster. As I said, he was also a sportsman, an organizational man, a local and county politician, an internationalist, a goalie and a storyteller. Sigurd Verdal was like and held by all, known for his direct speech and for his strongly developed sense of justice. No things were too small, and no one was too big. Sigurd Verdal was a European. He believed in a cooperating Europe and considered the EU to be the best solution. He was a member of the Nordic Council and was a delegate to the UN General Assembly. He was a member of both the Stortinges Group of the Interparliamentary Union and the Stortinges delegation to the European Parliament. After he finished Stortinget in 1993, Sigurd Verdal became the head of the Sales Council. Later he became an industrial founder, and he agreed to start the new export company NOR-PLATE AS. Most of the work in advice, control and selection he left behind gradually. Sigurd Verdal found peace and quiet with the family, not least on the cottage of the father's yard, Verdal in Eiken. Sigurd Verdal joined the Workers' Party as a 13-year-old. And in March of this year, party leader Jens Stoltenberg was able to bring him the diploma for 70 years of active membership during the annual meeting of the Vest-Agder Arbeiderparti. We thank Sigurd Verdal for his long-standing and great social exposure and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e105	From the Group of the Progressive Alliance, there is an application for a permit from the representative of Jan Arild Ellingsen from 12 October to 15 October to take part in meetings with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Cambridge. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kari Storstrand, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e123	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e126	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Svein Harberg, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I will put forward proposals for better online healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e131	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e147	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e163	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e181	Justice is at the heart of all the fight against crime and is likely to become more and more important in the future. The DNA reform that the government has achieved in a price-effective way is an example of this. Good quality in forensics is essential. We know that a number of murders have been caused by infirmities in forensic work. In a U.S. study of 86 murders published in the journal Science in 2005, the conclusion was that the failure of forensic and forensic work was due to 63 pst. of the cases of the murder of the judiciary. In Norway, we have had the Liland case and the Fritz Moen case, which was missing in the time of death, contributing to the outcome. Once I have travelled this interpellation, it is precisely from a desire to strengthen the side of the legal security situation in Norway that has its basis in a highly coordinated legal environment. It will also act as a crime prevention tool. I am very well aware that the organisation of the government's tasks is the responsibility of the government, but legal certainty and crime prevention are a collective responsibility. That is why this theme belongs in the main hall. The field is also at present being developed internationally. New techniques are still in use. Modern radiological CT and MR scanning methods are now routinely used in many areas of autopsy, techniques that have been shown to detect killings that would otherwise have been ignored. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should have the ambition to be at the forefront of international justice. We need to make better use of the potential of investigation and crime prevention provided by forensics and will provide for the future. If we're going to do that, we're going to need improvements in several fields. Among other things, the police have to have the resources to go to the scene and secure the material. Here the DNA reform has been an important step in the positive direction, but we still have some way to go. There is also a need for increased competence in police districts in the area of sampling and traceability, and for optimum cooperation with medical experts in the broadest sense. On the other hand, recruitment, research and development. Norway is soon the only country in Europe where forensic medicine is not its own specialty. Both Finland, Sweden and Denmark have this. It makes recruitment to the subject more difficult, and it can be seen that the average age of permanent scientific experts at the Oslo Institute is now 60 years. I want to challenge the government on what it will do to strengthen recruitment, research and development in legal pathology, legal psychiatry and clinical forensics for the rest. Not least, and that is the main theme of this interpellation, there is a great need for a new and better organisation of forensic expertise in this country. It has long been a recognition that today's organisation is too divided, too fragmented. A number of ministries have responsibilities and interests in the field, and different institutions carry out forensic work related to criminal cases in Norway. Several investigations have pointed out that the current organisation and financing of forensic services, with no overall responsibility and thinking, is unsatisfactory. The need for organisational intervention was already promoted in a 2001 NOU, forensic expertise in criminal matters, and was repeated in the so-called Hareide report to the police director in 2006. So far, unfortunately, little has happened in connection with the follow-up of this, and changing governments have to take responsibility for it. The Hareide report concluded that a more coherent and rational organisation of forensic expertise will provide a basis for increased awareness of the use of scientific analysis as a key instrument in the fight against crime. It is also recognised that there is a need for significantly more strategic thinking, long-term planning and research-based expertise than the current situation provides. A nearby solution to achieve a more holistic and rational organisation of analytical environments will be to bring them together. It will most likely provide administrative and professional synergies. Among other things, an overall environment will provide a broader basis for research and scientific anchoring of study methods and assessment of findings in individual cases. It will also be easier to meet the need for overall thinking and governance. The experts of the Hareide Committee also saw the need for increased awareness of the role of experts and considered that a wide-ranging professional community could contribute to this. In a note from Professors Jørg Mørland and Torleiv Rognum of the project group: ‘In our opinion, closer cooperation between forensic disciplines will be very beneficial. This may happen in the context of a major medical profession in which research is carried out relevant to the various forensic fields, this will further contribute to the maintenance and strengthening of forensic medicine. This, we believe, will once again be a prerequisite for sufficient quality in the field of forensics where the requirements for soundness and scientific foundations are increasing." The Christian People's Party will join in the conclusions of the Hareide report and propose the establishment of a new instrument dealing with expert investigations and analyses on the mission of the police and other public institutions in the fields of legal pathology, legal genetics, forensics and chemical analysis. Such a legal expert institute could be a professional centre for legal expertise also for adjoining disciplines such as law odontology, law anthropology, legal psychiatry and legal psychology. Research and development in the relevant disciplines should be entrusted to the Institute. An important task for such a legal expert institute will be to contribute to the building of competences in the police districts, in particular in terms of track safety. There is also a need to profile and ensure the quality of the function as a legal assessor. The Hareide Committee wanted such a State's legal expert institute to take up the current forensic institute, the Division for Retthosciology and Drug Research at the Institute for Public Health, the Tol Laboratory and the chemical analyses carried out today at Kripos. This can be a good starting point for a necessary reorganisation. It is not Storting's job to design the organisation of government services. But the Storting cannot without concern record that the situation in this area is so fragmented, nor can we avoid recording from the press that it has been, and in part is, a difficult situation in this professional environment that requires action from the overall level to ensure that the important social concerns of legal certainty and of crime prevention are not affected by the difficult situation in which this field is located. I know the Minister of Justice as a powerful and committed state council. I am convinced that he shares our desire to strengthen forensic medicine in Norway and that he sees these contexts. I would therefore challenge him to address the challenges in this area and contribute to ensuring a more effective organisation of the field, like I have outlined it in this interpellation, but not necessarily so. There are other ways to do it. The crucial thing now, I think, in the current situation, is to achieve a more comprehensive and comprehensive approach across departments, across agencies, research institutions and treatment institutions, so that the overall objectives of legal certainty in Norway are better achieved. I therefore challenge the Council of State to take an initiative in the collection and strengthening of forensic medicine through the State's Institute of Law in some form or other. Because I believe that a continuing lack of coordination, holistic thinking and governance will hamper the development of the field and the fight against crime in Norway in a way that we are not served. Norway should have all the opportunities to be at the forefront of this field. We can't do that without bringing the cancers together in closer cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e220	First of all, I would like to thank you for the interpellation. It is nice to be able to start working sessions in Stortinget this fall with such a kind of case. Because it's important, and I think it's also quite timely on the part of Storting, to get involved in these questions. In this way, there are important signals that also come from the parties, to which we are going to listen. I actually have a very brief answer to the main question of the interpellation, whether we will ‘assess the establishment of a State's legal expert institute as proposed in the Hareide report in 2006’. The answer is yes, we will assess that. It is essential that we further strengthen legal expertise in Norway. We see that legal expertise, as the interpellant also mentions, only plays a more important and important role in a quite wide field, but it faces the same type of challenges in terms of competence, in relation to recruitment, in relation to quality assurance, in relation to the control regime. So I would also like to stress that what makes this a challenge, and that also makes it a good thing that we have such a debate in Stortinget, which can provide dragon help to anyone who wants to take action on this issue, is that here there are a lot of actors inside, and there are a lot of interests inside as well. Forensics is an area where several departments have responsibilities and interests. That's the way it's going to be in the future, no matter how we organize ourselves. Health, the university sector and the justice sector are key elements of this. A lot of forensic work is done in Norway in connection with several institutions. The organisation in the field of forensics and forensics varies from country to country. Some countries have grouped these tasks under government administration. Other countries have a more fragmented system of public and private laboratories working to assist on a commercial basis with surveys and analyses. Apart from legal psychiatry, Norway has chosen to bring together the expertise and expertise of institutions in the Oslo area – the Institute of Forensics, the Institute of Public Health and the Kripos – which is subject to public governance and control, as well as the forensic activities related to universities in the country. In my opinion, both the Department of Forensics, the Institute of Public Health and Kripos have a great deal of respect for the work done, both in general and in the courts, which receive these expert advice. They also enjoy great respect among defenders and in Norwegian police and prosecution authorities. The Hareide report, to which the interpellant refers, proposes the establishment of a new State Judicial Institute. The working group issuing the report was tasked with investigating how to organise and finance extended DNA registration in criminal justice. In the short term, the working group proposed to address the need for increased analytical capacity under a new DNA code by strengthening the RMI, the Forensic Institute, and establishing new and effective data communication solutions between police districts, Kripos and RMI. As a long-term measure, the Working Group proposed to merge the RMI, the Division for Physiology and Drug Research at the Institute for Public Health, the Chemistry Section at the Kripos and the Tol Laboratory into a new State Institute. The new institute shall, on its proposal, be managed by a board appointed by the King of State Council and shall sort under the Ministry of Health. That's what the proposal sounded like. I believe that this is a proposal that is definitely still up-to-date, and from which it is interesting to work. However, there are many questions raised related to this. It's a vast and complicated area to move into. The proposal for such an institution has encountered objections in the consultation round. The Institute of Public Health highlighted inter alia: that the proposal did not address the need for close contact between the forensic and other medical disciplines and that the development of legal psychiatry and pathology has not been adequately discussed. Several questions were also raised in order to distinguish the chemical analysis activities of Kripos in a new institute. The forensic commission warned against strong centralisation and pointed to the importance of developing and maintaining good expert environments in the university environments of the country. That is why I am currently not prepared to conclude on this. But I believe that the intentions they want and, to the extent that the challenges we see in this area have not made it impractical to continue to consider this issue, especially because we are now seeing the end of the first phase of what was in a way the great legal expert initiative of the government, and for which we received broad support here in the Storting, namely the DNA reform. I guess I just have to admit that here we have to take one thing at a time. It was important for us to get the DNA reform in place and get the effect out of it. It's been challenging. At the same time, I want to take the opportunity, since I have this right now, to give credit to the forensic institute for the job done. It's a significant job that's been done against the DNA reform. The government has granted over 60 million. SEK in 2008 and 100 million. kr in 2009 for increased focus on DNA sampling and central funding. This year it's set at nearly 120 million. kr for this purpose. The government's commitment to increasing the use of DNA as evidence in criminal justice has been proposed to continue in the government budget for next year. We have invested significantly in personnel, training and equipment to ensure efficiency and quality at all stages, from the police to the police to ensure traces of the crime scene, which is also the subject of the interpellant – the work done by the police has, after all, been of great importance for other types of track protection – until DNA profiles are produced and recorded, and until the results are used for investigation and reconnaissance. And we see significant results in the number of solved things. It is gratifying that it has now been registered approx. 23,500 searchable personal profiles in the DNA registers, which help us quickly get to the perpetrator. I've said it many times, and I like to repeat it: there are a very small number of people who commit criminal acts in this country, and getting an increase in the number of registered persons in the DNA registers from well 10,000 to 23,500 brings significant benefits. Over the years we've been behind, we've done a lot of work to get this done. According to the Police Directorate, several serious thefts committed by organised criminals solved using DNA in 2010. Also very serious crime committed abroad is this year solved because organized criminals are registered into the Norwegian DNA registry. The use of experts raises important and fundamental questions. Often, difficult or verifiable peer reviews form the basis for the expert’s conclusion. The fact that expert judgements often have a crucial role to play in the decisions of courts and other bodies makes, in my opinion, a need to assess the use of experts from a broad perspective. As mentioned in Government Bill Prop. 14 L for 2009-2010, the Ministry of Justice will start work to identify when expert judgements form part of the decision-making basis of courts and other bodies and review the law on the use of experts, which is absolutely necessary. The University of Oslo has now appointed, as far as the Institute of Forensic Medicine is concerned, an interim board to submit a proposal to the Board of University on the future organisation of the Institute of Forensic Medicine by the end of 2010. I await this investigation and will assess the need for further investigation of the forensic work when it is available. I think there will be an important piece in any possible possible coordination of the legal experts' services, which I think have a lot of excitement in it. I also notice that the Forensic Institute is now stabilising the number of track samples you get to about 700, so that you are now actually treating more than what you get in these days, and is working down what you need to do. In addition, together with the Minister of Research and Higher Education and the Minister of Health, I will now carry out a broader review of the field of law, including on the basis of this interpellation, including of the offer of expert environments in relation to the universities of the country. The primary need is to ensure predictability of criminal justice for the timely and sufficiently high level of professional provision of law-enforcement services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e254	Let me first thank the Minister of Justice for a positive, timely and thorough reply. I see that the intentions expressed here today by the Minister of Justice are entirely in line with the intentions of my message in the interpellation. I respect the complexity of the processes, but I want to remind the Minister of Justice that they have been going on for a long time, that the critical situation in particular in one of these environments has called on public attention, and that it is necessary to take overall governance action. From different points of view, this is an important area, but it is most important for the Minister of Justice, it is most important for the judicial sector in Norway that this works. The Minister of Health will always be a part-time actor in this field – with all due respect, she has its constitutional responsibility – but the main emphasis of her attention must be in a completely different direction. The same applies to the Minister of Research and the university sector. They are important co-players, but the overall responsibility for how this sector develops is that of the Minister of Justice. And with all due respect for the complexity and the image of the actor here, which is difficult enough, although everyone is state-owned, I believe that if there is not a strong grip from the top of the government at the Minister of Justice as the most interested in this success, it will quickly force itself on other solutions, which I do not believe the Minister of Justice is particularly interested in. These problems have to be solved in a good way. There's probably others here who'll get into it. For my part, I believe in a strong public overall governance of this field, but it depends on the public doing its job. I just want to say that I'm more impatient than the Minister of Justice, but I'm positive with his intentions. I have faith in his power of action, and I hope that he will follow this path further, and that it will produce results in the form of a more coordinated and powerful environment for the best of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e263	I just have to stress what I said in the answer to the interpellation. I understand the impatience, because the Hareide report came in 2006. But at the same time, I'm not sure if it was the right time last year – to say so – or early this year to serve up major structural changes to the environments working on this. It is not possible to hide – we have also noticed – that it has been necessary to address the situation, among other things. at the Institute of Forensics. I am pleased that the Minister of Research and Higher Education has actually done so, especially with the governance that has now been taken at the Institute of Forensics. So I also want to say that one thing is this discussion about collecting all the cancers, which I think actually has a lot to do. Another thing is everything else that the interpellant also draws up, because we have significant challenges in recruitment to at least some of the disciplines, and we also have challenges to ensure that we get good competence into these positions. One thing is to be a psychiatrist, another thing is to go to court and – I kept saying – give professional advice in view of quite difficult and too many very foreign definitions of a more legal psychiatric nature, for example. So we have other challenges beyond the organizational ones. But one of the reasons why I believe that the interpellant and at least the undersigned agree that there can be quite a good effect of a greater degree of interaction between these institutions, a legal expert institute, is that it would just help to lift the authority, the status and also the ability to operate a transversal building of competences. Because when you stand in court and give advice, there are a lot of the same challenges you face, whether you're a pathologist, a psychiatrist or, for that matter, another type of clinic that comes and is going to provide guidance. That's what makes it exciting, and in fact, I think it could provide drag help even in the other challenges we're facing. And then I would like to stress that in most of the major, serious criminal cases that have to do with physical impairment in particular, we see that this is central. It only gets a more and more central role, also for another type of crime. The DNA reform is a very good example of how central this becomes. We can't just base it on the fact that the DNA evidence is completely waterproof. We have to ask critical questions about these evidence at all times. In view of that, there are many ways in which we can support ourselves under the impatience that the interpellant also shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e276	The interpellant says it is important to organise effectively the role of forensic medicine in the fight against crime. That's a starting point that's hard to disagree with. But it is also important to stress that much is done by the government in terms of combating crime. We clarify more and prevent better. On 1 September 2008, access to record DNA profiles in the criminal justice scene was extended to so-called everyday criminality. A proper and important grip. DNA reform is one of the major reforms in criminal justice, and the aim is effective investigation and clarification, taking into account both the crime that affects people most, and more serious crime. One of the most important aspects of the reform is, among other things: That the police now, using DNA, take several of the repetitions. The number of DNA analyses has increased considerably during the DNA reform. At the end of 2009 there were no residues in the RMI for the analysis of personal samples. It is important to stress, as the Council of State does, that the DNA reform is one of many, very important contributions to increased legal certainty in criminal justice. There's no doubt that in any of the biggest criminal cases in recent years, DNA traces have been critical to the clearance. Crime is becoming increasingly cross-border. Now that Norway is part of the Prüm agreement, we have access to fingerprints and DNA across the EU, which in turn means that the clearance rate will increase further. It's an important topic being addressed by the interpellant. The government is committed to strengthening the use of forensic expertise, but it is also important to stress that this Council of State and the Red-Green Government have actually delivered a major boost in this area. Because when we also know how extensive and varied track analyses can be on a case-by-case basis, it's no exaggeration to pay great attention to everyone involved in the DNA reform for everything from scale, number of samples and how many have been registered, and then also the number of hits. As the interpellant says, forensics is central to today's fight against crime. It has become more central under the authority of this State Council and will become further central in the years to come. I'm glad we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e291	The interpellant raises an important question. Forensic expertise used and interpreted correctly is important in several ways. It is a prerequisite for legal certainty for a suspect, intentional or accused person at the same time as it is a prerequisite for resolving cases on behalf of victims and communities, and for convicted persons. The aim of any reform must, of course, be to clarify it more, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty. Of course, I fully agree with the Council's emphasis on the timely provision of these services at a sufficiently high professional level. I think it is important in that area that we do not think that we should have a reform that will be a desktop reform. We've looked at Nav, how it went. This is an example of how to coordinate widely different cultures. It takes a lot. I don't think the challenges in this field are exactly smaller, as the Council of State so far had its answer. Much has happened after a unanimous collapse in the adoption of the DNA reform. We may think that there is reason to look at how cooperation is in the established institutions – how it works today – before we may consider whether to start merging them. We've seen over time how, for example. The RMI has received strong criticism of the way things are handled up there. It all worked out, as most people did, when Director Olav Gunnar Ballo left after a very short time at the RMI. Of course, none of us can decide what was the overall description of reality up there, but if half of what the then director of the RMI said was right, it must be said that it can be a challenge to combine it with other environments, whether it is that employees call themselves witches and color their hair in certain ways or sabotage decisions, that they do not perceive that the police are almost customers and pay for the service they provide, and that it has been almost impossible to obtain qualified statistics. We've got that after the pressure from the Right now, at last. The problem in Norway today, when we now boast of the DNA reform, is that we do not choose to use the only environment that has been accredited for a long time, which can deliver faster and more effectively and ensure more legal certainty, namely Gena in Stavanger. A good start in getting more legal certainty is therefore, in the Right's view, not to start by creating further large structures that monopolise this, but to actually start using those environments that are partly publicly funded and partly privately funded and that achieve better results than the RMI, before discussing huge reforms like the Nav reform tried on forensics. We've had a lot of laps in the past, so I'm not going to repeat Right's arguments, but in the budget and in the Council's response, it's underlined that you need to have a round on and have a review of the environments associated with the country's universities. Then I ask the Council of State if it also means that he is now opening up to other environments, before it ever had to fit the Tromsø environment to finish up there, that you start using already established qualified environments, before you start making major reforms like what the interpellant is dealing with. There is reason to point out that the Council of State is satisfied that there are 23,500 searchable personal profiles in the DNA registry, while there were 10,000 in 2008. But the question is, how impressive is it in relation to the money that has been spent, and not least that other environments have not been allowed to develop and use free capacity, in a phase where we would get much more person profiles, hopefully, into the DNA registers? So finally, there's been some talk about interaction here. It is a challenge for justice and research to share responsibility, because there are two very different cultures that meet each other. I know a lot of insiders in the police who do not think it is particularly satisfactory that more research-oriented people at the RMI interpret their mandate in addition to their mandate, in order to instruct the police on how to proceed in obtaining evidence. There have been examples of this. I've also seen various reports from the University of Oslo, where you have different cultures for how things shouldn't be up there. It also hits the RMI, so the Right will at least encourage better interaction within the structures you have, and not least the use of smaller innovators that are actually better than the RMI, already today, so that we can get the DNA reform as planned by the time it was adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e310	I will not fall for the temptation to draw up the debate on the parallel to which the representative Octay Dahl referred. I think it's a picture that limps strongly. It's true that when you're facing clear goals and you have a very fragmented device to achieve those goals, you have to do something about it. The Minister of Justice has stated from the Parliament today that he intends to do so, along with the others involved. Finally, I have reason to ask the question: How does the Minister of Justice think he is keeping the Storting both informed and involved in the work on the solutions he now has on the drawing board?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e319	Thanks for recording! It's very all right to be able to go into this difficult matter and have had a round here in the house in front. I mean that. I hear what the Right says, and I hear what the Christian People's Party says, and I believe that there are good arguments coming from both sides, in fact. We are ready to inform the Storting about the development of this work in an appropriate way. The natural thing for us would most likely be in the budgetary work – at the first occasion of the revision – to look at what kind of process we are actually going to have for the work we are now going into. I must also stress, in the light of the statement by the representative Octay Dahl, that we are very pleased with the work done by the Institute of Forensics, not only in terms of capacity, but also in terms of quality. I've said that many times here in Stortinget, and I stand by that. I believe that there is great trust in the work done there, and that is one of the main reasons why the government believes that it is the Forensic Institute that needs to take care of the DNA work. I also think that the Stortinget is a relatively poor place to discuss and conclude any agreements with private operators, which may have to be both tendered and what it might be, if you want to involve other commercial operators – something the government has said that we do not want that. But we want a so-called second opinion environment that we have pointed out should be in Tromsø. I believe that the work done is good, also in terms of volume. So, the 23,500 people who are now in the register are a significant number, and we see that the results increase significantly after we have registered so many people who have committed criminal acts that qualify to be registered. It's a very small group of people who commit large parts of crime, so this is already a very useful tool. And then a little bit to the question of managing this. I believe that the Ministry of Justice has a decisive share in this, and we have a vital interest in this. I'm not sure it's the Ministry of Justice that's gonna sit and run a future institute. There I would argue that independence to the professional environments should be ensured, and that it speaks for the fact that there are other departments that might have to manage it. But we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e332	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e348	There has been broad political agreement on the need for better coordination of health services in the capital area. This interpellation is about how to ensure that the capital process is carried out in a way that ensures patient safety and quality of supply. My main concern is to assure me that the Council of State is following up on the political responsibility she has, for the very demanding process to come to an end in a reassuring way. Already in 2004, the Bondevik II government received a report showing how the lack of coordination of health services in the metropolitan area weakened the provision of healthcare to patients. At this time the border between Health South and Health East went straight through Oslo City. Many of the professional environments on either side of this health policy wall were too small to ensure optimal quality and patient safety. The duplication of functions tied up resources that could have been used to provide patients with more and better treatment. At the same time, this led to a double administration and a bureaucratic system for patients. From a professional and political point of view, it was pointed out that the pooling of professional environments would enhance the quality and research of healthcare. Only through better coordination of support functions in this area should it be possible to release amounts in the 100 million class, which can be used for more and better treatment, as well as for investment in new medical devices and research. The current Minister of Health and Welfare Ansgar Gabrielsen launched the proposal for a merger of Health South and Health East, and the proposal was promoted by the Right in the Stortinget in 2006. The merger was carried out by the government of Stoltenberg II on 1 June 2007. Health South-East was thus responsible for providing better health services to over half of the country’s population through 69 000 good employees, divided into 16 local health establishments. By dividing into hospital areas, there are, among other things: establish a new Oslo University Hospital, which covers the activities of both Ullevål, Rikshospitalet and Aker. One of the most demanding tasks in Health South-East is the coordination of the capital area – the so-called capital process. The process involves a comprehensive transition to ensure better coordination of specialist healthcare services in Oslo and Akershus. It has been decided that the specialised regional functions should be collected in Gaustad and that Ullevål should be a local hospital for the population of Oslo. 160,000 patients from Alna and Follo shall have been transferred from Oslo University Hospital to the Aarhus Recording Area by 1 January 2011. Liability for the merger within, inter alia, Paediatric, dialysis and ear-nose neck shall be transferred from Oslo University Hospital to the West Viken during the first quarter of 2011. A so-called redesign of clinics in Oslo University Hospital shall be carried out in order to gather clinics that are now scattered at different locations in the capital. This is essential to ensure better quality in patient services and research. It will then be necessary to provide the basis for achieving the coordination gain, which will provide a long-term opportunity for investment in new premises and improved medical and technical equipment. Representatives of the management, employees and patients of the healthcare undertakings concerned have been aware that the capital process involves very demanding conversions, at the limit of soundness. On the right-hand side, we would like to stress that patient safety and quality in the provision of treatment must be the overriding other considerations in such a process. Oslo University Hospital points out in its steering documents of 30 September this year that there are several significant risk factors in the project. It's red for the transfer of patients from Oslo University Hospital to West Viken and Aarhus. The responsibility for immediate assistance shall be transferred from 1 January 2011 and from that date the latter hospital shall assume responsibility for chronic disease and referral of new patients in its new areas of exposure. It's especially the time factor that's critical here. The board of Aarhus has upgraded the risk assessment for patient transfer, because recruitment of personnel is not yet in place. One of the most obvious problems in this complex process of transferring patients is that it is not clear what staff needs Oslo University Hospital will have in the future. This has led to the recruitment of new personnel to Ahus and Västre Viken. Staff plans for Oslo University Hospital will be available only on 15 October, just two and a half months before large patient groups will be transferred and personnel will have to be in place at Aarhus and West Viken. It also leads to challenges for other health businesses elsewhere in the country if one comes into a situation where there is strong competition for health professionals in the area that is already under the greatest pressure, and one then starts to drain hospitals otherwise in the region of professionals. On the right, we support the health care companies’ assessment that the practical transfer of patients will only take place when sufficient personnel are in place. We note that healthcare companies are working together to get this done, and recommend to the Council of State to make a continuous assessment of whether this can be properly realised. It is demanding to reverse patient flows by 1 January 2011, and this must be done within the framework of the right to free hospital choice. Oslo University Hospital believes that there is a small risk that this process will be affected by emergency treatment, with the serious consequences this will have for patient treatment. There are measures in place to further reduce the risk, but I would ask the Council of State to assure us that this is carried out in such a way that one does not endanger life and health. Oslo University Hospital believes that there is a high risk that the transfer will lead to increased waiting time for treatment, as the migration process takes a lot of time from patient-oriented activities. In this case, this would be contrary to the government’s statement that a reduction in waiting time is expected next year. I would challenge the Council of State to give a realistic assessment of the possibility of achieving this when one has such a large process of conversion for the population of Oslo and Akershus – which in reality constitutes half of the country's population. Health businesses have also pointed out that the migration process is costly, in particular because the personnel needs are increased when mergers overlap during a complex patient transfer process. This is a challenge facing many health businesses in the country through their conversion processes. At the same time, there is little doubt that the capital process is particularly demanding in terms of scale and complexity. Although migration is expected to release resources in the long term, expenditure is expected to increase at the same time as revenue is reduced. The director of the Oslo University Hospital, Steinar Marthinsen, took the unusual step of notifying his owner in Health South-East that the economic challenges were so extensive that they threatened the implementation of the capital process. The same Marthinsen, by virtue of his position as Director of Health South-East, stated that the government’s proposals for the 2011 government budget are positive for the health region. It is desirable for the Council of State to clarify whether this means that the conversion of the capital process can be carried out in a sound manner, while at the same time reducing the waiting time, strengthening the interaction with the municipalities and keeping the budgets. We have seen trends in the health businesses concerned and Health South-East pointing to each other, while the Minister for Health and Welfare points to Health South-East when the concern for the implementation of the capital process arises. The model of health enterprises implies that much of the responsibility for the ongoing operation and important decisions has been assigned to regional health enterprises and local health enterprises. However, I would like to stress that we have never delegated the overall political responsibility for ensuring safe and good patient treatment. It was a political decision that initiated the capital process, and it is a political responsibility that the process should be carried out safely in port. It is a political responsibility of the Minister of Health towards Stortinget to clarify that the process currently underway is quality assured in such a way that it does not risk leading to patient treatment failure, reduced quality or lack of provision in the capital area. The capital process also affects the other local health establishments in Health South-East. This afternoon, there is a large torch train in South Africa related to the challenges facing Health South-East, which is closely linked to the economic situation of Health South-East and linked to the capital process. In my opinion, this is the largest reorganisation ever faced by the Norwegian health system — not in figures, but because it is this reorganisation that affects most employees in the health system, and not least the reorganisation that affects most patients in the healthcare system. In the past, reorganisations have only affected management and organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e384	Let me first say that the consideration of patients and the quality of patient care is the most important thing for me, and that is the most important thing in the specialist healthcare service. It's also this thing that's in focus when we're doing big shifts that we're facing – and that we're in the middle of now. At the same time, I am concerned that we should provide hospital services that contribute to the security of everyone. That is why we have significantly strengthened hospital activity through our proposal for a government budget. The most important thing we do to ensure good and sound health provision is that we are able to give priority to public health services. However, we also need to ensure that services are organised in order to provide hospital services with high quality, safety and availability. As the representative Höie was involved, it was a matter of years ago that hospitals in Oslo were located in two different health regions, and the professional environments within the same disciplines were located in several places. There were clear opportunities for improvement by coordinating the professional environment and making the offer more transparent for patients. The merger of Health South and Health East was a fact in 2007. The new region was given a clear mandate to improve coordination and resource use in the region and in the capital area in particular. Both Oslo University Hospitals and Aarhus are facing demanding changes and important challenges to care for patients and employees. Changes at Oslo University Hospitals shall enhance the competence of the environment and ensure better resource use. This will also make services more equivalent and transparent for the population and facilitate interaction between hospitals and the municipality. The collection of several functions in Ullevål hospitals and the Rikshospitale will take place in several stages and will be implemented during 2011 and 2012. These are changes that have less consequences for patients but involve the relocation and accumulation of occupational settings. I assume that Health South-East RHF ensures that Oslo University Hospitals have a good dialogue with the professional environments of the three respective hospitals, so that the transfer of functions and the collection of professional environments takes place in a proper and well-planned way – and that good professional environments are not degraded as a result of the lack of predictability and influence on their own work situation. Once the decision has been taken and the transfer is fixed in time, this shall be communicated clearly and clearly to both the trade unions and the outside world. In a phase of heavy conversion, communication management is very important in order to create understanding and build trust. Another consequence of these changes is that the population of the city of Alna and Follo will be transferred from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus from 2011. Overall, this implies a reduced patient base for Oslo University Hospital of 160,000 people and a corresponding increased patient base for Aarhus. The capacity of the two health establishments needs to be adapted to the changed patient base. According to Health South-East, manning is an identified risk factor in the capital process. In order to manage the increased patient base from 2011, Aarhus’s staffing needs to be increased. This is thought to be done, among other things. by facilitating the transfer of staff from Oslo University Hospital. There have been delays in this process, but it is now assumed that there will be enough applicants at the advertised positions at Aarhus. But regardless of these challenges, Health South-East has assured me that no patients will be transferred from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus until there is certainty that patients will receive at least as good a service offer at Aarhus. The population in the metropolitan area, and in the Groruddalen, shall be guaranteed an equivalent and sound local hospital offer either at Oslo University Hospital, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital, Diakonhemmet or Aarhus. Attention has been paid to the continued operation of Aker Hospital after 2010. According to Health South-East, the operation at Aker Hospital is to be continued until the transfer of functions to Ullevål Hospital and the Rikshospital respectively has been completed. I've been made aware that the orthopaedic business is moving in the first half of 2011, and that the operating rooms will increasingly be used for day surgery. Movements of functions such as urology, car surgery, gastro-surgery and internal medicine will take place later in 2011 and 2012. I have, as mentioned, provided that Health South-East ensures that Oslo University Hospitals have good dialogue with the trade unions, and that decisions and timing of the relocations are clearly communicated both to the trade unions and to the outside world. The health challenges in Oslo are great. We must therefore strengthen the offer to the people. Interaction between hospitals and the municipality will contribute to this. In this way, we can offer services to, for example: sick elderly and people with chronic diseases, with mental health problems and with drug dependence. Action against lifestyle diseases and social health inequalities is also important in the metropolitan area. In this way, we can prevent hospitalisation and improve the health of vulnerable groups. I expressed early on that freed areas at Aker Hospital could be used for an interaction arena between the hospitals in the capital city area and the municipality of Oslo. During this year there has been a dialogue between Health South-East and the Municipality of Oslo to develop an interaction arena at Aker Hospital. The Centre shall provide services located in the interface between the specialist health service and the municipal health service. These are services for people with complex disorders, with chronic disorders, with a need for rehabilitation, with diabetes, with heart and lung problems, with mental problems and drug dependence. In addition, there is a proposal to establish an offer of relief in the final phase of life and a reinforced hospital home with an extended consultation service from the specialist services in hospitals. According to Health South-East, some specialist health services should also continue and remain on Aker from 2013. This is e.g. outpatient services, elective day surgery, rehabilitation and dialysis. Changeovers are necessary. Health services cannot be calm while changing the challenges and needs. At the same time, the transitions are demanding. Health South-East follows the process closely and, if necessary, makes continuous risk assessments as a basis for taking the necessary measures. In business meetings and mission documents, I set both special and general management requirements that are relevant to the changes. The Ministry has regular follow-up meetings with Health South-East to follow up the changes separately. We should not underestimate that work is demanding, but it is also necessary to provide a forward-looking offer to the population within our sustainable framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e421	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, I had expected a clearer feedback on what the Council of State has done to make sure that this process is well enough quality assured. This answer was also marked by the kind of vocabulary that one now experiences more and more when one discusses health challenges – that is, that the Council of State, which owns Health South-East, says that she presupposes that, etc., and when Health South-East is challenged at the same time, Health South-East, which owns Oslo University Hospital and Ahus, that they assume that, etc., etc. This is not satisfactory in relation to the responsibility of the Minister of Health towards Stortinget for the majority of our health business, namely Health South-East. I had expected the Minister of Health to be able to assure Stortinget today that the Minister of Health had taken some action to ensure that this process was sufficiently quality assured. The fact that Health South-East follows the process closely, is quite obvious because one of the directors of Health South-East is the director of Oslo University Hospital. That in itself is a problem precisely because the remaining board then probably won't feel the same responsibility for the process as if one had an independent, independent board. This means that when we now face the largest reorganisation in the Norwegian health care system involving employees and patients, the responsibility seems to be somewhat powdered and not placed, and the Minister of Health is also not clear enough to the Stortinge in relation to the Ministry of Health and the involvement of the Minister of Health in such a significant process. A clear sign of this is that this process is almost not mentioned in the 2011 State budget. In other words, the largest reorganization in the Norwegian health care system involving patients and employees is almost not mentioned in the State budget dealing with the year in which most of these changes are to be made. In the case of waiting times, it has shifted into risk, both because there is a high likelihood of changes in waiting time and that this may have serious consequences. Nevertheless, it was not affected in the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e430	In the corporate model chosen by the Storting for the management of health enterprises, it is that the management goes through the mission document and business meetings that we frame when we see that it is necessary. I was asked if the conversion could be carried out according to budgets being kept and that waiting times should not be increased. I just want to remind you, in terms of budgets, that there has been a clear improvement, so that for 2009 health businesses were on an economic balance. It is the safest and best starting point for continuing to work on improving quality and reducing hospital waiting times. And I have made clear demands that the waiting times should be reduced. They're not going to increase. There has been an increase in waiting times, although we also have to explain that there has been a large increase in patient treatment, but that is not good enough. The waiting times we're going to work to get down. So there are questions about what do I do to ensure that this conversion process goes according to plan? Yes, as I say: through mission documents and business meetings. I have set up much more regular meetings with Health South-East, just to follow this process, follow up deviations, and also these reports that are seen in following up deviations, in order to be able to adjust and implement measures and ensure that this happens. It is not that responsibility is powdered, but it is a responsibility at each level. That is why Oslo University Hospital also has a great responsibility for the implementation of its own conversion process. It's a big business – that's true enough – but still you can't discharge responsibility at any level – neither do I.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e439	This interpellation shows that, within the specialist health management system, we use this platform for health policy debate. The capital process is based on the aggregation of former regional health establishments in the south and east. This was done in order to improve the optimal use of resources and the lack of coordination. There was insufficient coordination of investment projects across regions, and there was a lack of consistency between treatment bases, for example: by that 60 pst. of the patients of the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital came from Health East, while the hospital belonged to Health South. It was important for the assessment behind the merger that better coordination in the south-east could lead to better dissemination of hospital services in the country, too. It was also stressed that research should be less fragmented and better coordinated. Overall, a merger was considered to be a better and more accurate use of resources. The result would benefit all regional health businesses. As I remember, such a series of thoughts was not disputed by the regional enterprises concerned before the merger. The new regional enterprise has implemented a comprehensive strategic process and has organised itself in so-called hospital areas. Conversion into professional organisations is in itself demanding. It doesn't get any easier when four of the original hospitals are also university institutions. The complexity is further enhanced by the continuation of day-to-day operations during the change work and the loss of quality in the medical treatment is unacceptable for a shorter or longer period of time. The interpellant has raised a major issue, and I will have to limit my contribution to selected policy assessments. I choose to relate comments to the strategic direction of the capital process, to the understanding of the process and to the relationship between the capital process and the cooperation reform. In my understanding, the main intervention in the capital process is a geographical collection of national and regional specialist health services in one place and continued specialist health services at the local hospital level at other locations in the capital. I believe this is the right main act for future good offers both in terms of national and regional functions, and in terms of local hospital functions. Given this, the next logical link will be to recognise the complexity of the process, and thus the need for competence for safe implementation. A weakness in my opinion at the time is that we count what is easy to count, and that we easily calculate risk based on certain number sizes. Material investment costs such as construction are easy to count in dollars, and we have detailed quality assurance with an indication of statistical uncertainty before we adopt the projects. When we come to development projects dealing with knowledge and people, we lack such simple numbers, and therefore quality assurance and uncertainty calculations are much more difficult. It should call for considerable humility and a high level of knowledge about the management of competences in our time. I observe in my everyday life that leadership that gets this done well involves the employees and acknowledges that the department management has to participate as a premiscuous provider towards management, and as a link from top management to the tens of thousands of employees who meet the patients one by one. It also requires an open and secure culture that produces and acts on good risk analysis. The Capital Process is also an opportunity to implement the Cooperation Reform. It may increase the complexity of the process because the municipality should be a fully-fledged partner, but it is easier to find good solutions when the organisation is formed than later when it has sat down. Here, regional enterprises and local authorities have joint commitments to their care area and their inhabitants, and I expect that the task will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e452	I must say that I do not know myself so well in the description of reality that the Minister of Health and Health came into his reply to the interpellant, who should otherwise have thanked for addressing this important matter. I also propose, in the beginning, that I remember well the decision taken in Stortinget earlier this year to close Aker University Hospital, and that the decision was taken with the votes of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. So a process has been started. When the Minister of Health and Welfare, and, to the extent that the representative of Health is right now, cleverly avoids the risk analysis that I am dealing with here, I am concerned. This risk analysis has been developed in such a way that seven issues have been identified. It has been suggested that there is a potential cause and justification for the problems that have arisen and their consequences. It has also been estimated how likely the problems will arise and how serious the consequences will be. For parameter No 1, emergency preparedness in phase-out and phase-in of patient flows, the report suggests that patients associated with Aarhus could be sent to Oslo University Hospital for error, and that there will be a reduction in emergency preparedness, which the report suggests will have very serious consequences. Parameter No 2 is an increase in waiting lists. The consequences will be a temporary reduction in treatment provision, an extension of waiting time and any delay. The probability that this will happen is great, and the consequences are serious, it says in the report. Parameter No 3: Lack of continuity in patient treatment could lead to temporary reduced treatment provision and continuity, perceived insecurity in patients, patients may fall out of the treatment system and loss of good cooperation. The probability of this is moderate. The consequences will be serious. Then it's the working environment parameter and the load on key personnel. This will lead to poor working conditions and increased sick leave. The likelihood of this happening is high and the consequences are very serious according to this report. I will proceed to the cost control and implementation costs parameter. This could lead to increased costs due to the need for reserve capacity during the phase-out and phase-in period. This will lead to increased wage costs to replace/additional key personnel and professional competence, especially during the phase-out and phase-in period and reduced capacity. The probability of this happening is great, and the consequences are very serious. I am concerned when the Minister of Health still gives assurances that this will go so well, because there is nothing to suggest that this process is going well, and that it is under control. So it's about shutting down the only hospital in the east of Oslo that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have adopted. It is therefore to be done within the ‘free hospital choice’ scheme by allying with the municipal health services and the fixed doctors to channel patients to Ahus. Finally, I just want to ask, how could this happen? How could this process be started without a clear political desire to do so? After all, there are many representatives, not least from the Workers' Party, and especially from Oslo, who have expressed strong scepticism, and there is definitely no local desire not to start this process, to stop Aker University Hospital or to carry out the other process. The responsibility of the government for the overall governance of the health care system has not been removed by the establishment of health regions and businesses. That is why the Minister of Health and Health has a big task to do here in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e475	As the interpellant has pointed out, it is particularly important to ensure that patient safety and the quality of the overall supply are taken into account in other aspects of such a process. Serious concerns have been raised regarding some parts of the functional distribution. Health South-East reduced in 2009 a regional sample to assess the functional distribution of car surgery, which presented its recommendation in the spring of 2010. It has been consulted, and all interested parties, inter alia: The Norwegian medical association, the specialist committee for surgery and general surgery, and the Norwegian car surgery association, have expressed their opinion. They are clearly negative to move the car surgery from Aarhus to Oslo University Hospital. It was just Oslo University Hospital that was positive. I have become aware that, without the knowledge or approval of the Board of Directors on the initiative of Oslo University Hospital, a new sample was set up to assess the surgery in the capital city area, and where Oslo University Hospital proposes to close the department for car and torac surgery at Aarhus and move it to Oslo University Hospital. This is believed to have a significant negative impact on the health provision of the Akershus population and on Aarhus, which from 1 January 2011 will be the largest district hospital in Norway. It is clear from the Health South-East Governing Council in 2008 that a district hospital should have uniform responsibilities for its population, including normal specialist health services and emergency services. The reason why it is considered irresponsible to remove this offer from Ahus is not only the effect on car surgery, but also the consequences for other patient groups. At Ahus, the car and torac surgery is organized in one and the same department. The 2010 cancer report states that Aarhus will continue to perform this lung cancer surgery in the new uptake area. If the paper surgery at Aarhus is removed, the thoracic surgery is also discontinued, which means that there is a lack of surgical service for the entire pulmonary patient group. The department also provides services to many other patient groups, such as: renal disease, diabetic patients, wound patients and patients with burns. In addition, the department has support function for many other hospital departments. In addition, the department provides service to all hospital wards for life-threatening bleeding, such as gynecological complications, birth complications, trauma, etc. It has been established that Aarhus should be a trauma emergency hospital and be able to relieve Oslo university hospitals for trauma patients. The Hearing Officers therefore believe that centralisation to Oslo University Hospital will result in poorer patient care with the transfer of patients between Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus. It will be a heavy burden for patients and lead to a costly and very demanding logistics. Furthermore, they believe that there are likely to be negative effects on patient services, patient logistics, reputation and economics, and that it is considered a risk in relation to dealing with an extended range of admissions from 2011 – and it is serious. Ahus was put into service two years ago. Substantial investments have been made in both the radiological department and in operational departments for full car and torac surgery. In the event of the closure of the department, the Hearing Officers consider that Aarhus will also lose the status of a training hospital for a number of specialties in specialised medical training. It will mean impaired medical recruitment and a weathering of research, and it will be incompatible with the status of a university hospital in the long term. We do not know of any hospital, either in Norway or in Europe, of this magnitude that does not have car or torac surgery competence available on a daily basis. The Hearing Officers believe that if it is finally decided to close that service, it will significantly weaken both the emergency medical supply and the overall health supply of the population in Akershus. It can't be accepted by the right. I would like to ask the Council of State to follow up on this matter and to take a good look at the proposal for the closure of Ahus' surgery and the consequences it will have for the patients, and to ensure that the total health supply to the Akershus population is maintained. This is the Minister of Health's responsibility and nobody's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e496	This is an important interpellation. Thank you to the interpellant for traveling it! Many people in this part of our country are heavily involved. The debate on the capital process has been high in many camps in recent months. Six months ago, the Christian People's Party leader, Dagfinn Høybråten, said that this process seems to be going against a collapse. We hear today the Council of State say everything goes right, and she's not worried about it. After the summer vacation we could read a statement from the trade union in Oslo University Hospital, where they, among other things, said the following: ‘The hospitals have chosen to carry out the transition of personnel in a way that the Trade Union and several employee organisations cannot stand behind’. They also say that the transition process is not coordinated and synchronised so that employees can have a necessary overview of the future for their own job and tasks before they are forced to decide whether it is appropriate to apply for a job at Aarhus. The protection officer at Aker Hospital said a short time ago that many have to change jobs, but no one knows who has to go. Many people also say that the process is moving too fast, as many people have been involved here, and that there is a lack of money to implement. Perhaps the most serious is the risk analysis that shows that Oslo and Akershus will get longer cows and worse treatment capacity at Aarhus. Is this not a sign that more time is needed, that the uncertainty is too great to implement the process as early as 1 January next year? That's my question. Now it's not just in the Oslo region that there's created insecurity in the hospital sector. In several counties we read every day about insecurity and proposals for closures, such as hospitals, departments, emergency or food supplies. Yesterday we woke up to the morning news from the NRK where the representative Erling Sande from the Senterpartiet said that he would not take re-election if the local hospital in Nordfjordeid were closed. He believes that the supply of food and emergency is the very support of the hospital. Not enough – he also questioned the central party’s participation in the government if they were not heard at this point. The other day I received an e-mail from one of the employees at Nordfjordeid Hospital, who said the following: «Now it is just before the local hospital on Nordfjordeid is a fairy tale. That's really terrible what's going on, and the worst part is that new proposals on how to organise food supply are not being evaluated financially. You add up to a strong follow-up service and gynecologists who are going to drive back and forth 2 hours a day to the Förde every day. What must this not cost?" The population perceives that the hospital is about to be closed, security disappears. The North Fjord Council says that a further sub-plan for the closure of several health services at Nord Fjordeid Hospital could lead to the hospital being closed when the local hospital functions are to be addressed in the context of the national health and care plan. Another example is the hospital at Stord. There people say that they feel helpless and uncertain about the future. They call what's happening, for an organized descent from Health Fonna, a process that they say has gone on for a long time. All the municipalities in East Agder, another example, will fight to keep a full hospital in Arendal. I noticed the answer from the Council of State instead of the interpellant in the case of Aker Hospital. The Government's response is that in Aker Hospital, several functions will be moved out after 2010. There's going to be more day surgery. There will be an interaction arena at Aker gradually. In other words, it will no longer be a hospital as we define hospitals today. That's what's already happened to a lot of other hospitals under the Stoltenberg government, that you take one function after another, and eventually there will be outpatient day surgery or other things, and then the hospital will be closed down as a hospital. And we are not here in the Stortinget who have said that no local hospital should be laid down. It is, in fact, the government that has said, and it is still in the state budget for 2011. Then I think you should be able to say that this is what you are doing. But at least there is an enormous insecurity out there and going now, when regional health businesses control these processes entirely on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e530	I think it's a very important and good, legitimate interpellation that's traveled here today by the representative Höie, and, perhaps a little in contrast to him, I also think the Health Council gave us information that was more accurate than before, and that also brought our knowledge here in the Stortinget further. There are, however, a few things that I think there is reason to dwell on, and that lie in the problem that the representative Höie has raised about proper implementation, whether there is a proper transfer of so many patients. The most important point I want to raise is what Oslo University Hospital says when they explain their plans. I was, among other things, at a recent meeting of the Oslo Medical Association where they presented how they will implement the process, and where they require investments in the amount of SEK 10–15 billion in the coming years on the main Ullevål – what is now called Kirkevägen – and also the Riksen and what is called Gaustad, but primarily Ullevål. And when they describe their plans for moving functions from Aker, among other things. on Ullevål, it is assumed that large investments will take place with new buildings on Ullevål, which these 10 to 15 billion involve. It is a little difficult here to understand that approach from the big point of view, because it has been so clear that health expenditure in the Oslo area was wanted to be saved, and that there are investments in other areas in the country that are now prioritised in the case of hospitals. I see, when you draw this map, that in some of the things that the Health Council now mentioned, which are to be moved from Aker to Ullevål in the coming years, there are also the assumptions about large investments in Ullevål's area, so what I think is important to go into, is how this distribution between Ullevål and Aker etc. shall be done. Then there might be reason to clarify a little bit in relation to the representative Peter N. Myhre mentioned in his post. What was discussed here at the Stortinget in May was a proposal from the Progress Party by the majority in the Minutes, which was also included in that majority. That is why I think the approach of the representative, Höie, is also very important and constructive here today, because it is about how to implement this process in a proper manner, how to assemble highly specialised services properly, and how to ensure that the impact of the merger in Health South-East as the Stortinget did in 2008. And if you're talking about bureaucratic vocabulary, both Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet and Aker, all three hospitals, are closed in their former form – they're now called Kirkeveien and Gaustad or something like that and Sinsenveien – the three locations of Oslo University Hospital. It is true that the biggest changes take place at Aker, but there are also major changes in the other hospitals, and that is what was described by a very large majority on Stortinget in relation to that representative proposal, and it is a broad shift of all the three hospitals involved. But that's all the reason, as also the representative Myhre did, to focus on what's happening in relation to Aker Hospital, and there's two points I would like to mention there. First of all, it's important to take a closer look at what's going to be on Aker of hospital functions now, because you don't get the 10 to 15 billion to build it up on Ullevål, and what's going to be in the long term on Aker. Now, happily, the Health Council said that there are important functions that are now at the hospital, which will be there after 2013. Then it's important to clarify it as much as possible, down to a concrete level, so that those who now work in Aker, and the patients, know what they have to do with. The second is about the interaction arena to develop, new important services for the entire population of Oslo, which is a very good grant and a very great improvement in relation to what the Storting has put its finger on: health differences in Oslo, how jobs towards chroniclers, lifestyle diseases, etc. I want to say one thing about how to get space on Ullevål for the collection of functions there, that I think you also have to sort the other way, from Ullevål to Aker, in terms of efforts in relation to lifestyle diseases, in terms of these interaction tasks. This should apply both from Ullevål to Aker and from Lovisenberg and the Diakon home to Aker, in order to bring together the interaction functions, the lifestyle disease tasks of Aker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e542	I am essentially speaking to stress what the Minister of Health said in his statement, that the basis for the process we are now involved in with regard to the merging of hospitals in the Oslo region is the decision to merge Health South and Health East. It was a decision that was made by a broad majority in Stortinget. Furthermore, it was probably not mentioned, but we have invested around 20 billion kroner, I believe it should be, in a new, modern hospital, one of the most beautiful in the Nordic region – Ahus. The process to be implemented has also been taken into account. This is, quite correctly as has been said, one of the most complicated public conversion projects being carried out here in the country. And we assume, as the Council of State also said, that this should be done in a proper way in relation to patient treatment. It shall not affect the quality of patient care. It shall also be properly implemented in relation to the personnel transferred to Aarhus. So these things have to be grounded. And the risk analyses that come up now are very important to do just that. It is very important to stress that this must be justified and, if necessary, to correct the price, to correct the pace and to correct the use of resources in order to achieve this properly. And I feel confident that the Council of State will take good care of that responsibility in the way she underlined, namely that this is being closely followed up. Then I want to say – and that's why I asked for the word – that this is not just a matter for the capital. This is a matter of great importance to the health, South-East and Inland population in relation to future offers and hospitals. It also has a dimension in relation to national health policies. The specialist healthcare service faces large-scale migration challenges in the coming years. Conversions are being carried out at present that challenge personnel and challenge the quality of patient treatment — continuously. It has, and it will. Therefore, the implementation of this process is of great importance. There are many who follow around the country on how this is being carried out. Therefore, I think any suggestion to stop and not implement this would have major consequences. I believe that the interpellant does not intend to do so, it was not behind it, because it was emphasised that the Right supports the process that is now being carried out. But it's important that it's implemented with good quality. It is also the challenge of the SV: it is implemented in such a way as to ensure the quality of patient treatment in a good way as well as the human resources and the changes facing it. I think that the Health Council gave a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e557	From 1 January 2011, Akershus University Hospital shall be able to offer a good offer to 160,000 new patients from Alna Township and from the Follo Municipalities, in addition to what they give today. We know that Aarhus already has challenges for the operation of the new hospital, and that the intake of new patient groups implies an even more demanding situation. As the interpellant has pointed out, it is essential to ensure that this transfer takes place in a way that ensures patient safety and the quality of the health service. The Executive Director has pointed out to the Management Board that the recruitment situation is critical. The risk of transferring patients from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus was upgraded from yellow to red as late as October 1. It is positive that more applications have now been made for the posts to be filled, but they still need to be processed before new staff can be in place. The final distribution of medical shelters is also not fully understood. Oslo University Hospital does not submit its final crew plans until 15 October. It is obvious that this part of the process should be better coordinated, but this probably also reflects how demanding the transition has been with the timeframes set. In my written question to the Council of State in August this year, I just asked the Council of State to explain the status of the staffing process at Akershu University Hospital, because much uncertainty has aired the population at this time. The Council of State tried to calm down in its reply of 31 August, and I quote: ‘It is important that professional environments do not deteriorate as a result of uncertainty about the future. At the same time, we need to ensure that the hospitals that are actually to take over and treat patients are properly and competent.’ The recruitment process is not just about getting enough people. It is essential that new personnel are adequately trained. Health professionals should be able to find themselves in new positions and establish new cooperation relationships, procedures should be incorporated, and necessary procedures should be in place to provide patients with a qualitatively good treatment. We know that the staff of the enterprises concerned are under great pressure in this demanding transition, and health care businesses consider it to be a risk of increased sick leave. A sound working environment is essential to ensure that patients receive good treatment. I want to challenge the Council of State to comment on how health businesses ensure a good working environment within the scarce time horizon we now have. It is in the somatic treatment areas that the transfer of patients is critical. For chronically ill patients in need of follow-up over time, this is a particularly vulnerable situation. For them, the continuity of the relationship with healthcare professionals is very important for them to feel safe. It is vital that someone knows them, their needs and their history. I therefore ask the Council of State to explain what measures have been taken specifically for these patients. I would also like to point out the importance that work on research and education can be carried out as part of the new activity at Akershu University Hospital. The University of Oslo has signaled that they primarily want to maintain tasks related to the education of medical students at the Oslo University Hospital and do not transfer them to Aarhus in line with the transfer of personnel. This may be unfortunate both for the research environment at Aarhus and for the teaching of medical students. An important justification for the capital process has just been the need to strengthen research, and thus the quality of treatment provision. For the population of Follo, it is also of great importance that the planned further development of ski hospitals, subject to Aker University Hospital, can take place. Finally, I would like to stress the importance that the performance of this project must be linked to the successful and sound conversion of the offer to patients in Follo and Alna, and not to the specific dates or the need for individual operators for professional positioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e584	First, I want to thank the representative Bent Höie for a very important interpellation. This is a debate that has major regional implications, and it is a debate that shows the major challenges of implementing the capital process. It is also a debate that shows the security of the population. When you're discussing health policy, people's security is one of the most important keywords that you should be busy with. For my part and for the Christian People's Party, it is also clear that the hospital reform is a key element when discussing the capital process, because the hospital reform is perhaps one of the foundations of all the conflicts you see around. One sees that there is a lack of political governance, in the worst case, that a well-hidden behind directors and hospital government instead of taking political responsibility. Many of the decisions will be taken — at least in secret — by bureaucrats rather than politicians. Another challenge that you see in many places is the ongoing representation. One sees that there are directors who are directors of several local health care agencies and also like to have other positions in health care agencies. It is also a major challenge for one to have large regions. Instead, it was shown that there was broad political support to merge Health South and Health East. But the Christian People's Party was against that process, precisely because we saw the concerns of too large regions. This brings me to some of what I want to air for the Council of State today: the consequences of the capital process are great for the whole country. At the Southland Hospital, it has been a misalignment of over 100 million. kr has a deficiency. And it looks like everything around the capital process has got focus away from that region. In the city, state councils have been able to focus on what is happening in the capital. For us in the South, it looks as if the Council of State has forgotten the Southland Hospital. At least it is totally incomprehensible that the Council of State can accept to sit still and look at what is happening in the South. But I think it's one of the consequences of the reform. I challenge the Council of State on a written question a year ago as to whether the strategy plan for Sørlanden Hospital was still firm, because there is a time and time again a signal that functions are proposed to move from Arendal Hospital to Kristiansand Hospital. Governments confirmed the firmness of the strategy plan, and it has also been clear that she wants to straighten out the division by financial means – something that is good. Still, we see that something else is happening. There are still more than 100 million missing. kr, and population insecurity is greater than ever. It shows what's happening today, because today it's added to a torch in Arendal. I bought 12,000 torches. It shows some of the big engagement that's in the field, and it shows some of the consequences that this thing has. In the South there are suggestions to move the children's ward, there are suggestions to move the neurology from Arendal to Kristiansand. Medical development is unlikely to be fast, and to follow it, to get the best offer, a lot of time also needs to look at changes, see if it's possible to assemble functions to get a better offer. That's exactly what I thought was right. But when the people, and politicians, feel like they don't see the visions behind the different hospitals, don't see the health, but feel that they're moving bit by bit, it creates insecurity. It should be a matter of concern to the Council of State that the hospital management at the Southern Hospital is unable to implement changes, processes, without ending up with a torch. It's about the process, it's about communication and it's about creating security. So the capital process is a process that has economic implications for other parts of the country and also has political implications for other parts of the country. I would like the Council of State to receive a signal from South Africa. Now she gets it tonight by showing many thousands of people her commitment. But the signal is that we don't see her on Southland. We feel that in the middle of the chaos with the capital process, she forgets the South. The policies that are being pursued create people's insecurity, and it should be a wake-up call when processes are carried out and they end up with torches. It shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e599	Before Bent Höie gets the floor: the President has registered that a few representatives have asked for the floor for the second time, and the President will therefore make it clear that there is only one opportunity to have one post in the interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e602	I would just like to stress that the Right is positive about the implementation of the capital process and has a very strong desire that that process be carried out in such a way that one succeeds, that one get a better patient offer in the capital area, that one get freed up resources for better patient treatment, for more research and for investing in new medical technical equipment. What concerns, however, is that one feels that the response of the Council of State — and especially the first main response — is not exactly marked by the fact that there is ‘hands on’ in this process, perhaps on the contrary ‘hands off’ in relation to the involvement of the Council of State in what I would call the greatest migration in the Norwegian health system that affects direct patients and employees. It worries because the consequences of not succeeding in this process are very, very large, and I would expect the Council of State to be very much involved in the concrete assessments in the most central areas. The council said in its reply that one had had several meetings, that one followed up deviations and adjusted the process along the way. Nevertheless, I do not think the answer was that one had taken over the risk analyses that are now on the basis, for example. questions about waiting time. For the term ‘wait time’, something quite serious is that, as it says, the consequences of increased waiting time for patients – which is estimated to be very likely – are serious. A very central question was then raised by the representative, Mr Bøhler, namely what is stated in several documents and by several of the leaders in this process, that one requires investments of the order of 10 to 15 billion kroner. Many then wonder what the investment need will be in consequence and whether it needs to be covered by the operations of Health South-East. If it is the position of the Council of State, it will have major consequences for the other local health establishments in Health South-East. If it is the opinion of the Council of State that these investments are to be covered nationally, they will have a significant impact on the other regional health enterprises in the economy of Norway. It would have been interesting to hear the Council's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e611	And that's probably going to be possible, because the next speaker is the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e614	First of all, I would like to say that there has been an interesting debate that has also led far beyond the capital, yes down to Sørlanden, and I can assure you that I have not forgotten Sørlanden. I had a conversation with our biggest representative from Aust-Agder last morning, and had it not been for the fact that I am in Stortinget today and tomorrow, I had been and met the torch this evening. It shows the great commitment – there is no doubt about it – and it is also shown in the Storting when these matters are debated. I just have to say first that I am pleased that there is support for the implementation of the capital process, because it is absolutely important that there is support for such large-scale conversions. And then I also realize that you can become anxious when there's a lot in the media about things that can go wrong. Peter N. Myhre reads from a risk analysis. Yes, fortunately, a risk analysis has been carried out — fortunately, such risk analyses are carried out. They are not done because you have to sit and wait for what is happening, but precisely because you have to be able to take action so that it does not happen, what lights up red according to this analysis. When it comes to the Progress Party, it's not like you've been involved in this. So asking a lot of questions and kind of asking on the side line, yeah, that's an honest point of view, but then you have to say that's what you're actually doing. I would say so that I would warn against believing that we can leave all hospitals as before. That would be the first and greatest betrayal of Norwegian patients, if we could think that anything could be like before. We can just go in and look at the manning challenges we have in the future. If we had managed to have full staff for all functions in all hospitals, Norway could choose to spend the money on it. But this will ultimately focus on how much personnel and how much professional environment you can have in the individual places. I stand by the fact that we are not going to lay down a local hospital. But I just came, last week, from an OECD meeting, a health minister's meeting, in Paris. It is not just in Norway that we are working on setting up hospitals to provide life support. You have that challenge everywhere. What, in some contexts, might seem like a cutting off of a sector, is actually what we're doing; it's a big decentralization, because we're going to need more decentralised patient treatment in the future than what we have today. When it comes to the capital process, I promise that I will follow it – now I see my time going out – very carefully. It's important, because, as Bent Höie also says, it's the biggest transformation process in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e627	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e643	According to SIRUS, there are between 8600 and 12600 injecting drug addicts in Norway. Heroin is the most commonly injected drug. Compared to other European countries, Norway is high on the statistics on overdose deaths in the population: in 2008, there were 263 drug deaths in Norway. Studies show that the typical, most insistent drug addict has long-standing and extensive problems associated with his dependence. They have poor physical and mental health. Most of them started their teenage career, and some of the reasons why they ended up in drug addiction can be traced back to adulthood. About a third have not grown up with their parents. 70 pst. of which they have had learning and mastering problems in school, and almost 40 pst. has experienced themselves as a bullying victim while they went to school. Psychiatric injuries are also common. The relationship with family and relatives is often broken. Many have lost care and contact with their own children. They have little or no experience of working life, and they have consistently low or poor education. Many of the people in this group live without a permanent residence. The majority of the homeless, even as much as 59 pst, depend on drugs. Many severely needy drug addicts experience a mutual ‘tiredness’ in their encounter with the auxiliaries. Social services and specialist health services often do not give priority to them, and they themselves have few or no expectations of the system. Their lives are characterized by chaos and an ever-increasing self for money and drugs, and they have difficulty dealing with hourly and municipal opening hours. Several of the existing services do not provide sufficient facilities for individual drug addicts. The requirement-specification system for the purchase of places locks the facilities and, in particular, the treatment services, to an extent that they are too rigid and general approaches. The offer is made on the basis of available capacity, general decisions or accepted cost levels, often resulting in a less satisfactory offer for the individual. I must also mention in this context that today's government actually allows treatment facilities in private, non-profit institutions to stand unused while the queues are growing. This primarily affects addicts. But of course it also affects the voluntary organisations operating the institutions. The attitude of public authorities to produce all services themselves prevents non-profit actors from providing services. Examples are detoxification and LAR services. In addition, tendering prevents continuity, provides little predictability, and long-term investment in quality measures and buildings becomes too risky. Solid and heavy environments of competence are disintegrating. This is not a new debate in Stortinget. We know that the situation in this sector is critical. The Christian People's Party has taken the initiative of a compromise in the Storting, on which we hope all the other parties want to join. In that way we had a nice debate the other day. We all agree that ideal actors must be guaranteed predictable and good framework conditions for the benefit of patients. The Stoltenberg Committee was to assess how the most needy drug addicts could get better help. They should also assess whether heroin-assisted treatment could be part of the offer. In the report, the sample writes the following: ‘Methadone, buprenorphine and heroin are all addictive substances. They do not cure dependence.’ Nevertheless, a majority of the sample suggests that the country should include the monitored intake of heroin in the drug-assisted rehabilitation of heroin addicts, i.e. in the LAR system. For me, it is simply incomprehensible that the sample chooses to promote a measure that does not achieve what should be the ultimate objective, namely the absence of drug use. The government has not concluded in this case at this stage. LAR is currently the most comprehensive of individual interventions in drug treatment and includes over 5,000 clients. I am concerned about the increasing number of addicts covered by the LAR scheme, and I fear that LAR will take over drug-free treatments. It is important that the LAR should also provide comprehensive treatment beyond the medication itself and that the LAR programmes be seen as an instrument to improve the user’s ability to receive treatment. There are very many, including some organisations working with addicts, who still say that the drug treatment in the LAR is the most prominent, and that very many do not receive follow-up other than that they receive the drug. In my opinion, LAR should be offered primarily when drug-free treatment over a long period of time has proved useless. Freedom of rest should be reintroduced as the main objective of the LAR, believes the Christian People's Party. It is necessary to reform the treatment system linked to LAR, including: a comprehensive social policy approach and stronger follow-up. In my opinion, you should not start without this in place. For addicts who are part of the LAR programme, provision must also be made for suitable housing, a form of activity based on their own resources and interests, and also financial advice. In my opinion, people who are part of the LAR programme should be at the institution in the start-up of the programme. A more stringent control of the side-abuse of LAR users and the prescription of drugs by doctors to LAR users is necessary. We also know that polydrug use is a problem in the LAR system by supplementing methadone with other drugs. Such polydrug use obviously hampers the achievement of the purpose of the scheme. The Christian People's Party's view is that women who become pregnant during LAR treatment must be closely followed up both medically and socially. In the interests of the child, coercive treatment must be available in the same way as for pregnant women on drugs. My point with, among other things, The aim of this interview is that the purpose of drug treatment, including with LAR, must be rehabilitation and abstinence. The new government regulation on LAR, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, no longer mentions treatment and drug-free treatment among the objectives of the scheme. What it says is that ‘increased quality of life’ is a goal. Another objective is ‘improvement of the optimal level of mastering and function’, as well as reduction of injuries and overdose rates. I believe, of course, that these purposes are also important effects of the LAR, but I believe that society has a duty to help highly addicted people into abstinence, not only in controlled drug dependence. Even recently, I have heard about addicts who are refused treatment because they do not want to accept LAR treatment. In other words, they cannot choose to become restless. That is why my main question to the Council of State today is: Does the Council of State think that drug-freedom should continue to be/should be a primary objective of drug policy in Norway? In this case, how will the government make this objective visible in the various actions in the field?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e680	Interpellanten Bavøy addresses a very important topic. Let me start by saying that I am pleased with the commitment that this representative and that of the Storting generally show to drug addicts and their situation. The government’s overall objective is to reduce the negative impacts of drug use on individuals and society. Alcohol and drug policies embrace both population-oriented, group-based and individualised prevention measures, as well as treatment and rehabilitation of people with problem drug use and drug dependence. Through restrictive drug policies, extensive prevention work, especially for young people, we have good reason to claim that the extent of drug problems in our country is lower than would have been without these measures. At the same time, we know that a number of people are developing serious drug problems. This has different causes, but the problems are, as the interpellant also said, often complex and often developed early in life. The extent of adverse social and health consequences, including disease and accidents, increases as drug consumption increases. This is why it is an objective to help reduce the use of drugs. Drug policy is about being able to operate with multiple objectives at the same time. It is important to see the individual’s situation and the underlying problems. It is assumed that the objectives and measures are not contradictory but complementary. A short-term and long-term perspective is also needed. This highlights the need for a practical and realistic approach in the meeting of drug addicts rather than meeting them with ideal demands and goals that may seem totally unattainable to many. The important thing is that we set realistic goals for the individual, that everyone who needs it and wants it will get help, and that abstinence could be a long-term goal for most people. Harm reduction measures could signal society's respect for the user and his or her various health problems. This may in turn have a positive effect on the motivation of the user to do something about drug use or addiction itself. The drug addict must be offered help, without abstinence being a condition for getting the help. In the treatment of people we must therefore think like old Hippocrates: sometimes doctors, often relieve and always comfort. Today, harm-reduction measures are a natural and integrated part of the response apparatus for people with drug problems. The idea is to limit the additional harm caused by drug abuse to individual users, public health and the general picture of the disease. It is important to ensure that harm reduction measures are well and effectively integrated with other services. The Health Directorate recently presented an example collection which shows in a good way the content of so-called lowthreshold health measures. The immediate objective is better health and a more worthwhile life, including prevention of overdoses. We know that such measures can be an important link to other relief measures. In this respect, harm reduction is not an expression of resignation, but a realistic approach to individuals in a very vulnerable situation. I have great respect for the daily efforts of competent staff in the care of drug users to face these challenging tasks. Interpellanten Davøy calls for measures to promote drug-free treatment. Based on the patient’s and the user’s status, for the vast majority of people, the release of drugs will be the ideal and long-term goal. I believe that both the municipal services and the specialist health service are the basis for their work. The aim of public health work is several years of good health for the individual and reduced social health differences in the population. The systematic differences in health are due to an unfortunate distribution of resources in society. Therefore, the government's aim is to balance social differences and facilitate a more inclusive society. Municipalities have a comprehensive responsibility for those with drug dependence. Services may include advice and guidance, low-threshold health measures, housing, follow-up in housing, outreach work, social and labour rehabilitation and work at individual level. Services are provided both before, during and after stay in the specialist health service or prison. With regard to multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, I would like to state that today we have a wide and diverse range of treatment services consisting of a range of outpatient services, daily services as well as services where medicines are also included in the treatment. At the same time, we must recognise that the waiting time for treatment is still too long. Many drug addicts do not experience a well-connected course of patients. We need to coordinate more services and adapt them to the complex needs of drug addicts. This is a matter I have asked regional health companies in this year's mission document to make sure that they are correct. The main focus is psychosocial treatment, where drugs have little place in the treatment of the drug problem itself. Even in LAR, the rehabilitation part is very important – the drug is used as an assisting part in an overall offer. Medicinal products may also be relevant for some in the withdrawal phase, where it has been shown that the use of medicinal products contributes to more people being able to carry out the detoxification process. LAR is one of several possible treatment options for heroin addicts, but represents a relatively small proportion of total efforts in multidisciplinary specialised treatment. A total of 23 100 persons were referred to multidisciplinary specialised treatment in 2009, and in the same period 475 were included in the LAR. The objective of LAR is to help people who are dependent on heroin to improve their quality of life and to help individuals to change their life situation in the best possible way. The aim is also to reduce the harm caused by dependence and the risk of overdose. Finally, I would like to point out that the appropriations for the drug field have been increased by 1 billion. kr compared to the level at which this government joined in 2005. We have also provided a general increase in activity in regional health enterprises and a growth in the local economy. I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus that we will continue to bet on the drug field in the years to come. The Government’s escalating plan for the drug field shall expire in 2010. In order to continue strengthening and developing services, the government has decided to extend the escalation plan by two years. This is in line with the Government Platform, which states that the government will use the next few years to systematically build capacity and competence in prevention, awareness-raising, treatment, rehabilitation and post-care. The Stoltenberg Committee delivered its report in June. The proposals cover prevention and treatment measures. As is well known, the sample was also asked to assess whether heroin-assisted treatment should be included in the treatment provision and is divided into its setting on this particular issue. The government has not taken a decision on the proposals. In order to ensure broad dialogue with users, relatives, disciplines and municipalities before the case is brought before the Stortinget, the report has been sent to public consultation in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and Police, with the consultation deadline for the new year. In order to ensure a thorough review of the report of the Stoltenberg Committee and the escalation plan for the drug field, the government has decided to present its own report on drug policy during 2011. The follow-up to the consultation will be part of the preparation of the notification. In doing so, the government wants a comprehensive review of the drug field and invites stakeholders to participate actively in the hearing and in the work on a new wholesale notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e723	I thank the Council of State for the answer and confirm back that the Council of State shows a strong commitment to addicts. I agree with the Council of State that prevention is incredibly important, and I am pleased that, after all, we in Norway have much less drug use than we see in other comparable countries. It is also important that we have a realistic feed for all the measures we have. I'm very pleased that the Council of State says that drug-freedom is a long-term goal for most people. I agree. I also agree that abstinence must never be a condition for getting help. All people shall receive help. We've seen that not everyone is able to quit drugs, and a lot of people can spend a long, long time doing this. In fact, at the same time, some people experience rejection of treatment if they want drug-free treatment. I could imagine the Council of State commenting on this, if she thinks this is right, given that the patient is actually a space of rights. This has happened. I am also pleased that the escalation plan will be extended. There was a political debate on this in ours – I believe to remember – and it is very good that we also get our own news about drug policy. When it comes to the state budget, we're going to get back to it. But I don't think there's a lot of money going on in relation to the challenge we're facing, that's that more than 4,000 Ruspacers are in line. So finally a little bit about this with harm-reduction measures. It is clear that harm-reduction measures are important, but they must not be so many that in many ways it is what patients get, and then they are no longer coming. It doesn't help to have a detoxification unit if we don't have the opportunity to send the patient on right after the stay there, or to have an open place every night if you can't send the patient on there and then, when the addict is motivated. What is happening today is that the overall treatment – which was also pointed out by the Stoltenberg Committee – is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e736	I just want to stress first that drug addicts are rights-spacers in line with other patients, if it's assessed this way. It is also true that a much larger proportion of those referred to drug treatment were considered as patients with the right to necessary health care. All 85 pst. were assessed as patients with the right to necessary health care. It is difficult for me to stand on the floor of Stortingen and answer if I know that someone has been refused treatment because you would not take LAR treatment. I assume that the treatment that is considered best for the individual in each case is offered. The numbers that I mentioned in terms of the number that are assessed for LAR are very few compared to all those that are inside an auxiliary device in a year. I also very much agree that getting an overall treatment course is absolutely essential for us to succeed in the treatment of drug addicts. For this reason, the various measures — which start with detoxification and have to continue in the auxiliaries — have to be linked. That's a very clear goal. It's gotten better in many places, but I see that this is something that we need to work on if we're going to succeed in getting to the goal. It is important that we have a wide-ranging debate on drug policy overall. There will be a big message in 2011. There may be a long time left, but there are many debates that need to be taken on your way. The Stoltenberg Committee has a number of actions in this way that we want it to be a wide-ranging debate on, and that the government will be very responsive to when it comes to recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e747	Thanks to the representative, Davøy, who addresses an important topic in today’s society — drug problems for many young people and adults. The Council of State answers show that this government takes a large and comprehensive responsibility within the drug field. A government and a state council that has stepped up the stakes by 1 billion. kr more than the inter-pellant party and government did in 2005 show that there is both the capacity and the willingness to make good efforts in this area. Drug supply in the drug field must be diverse. Different actions produce different results and, in particular, there are different needs in this field. We have seen that many of the measures that have been tried over a number of years may not have had the desired results in many areas. It is not that the measures are initially bad or more or less good etc. The main thing is that there are different needs, and there are difficult situations in which both individuals and families live. Treating alcoholics with the distribution of free alcohol from the public is quite illogical, and giving heroin as a treatment to people who are heroin addicts is also illogical. The Health and Welfare Committee has visited many places in Norway. We have been in Sweden, and we were in Switzerland a short time ago, and we have looked at how different measures have worked. I have to say that I've let myself be amazed that we can be so bastant that it and that measure are better than another, because what I've seen on these trips is that different measures have different effects, and I think we have to be open to see what kind of offers are to be given. Not least when we were in Switzerland, we saw in those places where the very, very heavy abusers – who have lived on the streets for years and years and who have taken overdoses, it is disease, etc. - I'll have a good follow-up. But at the same time, of course, they need to be followed up if they are to have heroin-assisted treatment — followed up in relation to an escalation plan and in relation to how to obtain long-term release. They also showed good results, but it is clear that many of these measures are a little strange to us. I have not yet seen that a single measure solves all the challenges in the area. So what is also our challenge is what kind of action to take. When the government now extends the escalation plan by two new years, until 2012, it is also an important signal that we want to look at these challenges further, in order to contribute to better drug treatment. With 100 million. kr extra in the State budget for 2011 and SEK 70 million. to the municipal sector – it is in the municipal sector that we have to do these tasks, where we are close to the addicts, both in terms of school, in terms of jobs, in terms of other social services – what action should be taken, and how should we be able to prevent people from becoming addicted to drugs? Having a restrictive drug policy is important, but it is equally important to have good information campaigns; the consequences of drug use from health problems, etc. But it is clear that restrictive drug policy is also about availability, it is about price, and the measures we are taking will never be popular. If we increase the charge on alcohol, opening hours at restaurants, yes, people don't stand on the street clapping. We also saw that when the smoking law came. People were very negative at first, but no one wants to get back to the way it was before the smoking law. There are such measures that we just have to be tough enough to implement. This is mainly about prevention in municipal provision. It is about good treatment, but not least about a follow-up for those who may have experienced this. It is a shared responsibility, both political and professional, but not least a shared responsibility socially – when we discover that someone in our vicinity is struggling with drug problems. We're all different, we all need tailored offers. That is also why the cooperation reform is coming. How are we going to solve these problems together, and not each of us, either in municipal health care or in specialist health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e762	The representative, Laila Bavøy, addresses an incredibly important issue. We're in many ways at a crossroads. We have more knowledge than ever, and we have more tools than ever. Now it's time to use this knowledge wisely. The Health and Welfare Committee has recently been in Switzerland, where we heard and saw their approach to drugs. The first thing I discovered was that Switzerland had a completely different goal for its decisions than what I personally believe should be the goal. In Switzerland, they were quite clear and honest that their main goal was to remove the drug addicts from parks and squares. Their goal was simply to eliminate the visibility of drug abuse. And the right thing to do is – that's what they've achieved. I continued to see drug users on my hike in Bern, but I never saw large collections where drugs were used openly. I miss the same honesty in Norwegian politics. What's our goal? Do we want to remove sight, or do we want to give people meaningful lives, where the individual can take care of himself? This is an important debate to take before we choose direction. Switzerland has 20,000 heavy drug users. 18 000 of these receive methadone or heroin every day. What should be an offer to the few is now the rule rather than the exception. This simple solution has led to a sharp decline in the need for treatment facilities and the disappearance of more institutions. Freedom was almost not the theme. I don't want such a policy for our drug users. Nine years ago, Portugal decriminalised the possession of up to 10 user doses and drug use. The result has been positive: the number of users has fallen, they have fewer new HIV infections, and fewer doors of overdose, will be able to read in the Evening Post on 9 October. But then I got confused, because in the Anti-Drug magazine we could read something completely different. During their visit to Portugal, they had been told that the number of users had increased, the number of new HIV positives had increased, and the number of overdose deaths had increased. Russ abuse is found worldwide, and the problems and challenges are solved differently. No country has solved this optimally. In Norway, we seem to agree on most aspects of drug use. The Committee has repeatedly supported a description of reality that points out that drug addicts have poor health, poor or lack of housing, lack of work and poor social networks. An overall committee has also found that care is not satisfactory and that it lacks a holistic approach. The Committee has also agreed that the current situation is characterised by excessive waiting times, considerable inequalities, waiting times between measures and lack of post-protection. So then we can see that we agree politically with the reality description, now we have to find the way and the solution. Neither are there the big differences. The report of the Stoltenberg Committee, which is now being consulted, is a good document that describes in a good way the reality, the challenges and the solutions – not much to disagree with there, and I think many will face concrete changes from this report. Heroin distribution was new and unfortunately received all attention. Many other aspects of the report deserve more attention. But fortunately, we will come back to this when the consultation period has expired. The report of the Stoltenberg Committee begins with the following words written by a woman on her situation: «Perhaps it is when there is only life left to lose, and death no longer frightens you, when the rush no longer gives you freedom, but becomes more enemy than a friend – perhaps it is when thoughts begin to search for a way that can give you freedom from what once gave peace and freedom.» I think these words underline the need for and the need to have drug-free treatment as the main priority in the care of drug users in Norway. In the case of low-threshold services to reduce the risk of disease and injury, I also agree with the interpellant that much of this has come in recent years. That's good, and it's been necessary. Nevertheless, I urge that the appropriations for these measures do not go at the expense of those who want to be drug free. As I see it, we have quite a number of good low-threshold services, we have too few detoxification sites, we have a lack of money to use available capacity in the treatment system, and we have a lack of good after-care to remain free. There's a lot to do here!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e808	I will give tribute to the interpellant for once again putting the drug policy on the agenda. It is an area that needs more attention and not least more action. It is positive that the government will now present a major report on drug policy, and the Right will, of course, make a positive contribution in this respect. A better offer for drug addicts and their families is at the top of the Right’s priority list together with mental health protection and rehabilitation. The aim is that people with drug problems and mental disorders should receive a decent and good offer when they need it and are motivated for treatment. The right is also of the opinion that drug-freedom must be a central objective of drug policy. However, when 4,300 people are waiting for treatment for their drug problem and drug addicts experience the greatest increase in waiting time for treatment — an average of 78 days, many are waiting significantly longer, for example. in Health south-east – it does not feel worthy. The vast majority of these also want a restless life. As has been said, both the waiting time and the treatment time for drug treatment are significantly increased during the red-green government. Despite this, they have cut out many treatment sites in private treatment institutions. The co-operation administration has ensured that addicted patient rights are granted in the same way as other patients, but the rights have not been given real substance, as there is a failure at all stages of drug addicts’ supply. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the offer significantly in order to improve its effectiveness. We haven't tried everything in the fight against drugs. It has not been tried to provide drug addicts with proper, comprehensive treatment with rapid help and a range of social interventions and health services. But we must not just repair, we must prevent people from becoming addicted to drugs. We must strengthen the targeted prevention of children and young people. We know that many children living in families affected by social problems, drug addiction and mental disorders have a significantly higher risk of getting drug problems and mental problems. These children need better help. Therefore, the Right has proposed increased appropriations for the follow-up of these children from health and social services. We have also proposed several times increased appropriations for drug treatment, the use of available capacity in private drug institutions, better aftercare, housing and employment measures. We want to ensure faster and better help by providing sufficient funds, so that the escalation plan for the drug field becomes more than words. Those who need it must get help in the day. We need to ensure that a treatment offer is provided immediately after detoxification, so that they are not prescribed for a life on the street pending a treatment site. We will provide drug-dependent treatment services in private drug establishments with free capacity and good quality to ensure faster help and more choice. We want to ensure a better and longer-term provision of aftercare, so that drug addicts receive follow-up after treatment. And we want to escalate low-threshold health services. The drug policy debate has often been dominated by the issue of heroin distribution in the last year. This must be one of the few areas where the problem is launched as a solution. The right considers that the drug addict primarily needs better treatment and not heroin. In our view, it is unacceptable that society should distribute heroin to cover deficiencies in treatment provision. There is often talk of dignity in drug care, and it is often about drug injection rooms and heroin distribution. For the Right, dignity is that drug addicts receive treatment when they need it and are motivated and do not remain in a treatment queue. It's about a good, tailor-made offer, good health care, good aftercare, drug-free treatment, housing and work. An overall concern that sees the whole human being – it's dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e831	I'll give honey to the interpellant to address an important question. Russ policy in its broadest sense is about the whole scale from an active, offensive prevention policy to treatment and, above all, rehabilitation, to providing a good offer – housing, work – after being treated. Here we have great challenges. I am pleased that the government in its draft budget proposes another 100 million. kr for action and that they have, in sum, granted a total of 1 billion. kr during this period of government. But that's not enough, and I have ambitions and hopes that in the years to come, we can still have a rapprochement plan in terms of drug policy. That will be necessary. When I take the word, it's because the interpellant so clearly announces a scepticism, or maybe announces that she is directly opposed, the suspension of heroin-assisted treatment by the Stoltenberg Committee. My starting point and SV's starting point is that we are open to discuss the proposal from the Stoltenberg Committee, we have an open starting point when it is being sent out to the hearing, and we do not put two lines under any answer. Because it's about giving an opportunity, dignity, human dignity to the most seriously ill, the heaviest drug addicts, the chroniclers. I have to say that the committee trip we had to Switzerland – and more people have been involved in it – where we got information about how the treatment worked in Switzerland, what results it gave, at least made an impression on me. What I think it is worth noting is that the evaluations that have been carried out show that those who received this treatment achieved better physical health, better mental health – back to work, integrated with family again, housing. And not least: 5 pst. of those who received the treatment, approximately 1000 people in Switzerland, were also drug free. I feel that the results referred to there are impossible to turn my back on, impossible not to take over and impossible to seriously assess. And as I said at the outset, it's also about – and I think that must be an important dimension of our drug policy – the human dignity of the sickest, the chronically ill, and about having a policy in that area as well. That is why we are open to discuss the proposal that comes from the Stoltenberg Committee. That's our starting point, and we'll get back to that when that report comes in a separate message for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e846	The interpellant addresses an important topic and issue, namely whether or not we are moving away from being a key objective of drug policy. Many express concern that while the offer to those who want to be in active drug use is now getting better and better, the offer to those who want to be drug free is getting worse. The waiting time for detoxification and treatment is increasing and may now be up for six months. The waiting time is associated with a lack of capacity, but it is also about how services are organised and used. One of the problems has been that the build-up of supply in the response chain has taken place with different strengths. While medical treatment has been expanded, the provision of long-term follow-up and rehabilitation in municipalities has not followed the same trend. Capacity developments in detoxification, psychological services and drug-free treatment have not occurred in line with demand. There is too much follow-up in municipalities for those in need of housing and other assistance during rehabilitation. This imbalance in development is one of the factors contributing to waiting times and interruptions in the treatment chain. Drug treatment has gradually grown to become the dominant form of treatment for heroin addicts worldwide. Interpellant points out that in the new regulation of the LAR in Norway, it may seem that drugfreedom as a goal has disappeared. In addition, the new guidelines ignore the view that LAR should be time-limited, but with a pragmatic understanding that for some it will last for life. From the objective of a time-limited framework with certain exceptions, the exemption has now been highlighted as normal. The central party shares the inter-pellant's concern about this development. We believe and have programmed that the objective of drug dependence treatment in Norway should continue to be drug-free, while LAR should be a complement. Medicinal products do not remove addiction itself, but it is an important supplement because it can improve quality of life and psychosocial functioning. One can avoid the use of illicit drugs and reduce harm to individuals and society, such as alcohol and alcohol. health disorders and crime. Then we have to realize that some drug addicts, similar to some others with chronic diseases, will depend on medicine for life. Of course, the limitation of damage is necessary and positive. However, I am very sceptical about and concerned about a development in which LAR and, if necessary, in the future heroin-assisted treatment and other harm-reduction measures, such as heroin. Drug injection rooms are becoming the dominant supply, and not least the most focused, both politically, budgetaryly and in the public debate. Many forget that heavy drug users do not only have a drug problem. Most of these have extensive psychosocial problems. It's part of the drug addiction. Looking at heroin distribution in other countries, this is used as a means of establishing contacts, creating relationships with the drug user to provide a range of other services, such as counselling, psychosocial follow-up, housing, etc. The paradox is that many thousands of drug addicts in Norway are standing without such follow-up today. There are 4 000 drug users in line for drug treatment. Even those in the LAR often lack this kind of follow-up. Many hoped that the Stoltenberg Committee’s attitude would be the final impact of heroin programmes in Norway. Instead, the sample has placed this matter as a minor measure in a large package of many overall assessments and proposals. In addition, the sample stressed that there is still a high level of professional uncertainty about the use of heroin in treatment. I believe that we do not need, first of all, several individual measures that contribute to the prolongation of active drug use. What we need in the first place is a coherent provision of treatment and the emphasis on services that can lead to abstinence. It has been said that the biggest challenge is not to become drug free, but to prevent relapse. That's why it's extremely important to strengthen post-protection. I want to thank the interpellant for the interpellation. I hope that this debate will remind the House of the fact that drug-freedom still has to be a central and general objective of the drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e870	The next speaker is Kjersti – Trine Skei Grande, then Thor Erik Forsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e873	Now you must truly pronounce the name right, President. If not, there will be more headlines in the VG about the important things we do here in the house!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e878	I think I said the representative, Grande, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e881	Thank you! I can very simply say that the objective of the Left in terms of drug policy is: saving lives to give people a decent life to show them a way out of drug abuse I think it should be quite sunny. I don't understand why we're going to have to discuss that this is actually among the more lifesaving policy areas we're working on. 150 years ago, the city's fine people walked over the poor who lay on the street, explaining that they just crossed, with the "sin". Then the “sin” was the explanation that someone was poor and someone was rich. Today we also walk over someone on the street, but today it's the rush that explains that we're doing it. With the exception of SV's posts, which I think were a bit open to solutions, I have actually been a little over the debate. And I'm just asking the Council of State to notice that this is the field where all her predecessors have repented that they didn't do any more. Most recently, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who admitted that there was no power to make dramatic changes in a very important area. This is the group that you like to boast about spending a billion more on, at a time when you've had so much more money. So I can boast that the Left's alternative budgets would have led to a billion more than that again, most often within tighter frames than the government has made. But it is also the group that is least worth the waiting list guarantee. And that's also the policy area where the National Auditorate is strangling us very hard for the way we spend our money. When you talk in this area – as I see it in the interpellant – not about alcohol, but above all about other drug problems and about price and availability, I think it's a little strange. There's really nothing that we're affecting, but that we're trying to influence as much as we can through other organs. It is clear that prevention is important. But for all of those I've met in this area, it's not the dream of Plata that makes you put the first shot, it's not the dream of the life you see there. A lot of people know about it, but a lot of people are exposed to this through what they describe to me as a marine medicine. And then we know a little bit about the nucleus. This is much more complex and much more personal. It's kind of a sea medicine, often to tackle other adversity in life. Then we have to have our own organisation of the health care system in that area. Maybe we have to do something illogical in our world. Perhaps we need to do something politically illogical to find out the measures that are logical in such a world. The left has been open to use heroin for a small group of the most tired, who have no benefit from any of the other things we offer. I think it's a microscopic little debate, but it's about having a prejudice-free attitude to use the tools you need to save lives, to create dignity and to give a way out of it. As I talk to drug addicts on the street, I would like to encourage people from other states to do here in Oslo as well. This is where their citizens are who have those problems. Then we meet stories about a huge bureaucracy. It's about little understanding of the life they live, and it's about meeting a lot of resistance in the structures that would help. I think it's very good that the Council of State comes up with a new message. I'll encourage her to go out on the street and talk to those who have experienced it, before she presents it to us. And so I'd like to offer her all the suggestions left has made in the area over the last five years – in 24 hours’ guarantee, whether it gives the ability to write out the funds that they think are right for their patient, and not that a often unskilled Nav assistant sits and decides what a fixed assessor is as medical. This is the only area where we have it like that. There are a lot of other proposals that we have put forward, which I do not reach here. If the government wants to be brave, the Left would like to be on the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e912	I would like to welcome any debate on Norwegian Russian policy. Unfortunately for the debate, many of those who live in the reality that we are talking about here will not participate. The shame imposed by others rests heavily around what we very rarely talk about. But it's not so much positive that comes out of shame. It fosters silence and distance where we should have had open conversations and new opportunities. For this reason, it is important that those who have managed the premises of Norwegian drug policy over the last 40 years do not manage the premises for the next decades. I'm experiencing the interpellation as an attempt at just that. Laila Davøy demand abstinence as the central goal of care. Interpellant sets up harm-reduction measures against this. This is not just an out-of-date way to think about, but we're turning this principle into a practical policy, it's a direct health hazard. No other patient groups will be exposed to similar experiments. Over the last decades, 3,000 people have paid the highest price of all, namely their own lives in overdose deaths. Some people say we have to do what we know works, and I refer to the great institutions how complete abstinence is the goal. We need these institutions, whether they're run by public or non-profit institutions. But we're going to say that well over half have been swing door spacers in these institutions. When winter comes, it's in the institution, when spring comes, it's just as full again, and you haven't had the effect of this treatment. That means that there's a great deal for those who can make use of it, but for all those who can't, we need an alternative offer based on the fact that we humans and drug addicts are as different as everyone else. I would rather say that harm-reduction measures are an important step on the road to drug-free treatment or treatment for those concerned. It's not about making the way back to society too long. If you lose your teeth, if you get different infections, wounds that don't cure yourself, HIV or hepatitis, it's so much harder to see the hope there that makes you able to go through that kind of treatment. But we have set the list so too high when the goal has been complete freedom of movement. Once we've set the target so very high for a lot of people who have a lot of losses in their luggage already, it's only led to new defeats and many who have given up on themselves. I think it is important what the interpellant points to, that most people had social problems before becoming addicted to drugs, as shown in the 1997 survey. But we don't need research or research to figure it out. It keeps doing as Trine Skei Grande correctly said, go out and talk to the people concerned. And that's exactly what we're trying to figure out. That's what's at the heart of how we're going to help more people master the life you've been given. It is about tackling these problems with social instruments and a more liberal society. I think that instead of pointing to harmreduction measures, such as Injection rooms – there may be a distribution of clean syringes, ascorbic acid, other things – should be taken to where the dog is really buried, because there are similarities between setting a drug free as the ultimate goal and zero tolerance on the part of society. We have hundreds of policemen – including at Oslo S – who every day are the last front in the society's war on drugs. I had really hoped that Laila Davøy had been up here fighting for the health professionals' duty to provide the necessary health care and to correct the city council they support in Oslo, along with the Oslo police, which now no longer merely defines the drug addicts as a problem to be chased away. Now one has taken a step further, and also chooses to chase away the people who are there voluntarily and help – distribute clean syringes, ascorbic acid, stellar wounds. French help is an example, as well as nursing at Wheels and the Human Drug Policy Association. This is what helps to make the way back to society easier — through human contact — and reduces the damage as much as possible. That's what's a more liberal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e927	This debate must, of course, be based on what is happening today. I believe that in 2004, the Storting actually abolished the shame of being drug addicts by saying that as a drug addict, you are a patient on a par with all other patients. Until then, there had been a really uninteresting debate about whether being drug addicts was a disease or not, where the Storting concluded that that discussion might be going on, but the consequence of being drug addicts over a long time is that you are sick, that you are a patient, and that you have patient rights. In this way, patients in today’s discussion can easily be compared to another patient group, namely cancer patients. I think everyone sees that cancer patients who won't be able to enjoy further treatment need relieving treatment. However, cancer patients who benefit from cancer treatment should have cancer treatment. The problem is that today we do not have a good treatment for those who benefit from treatment, and then we provide them with relief instead. We would never have accepted that in other areas of our healthcare system. Today, harm reduction is correct, and it is important, but unfortunately due to lack of treatment, it is also a substitute for treatment that can help patients become drug free. I am glad that the government has now announced that there will be a big message about the drugs policy. For the right, it'll be the next best. We would have wanted an obliging escalation plan in line with what is the escalation plan in psychiatry. I hope that a big message not only contains policy, but also a description of what will be the need in the years to come, specifically in relation to the build-up of treatment services for this patient group, and a balance between harm reduction and needs. It is quite obvious that a drug addict also has the right to health care, a right to housing, a right to a decent life, even in a situation where a drug addict is rushing. Today, a lot of people feel that the rush is blocking the rights you have both as a patient and as a resident of a municipality, and that is not right. It belongs to a policy that one has to go back very many years to find the basis for looking at this in relation to the Biggest view. As regards the evaluation of the Stoltenberg Committee’s proposal, the focus is on the question of what is called heroin-assisted treatment. The majority has clearly requested that a consensus conference be held before a conclusion is reached on this issue. From the point of view of the State budget, it may seem that the government has cancelled that consensus conference because there is to be a consultation on the Stoltenberg Committee. I do not believe that is in line with what the Storting has decided, and I hope that the Council of State can answer that question. So until the discussion on the consequences of starting heroin-assisted treatment will be for Norway. I think one of the most important lessons the Committee brought with it from Switzerland was the consequences of such a scheme for the provision of drug-assisted rehabilitation as a whole, namely that a prerequisite for heroin-assisted treatment is that one removes the threshold for getting methadone and Subutex. That is, anyone who wants can get Subutex and methadone, and one can do side-abuse as much as one wants. Without it, assisted heroin treatment does not work. It also came from the person who had actually been responsible for the establishment of the offer in Switzerland. I am not sure that those who call for this in Norway today have really taken that reality into account. The second thing that is a clear lesson from Switzerland, not least in view of the discussion about the role of police in this, is that the police in Switzerland have had an extremely much more hard-handed treatment, to say the least, of drug addicts than what we will ever accept in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e944	This is a very important debate, and it has been said very well in the debate. Some people have pointed out the importance of using their own experiences, what we see around us. I myself have worked both with prevention among young people and with those who have problems with drugs for some years — especially in the 1980s — and have followed developments in the field in recent years. In relation to the goal of abstinence, which is the starting point for the interpellation, I would say one thing I think we might misunderstand. Many addicts go through many treatment courses. We need to have a different view of a treatment course here than in the case of a medical procedure, a surgical procedure. Here it is that some of the addicts succeed in their first or second attempts — maybe 10-20 pst. In the fifth attempt, 10 pst., in the eighth attempt, maybe 10 pst., and in the eleventh attempt, maybe 10 pst succeed. Through such a process, many people in the meantime receive important help to stay alive; they get humanitarian help. They exist, they get more strength and they work better on their premises. So it's at some point a good part that's going to break out. But it's at different times. It may be in eleven trials, or it may be in other trials. Therefore, I believe that the concept of swing door spacers is an incorrect concept to use in this debate. It is suitable for surgical procedures and mistreatment, but here you can't talk about mistreatment when someone doesn't succeed in first, second or third attempts, but succeeds in the ninth or tenth. I have experienced meeting some people who have succeeded in the tenth attempt, and as it has looked as if there was no hope for at all after seven attempts. I very much agree with a lot of the representative Höie is talking about here, but I want to warn you a little bit about that parallel to cancer patients. I mean, it's not going to be a right parallel, just like what I said about surgery. It's actually hard to define someone as hopeless. They can seem hopeless in some phases, and then all of a sudden 15 years later, a successful person appears to be getting a new life. Therefore, I would appeal to perseverance in the attitude to the drug field and to see that all people should have an opportunity – always, all the way – and never should anyone be defined as impossible to help in the field. With this starting point, in the autumn of 2008 – when I was a health policy spokesman for the Workers' Party – all the games at Stortinget entered into an agreement on drug treatment in the 2009 state budget. That included a further escalation plan, which the government is now adding to the budget, and on which there is a big message, which I hope, which has also been discussed by several, goes into concrete ways in which the escalation plan is to be developed and improved. We mentioned some points, all the games on Stortinget, which were important to us in the drug deal and in the new escalation plan. First of all, we wanted an analysis of overdose deaths: what happens when you take an overdose and do not get enough help and are close to dying? Many receive antidotes and are sent back into the street and do not get the emergency treatment they need. There is a need for a rusakut perhaps more places than Oslo too, with enough capacity. I underline the latter and refer to the use of the 50-60 million. kr as Stortinget granted to a Rusakutt in Oslo, where until now only 20 million. kr has been used for investment in it – a Rusakut with enough capacity, so that you can move on to a processing process immediately. In order to move forward in an immediate course of treatment, we need to increase the capacity of the treatment offer, which was also part of what we entered when it applied to the queues that were at the time and that are now. I think the stamina of the Storting and the authorities in the treatment offer has something to do with how we view those addicts as people, that we're able to see that it's not just about looking for new, original solutions when we have a problem, but see that this requires endurance in understanding that these people can be helped in many phases of life. And then we need to build up treatment capacities that are suitable to meet that need. We also got into that setting on the R in the LAR offer and the need to get more of it. I think it is now a positive tone in this debate. There's a lot of big business here that'll be able to agree on, and those things I think you should first focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e959	I would like to comment on some of the comments. But first I want to thank you for a very good debate in my opinion. The representative, Forsberg, said that I was setting a target of harm reduction measures against abstinence. Of course I don't. We need harm-reduction measures. But we can't just have that, we also have to have everything else. However, I am sceptical about some harm-reduction measures, including: Heroin treatment. The representative of Trine Skei Grande was informed of the debate. I don't know why she was given. But she also mentioned something that was not up in the debate, namely that the interpellant had talked about price and availability, and that she seemed strange. I thought it was very strange that she said, because I have not mentioned price and availability. This is probably one of the first debates I've taken the initiative to where I haven't actually mentioned price and availability, but have been busy with other things. There has been a good debate focusing — from the vast majority of this debate — on responses to the sick sleeper. I also welcome the central party's very clear position on the issue of drug-freedom as a goal of the Russian policy. With regard to the experience of the committee's trip to Switzerland, I very much agree with the representatives of Kjos and Höie; these are incredibly important points they make. Of course, we have some different experiences from that trip, but precisely those two points I think were very important. I also very much agree with what Mr Bøhler said. If that's the fifth attempt or that's the tenth, we never have to give up anyone who actually wants to get help. Too many spacers have probably experienced it over the years. And when I look back at my own experience by working at the detoxification unit in Bergen, the Blue Cross, I think of those who came in day after day, night after night. What we said was, no, now you've been here so often, now you have to think about, if you're really going to be allowed to come in one more night. Finally, there are two things I want the Council of State to take along. I hope that the Council of State will help us to make a deal in using ideal institutions in a better way than what we are doing today, because this will be of great importance to Ruspacents too, to those who are in line. The second thing I want is simply to refer to the report of the Stoltenberg Committee. What I think is the most important thing from there is the overall approach they have, after all, to overall treatment. The Stoltenberg selection illustrated this by saying: look at it as a staft – do not let go of the staft stick until the next joint has taken over. I think it's a very good picture of what it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e974	I would also like to say that it has been a very good debate. I really experience every time we have a drug debate in Stortinget, that there is quite a lot of consensus – at least about the goals. And then there's some nuances along the way, and maybe that's also important. I just want to get back to this with the LAR. Because if it is the case that some patients are only offered LAR and nothing else, it is not in line with the guidance given for this type of treatment – just so it is clear. As Bent Höie very correctly said, a drug addict has been granted rights like all other patients, and should be treated like all other patients. And that also means that if you have to go into detoxification in an acute manner, you have to get in there immediately. Then it's not like you're going to sit in a queue on the street and wait, you're actually going to have emergency treatment. In this way, the diagnosis of these patients shall be assessed in exactly the same way as any other diagnosis in the healthcare system. Then there are several people who have been involved in this with the whole process of treatment. And something that I also said initially, and that I just want to emphasize, is, when someone waits, and when the waiting time goes up because more and more people are being treated, it's easy to think that nothing is good enough. But there's actually a lot that's improved -- just the fact that the growth in the budgets after 2005 has been 31 pst. It is, after all, nowhere else – neither in somatics nor in mental health – you have had such a strong growth, such a strong focus and such a strong development, I would also say, in treatment. So some institutions that have been used may not be used anymore. However, quality assessments of regional health enterprises are also carried out here. So it's not like we're opposed to using non-profit institutions or non-profit institutions. If you look around Oslo at the offer to addicts, it's actually like that. I would really like to tell the representative Trine Skei Grande that I have actually been to those places that are too addicted to alcohol. I've talked to a lot of people there. And there had not been many offers, for example. in Oslo, or other cities, if it had not been for the ideal organizations. The Church’s Bymission, the Salvation Army – and there are more – is doing a fantastic job, and a very important job, which is absolutely to be valued. However, public health needs both competence and treatment capacity in this area, which is so important. Then we're going to use private and non-profit organisations where it's right to do it. I understand that when the committee has been in Switzerland, there will be a lot of discussion about this one measure. But I hope that in the future the debate will focus on all the other measures, too, that one action on any heroin-assisted treatment should not overshadow all the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e987	The examination of case No. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1003	Health priorities are made every day. In hospitals, doctors and nurses and others are in situations where they have to decide whether to give the patient more treatment, whether to put the patient on a new medicine, whether to have physiotherapy, etc. There are leaders who assess whether new positions should be created for psychologists in mental health protection, environmental therapists in the drug field or neurologists in the somatic area. Furthermore, there are priorities in the field of research. What else are we going to do? Is that brain or heart we need more knowledge about to get even better treatment, or is it muscle and bone? Is it somatic, mental health protection or drug treatment? We, as politicians, also prioritise, through political, strategic and economic decisions, for different patient groups. What patients are knocking on the door asking for faster and better treatment? But perhaps even more important: which patients are the ones who don't knock on the door, but who still need help? Prioritisation is essential to have resources where most is needed. But the discussion is just, where is it? The development of healthcare is, in principle, fantastic. There will be new treatments on continuous bands. Diseases that were fatal a few years ago can be cured today, or it is possible to live with them for many, many years. The priority challenge is that resources are needed in a number of places, and there may be different opinions about where resources are most needed. Among other things, the powerful medical disciplines believe that their own subject is most important. We've had a lot of examples of that. Of course, different performances are also linked to the disciplines, which have a significant impact on the priorities. Many have said that in the future there will be a greater distance between what can be treated and the economic and human resources available. Not least, we know demographic developments. The number of people over the age of 67 will double by 2050, and the number of people over the age of 80 may increase from 218 000 in 2007 to no less than 500000 in 2050. We also know that the number of people with dementia will be able to double to about 130 000 in the same period. In 2000, there were 4.7 persons of working age per year. the elderly. This ratio is reduced to 2.9 in 2050. The increase in labour demand in the care sector will be 133,000 annual works by 2050. That's big numbers we're talking about. Various attempts have been made to measure up to the right priority, considering the quality of life and the quality of life compared to the treatment given. There is also thanks for the price of annual treatment, even if it is not binding. Calculations and price patches are not compatible with a comprehensive view of the human being, I believe. All people have infinite value, regardless of function and age. I came back for a while over an article in The Medicine Day from 2001 that the World Health Organization would then turn a controversial health scale into a common foundation for world health politicians – a kind of measure of life value. In this system, sick, elderly and children’s years of life became less valuable than the lives of employed young adults. In the debate that followed, opinions came that the valuation of people on the basis of their functional abilities would be in stark contrast to humanistic values. I do not know what happened to the health scale of the World Health Organisation, but I assume that it has neither been used nor will be used. At least as a politician, I find it very difficult to relate to a health scale. The priority debate started by the health director in June is important to continue. As the Evening Post wrote at the senior position on June 8th this year: ‘The most important thing about Larsen’s opinions is not the conclusions, but the problematisation.’ Critics who believe that politicians are afraid of prioritising are far on the right track. I have even met cancer that was rescued and provoked by the priority debate. I've met older people who are now afraid they won't get help when they need it. I understand them, and the first thought is perhaps to avoid the debate. Indeed, the main reason for health care is acutely critically ill, seriously ill and dying people. These must be given priority first. But what happens if we don't take the priority debate? Well, then it loses mentally ill, drug addicts, who we've just debated, muscle-and-bone disease, or other chronicle and demented old. These are groups that do not belong to a status field, and many of them do not have the power to demand the treatment they need. Traditional acute patient treatment wins over prevention and rehabilitation, which is difficult to measure. We can also risk not taking the ethical debate on expectations of life. Expectation-Norway is border-breaking. Per Fugelli pronounces: “As long as we think that ‘higher, faster and stronger’ is what gives human dignity, death becomes quite intolerable.” Or as editor-in-chief of Sykepleien, Bjørn Arild Østby, said in an article: ‘It’s a shame we can’t take a debate on priorities that last more than a day [[...]] We often think that death can be delayed, that there is always treatment, that we can avoid all suffering. We often contribute politicians to it – I'll be so honest to say that we do. There is a lot of overtreatment in hospitals, because many people don't dare say from when enough is enough. Prosecution ethics, i.e. the doctors, nurses and other professional groups have, as their ethical guidelines, their priorities in the working day. Prosthetics provide a good basis. It also ensures a human approach to priorities. This means, in fact, that a debate on health care priorities should rather create security for the population rather than fear. But the big question is, what does it take to get it? I hope that the Council of State agrees with me that we politicians must be actively involved in this debate. My question today — and that is a difficult question — is what kind of action the Council of State will take to ensure that a debate on priorities can just take place without creating fear and unrest in the population. And at least I'm a politician – and I think we're all here in Stortinget – want to participate in a debate on this. But it's demanding, and personally, I also find it difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1050	My first reaction after hearing the interpellant is that we have actually had two interpellation debates that have been most concerned with health care priorities, so it is absolutely right that we give priority every day. Policies are priority – and health policies are thus absolutely also priority. So that's what the interpellant said, so that medical progress gives us so many new opportunities. We survive diseases we died of before, we treat diseases that we had never been able to treat, and never before have so many been treated in healthcare. We're also giving you treatment of higher quality. When discussing priorities, it must also be at the bottom that everyone should have the same access to healthcare. Everyone shall have an equivalent offer irrespective of diagnosis, residence, personal finances, gender, ethnic background and individual life. People should be sure that they get good treatment when they get sick. The most important thing we can do to get the right priority is therefore to provide a strong public health system, and we need to have a systematic effort to reduce social health inequalities. We need to make sure that patients and groups who do not have the same ease to promote their case are heard, as we have done through a reinforced commitment to drug addiction and psychiatry. I fully agree with the representative, Mrs Davøy, when she says that priorities cannot be about figures alone, but also have to be about prevention, rehabilitation, quality and patient safety. So I just want to start by saying something about these issues, and finally I want to say something about how we can create a good and reliable debate. As I said, politics are priorities, and priorities in a field where resources are not unlimited – not economic and absolutely human. The debate on priority is therefore largely a debate on the proper use of resources, so that patients can best benefit. Prioritisation is not necessarily about choosing away; good questions are also raised about making good choices. Through good priorities, it is possible to strengthen healthcare. National Council for Quality and Priority of Health was proposed by the previous government, it has been reduced and decided to continue by this government. The Council has played an important role in wider population-oriented actions, such as proposals for screening, vaccines and genetic mass testing. Another important task is to make recommendations on how patients should receive an equivalent offer. We will now look at how the Council can involve more people in the discussions. National Councils themselves have proposed that all those with something on their hearts can propose cases. Another proposal is that prevention services should be given a wider place in Council discussions. I think this is a good proposal. Prevention must be strengthened. In the years to come, we will grow in chronic and non-infectious diseases such as cancer, obesity, diabetes, and COPD. We know that we can prevent many of these diseases, and we need to do more to prevent disease and damage from occurring. This work therefore needs to get more focus. The Government, as part of the Interaction Reform, will also propose a new public health law that clarifies the responsibility of municipalities for prioritising prevention and public health work in general. The key to reducing social health inequalities lies in prevention, and this is mainly outside healthcare. We need to step up our efforts against smoking, get more people into physical activity and make it easier to choose healthy. We need to increase quality and strengthen patient safety. At Akershus University Hospital, they have worked to focus on patient safety and to reduce hospital infections. They have actually succeeded so well that they are very well placed at international level in terms of the results they have achieved in reducing hospital infections. This also brings economic benefits. The cost of adverse health events is high for individuals and is high for society as a whole. Work on improving quality and increasing patient safety is therefore a high priority. I have launched ten tools to improve quality and patient safety: we need to reduce errors and provide proper treatment at the right time. We need better access to healthcare through waiting times, and deadlines are not to be accepted. The government is proposing an increase of nearly 1 billion. kr in the budgets of health establishments. In addition, work is strengthened through a dedicated patient safety campaign in 2011 and through a dedicated pressure group on health surveillance. Patients shall receive better information from hospitals on deadlines and rights. We need better quality measurement systems, including: through Nordic cooperation and central health registers. A new specialist healthcare system shall be put in place to ensure that patients have equivalent access to new technologies and treatment methods. Good assessment tools shall ensure that they are well-documented, safe and effective. We need clear and consistent tools for prioritization. The prioritisation regulation provides for the prioritisation of individual patients in the specialist healthcare service. It is comprehensive and thorough, but we have also received feedback that it is difficult to interpret. It is therefore designed to provide guidance for 32 disciplines to ensure better and more consistent prioritisation practices. In the consultation draft new health and care law, I would like to invite you to your views on how we can simplify the priority legislation. National advice on quality and priority in healthcare shall provide advice to healthcare and the government on difficult priority issues. The Board of Governors shall be chaired by regional health enterprises, health professionals and representatives of municipalities, KS and user organisations. The aim of the discussions is to achieve a more comprehensive approach to issues related to precisely quality and priority. The government is presenting its national health and care plan for the years 2011–2015 as a global report in spring 2011. Here we will focus on how health resources should be prioritised during the period and show how the Cooperation Reform is to be implemented. During October, I would like to invite you to a wide-ranging hearing, including: with online recording, working on the Storing message. Health engages, and we want to facilitate the widest possible participation in the debate on how to shape the health and care services of the future. Hearing replies will be open to all and can also be discussed online. In addition, I would like to invite you to four open hearings, one in each health region. The themes will be trust, quality and priority, based on the proposal for the health and care plan. The priority debate takes place on several levels. It happens, as today, at an overall system level, between us who are decision-makers, health care and patient groups. But it also happens every day in a meeting between the individual patient and the individual. The basis for a good discussion of priorities takes place through an open debate. Just like that, I think we can avoid fear and unrest. I want professionals, organisations, patients and relatives to get involved. If we are able to create a good and participatory dialogue on priorities, we will succeed with much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1086	Thank you to the Council of State for going into this debate in a good way. I fully agree with much of what she says, both in terms of equivalence and that it is important that we further prioritise. What has been one of my starting points for the debate, too, is that priority should not be left to economics alone. It's definitely about using money properly. It's about prevention, early diagnosis, rapid treatment for those who need it, and more rehabilitation. These are actually areas that, as I also said in my post, are very easily becoming less priority. And then we never get on top, as we should, of many of these groups that depend on early diagnosis, prevention and rehabilitation – chroniclers, mentally ill and also ruspacers, which we debated earlier today. It is also important and right to say that patient safety is an absolute part of a debate on priority — including effective use and quality. With regard to the ten instruments mentioned by the Council of State, it is difficult to disagree with them – yes, maybe there is one I disagree with – but I want to challenge the Council of State. The Council of State knows that something may become even better after a debate in the Grand Duchy — that is, that good action can be even better, and one of them we will be debating if not for a very long time. It's good with good guides. I think it's an important step that we've taken, also with regard to the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health Care and the work they're doing. But as far as supervisors are concerned, I would nevertheless point out that it is not all, despite the fact that you have supervisors, who come so far as they come to treatment, and then I think maybe especially in the area of mental health, which is one area where more, both doctors and others, say that it is at all very difficult for some patients to get help in the field of specialist healthcare. In other words, municipal doctors are refused treatment. There are many people, including ruspacers, who have experienced that they are not coming to the waiting list, because they get no. Then it does not help to have supervisors. So the priority debate also has to be about this, that everyone who needs it gets help. These interventions are often difficult to deal with, at least in the first line it is often difficult to get sufficient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1097	We agree that the priority debate is not just about economics. We also agree that it is important to have a priority debate, although I would argue that we have a priority debate almost every time we have a debate. Of course, it's important to bring together those groups that are most difficult to deal with, because they're the ones who may not be looking for health services. Therefore, I have to say that in the cooperation reform, we are going to put great emphasis on reaching those who are not going to the doctor. Here I also believe that the first line service has a major task and must also be able to care for those who do not visit the health service. I often hear when I'm in the Storting, about people who are struggling, especially with mental health, and who are not being treated. And then I see at the same time that part of the new treatment in mental health protection is very good, and many people experience that they have a whole new life compared to those who had treatment in the old system. It's still a long way to go. We fully agree on that. That's why we've also focused a lot on this area, which is so important, and which affects so many people. The priority debate is also about functional distribution. In fact, sometimes you have to make some tough choices. It's all about, are we going to have everything everywhere? Or are we going to make sure that we have professional environments that are competent, that are strong, that can develop each other? I have no doubt that the day we get sick, we want treatment for the best professional environments. It is therefore difficult to separate one part of the priority debate. This is a total debate, an overall debate, which is demanding, but as I – as I said – experience that we have all the time. So we'll see what comes out of the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1108	I would like to begin by thanking the representative, Mr Davøy, for this interpellation. This is one of the most important debates in modern Norway. At the same time, it is one of the most difficult, and it is a debate that must lead the processes related to health care priorities. Today’s interpellation opens up the whole issue, from the overall priorities at community level to priorities at individual level. This range shows that the priority debate is a responsibility both for the Stortinget and for the individual health care staff. The inter-pellant is raising fears and concerns related to the priority debate. Here I would like to say the following: It's allowed to experience fear when we deal with such a difficult topic, because priority debates touch on our vulnerability, and because the debate challenges our fear of making crazy or bad decisions. But such fear need not hinder us. On the contrary, it should lead us to become aware of our responsibilities and deliver to the best of our ability. This debate does not start with one – fortunately. For many years we have had good debates on priorities, and we have a broad common position on ethics in healthcare in the big community. It is part of the civilised community that a basis for health care priorities is enshrined in Norwegian law, including: through a separate priority regulation. Our debate must be based on the fact that priorities are taking place today and that the need will increase. Priorities are choices, based on ethics and knowledge. It must be choice and not randomness. Choice means that the outcome may be alternative. At the political level, the overall responsibility for prioritisation lies between the social sectors and the tasks to be addressed. Furthermore, priority shall be given to the distribution between areas such as: Somatic medicine, psychiatry and drug treatment. All of this is the responsibility of the Storting. Diagnosis and treatment priorities for individual patients are a key concern of the professional community. Individual priority problems may arise when criteria and principles are not generally visible or generally accepted. The need and complexity of health care priorities will increase in the coming years. This will be due in particular to the accelerated growth of knowledge. Sometimes new knowledge will improve and simplify efforts, but in some cases new knowledge has been shown to increase the need for specialised health professionals and medical-technical equipment. New knowledge should benefit Norwegian patients, but no country has the aim of making immediate use of any new treatment proposal, because everything new does not represent real and important improvements. This applies even if the new one is being asked for in a health market. Many claim that the increase in the number of older people will be a major cause of more difficult priorities in the future. In my opinion, this is not true. It is the development of knowledge and new methods that will potentially raise costs and the need for health professionals beyond sustainability in all Western countries in the future. Therefore, priority is inextricably linked to work on good health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1125	Let me first commend the interpellant for raising this debate. There are many demanding and difficult decisions and priorities for health workers to take every day. With today's funding system, it is obvious that decisions will be taken on the basis of a weak economy in the health sector. This naturally affects the patient – this deeply regrets the Advancement Party. With today's system, unfortunately, employees are put on a demanding test, there are types of treatments, medications, etc., which, after all, have a price tag. This is something that health workers have to decide on, rather than being able to concentrate on their profession only to help people who need treatment. It is not worth a welfare society to set a price tag on whether or not to give individual help. Today’s funding model suggests that such issues may arise because everyone in healthcare has a strict budgetary framework to deal with. Every day, they face professional and economic dilemmas when assessing whether or not a patient should receive help and what treatment the patient should receive. It could depend on where you live as a patient, what help or treatment you will receive, because the individual health care provider has different savings needs. This helps to increase the differences between rich and poor in this country on health issues. This means that patients with a good economy can buy treatment and those who do not have a financial opportunity to do so must be in a line of despair or, in the worst case, be rejected in respect of a type of treatment that is essentially economical because of harsh demands for balance within the undertaking. Justice and equality are what we expect when it comes to health care in the welfare community. Individuals have stood up and told about differences they have experienced with the same type of disease, and whether or not there have been wide variations in patient assistance. Information has also been provided that priorities have been established between gender and education. Reports have been presented to show that there have been far too many differences in health services. In cancer patients, large differences in treatment have been observed. It has depended on where you live and on which hospitals the treatment has been given. The same applies to patients with heart disease to a large extent. The Medical Association itself has stated that the provision of treatment is too often governed by economic considerations. This is something that unfortunately confirms the situation. The Progress Party considers it very regrettable that we have a situation in the country where health and care professionals are faced with unreasonably tough decisions, where the focus is economics – versus purely professional assessments that form the basis for treatment. The Progress Party believes that in a welfare society everyone who needs it should receive help and treatment when they need it. The Party strongly opposes the need for healthcare professionals to think economy before deciding whether to provide treatment or to provide treatment. All people shall be entitled to treatment, irrespective of where on the rank ladder they belong. Where the patient lives in the country should also have no bearing on the type of treatment to be administered. That is why the Progress Party wants a funding model where the money follows the patient. Health professionals should focus only on the professional and not have to think about the economy in terms of treatment. Some might now say that as large a budget as it takes to get rid of health cows, no one has. But this has to be seen in the context that more people would then be at work and not outside, as the situation today is too many who fall out. The most important thing in a welfare society must be the certainty that the treatment available is always available in order to be healthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1146	The priority debate in Norway has gone on for quite a long time, with varying strengths. The general discussion has not least been linked to both the Wage I and Wage II Committee, but also to the call for values in health care provided by the Bondevik I Government, to the priority regulation, which also applies, and to the establishment of the Priority Committee under the Bondevik II Government. One has met the priority debate in various ways, but this is a debate that needs to be pursued continuously. That's why I want to thank the interpellant for raising this debate now, because this I experience in many ways is a response to the series of priorities that the Evening Post had in ours. Then one could get a first impression that the Minister of Health did not want the debate, because it could seem scary. We have been told today that it is not the Minister of Health's wish, and I am very pleased about that. In many ways, priority balancing can be carried out at three different levels, where there will be a need for political participation with different strengths. The first level is clearly a political level, and it is when a priority is given to the overall societal resource between health and other societal tasks. In this respect, it is important not least to have better control over the economy of health enterprises, because health does not have a priority in relation to other societal tasks, but is part of a political priority discussion. However, there are also priorities in the health sector, between, for example: Somatic, drug addiction and psychiatry. There I believe that political participation has been absolutely vital to lifting the drug field and the psychiatry. In those years when one of the subjects himself was given priority, somatics was given priority. Only when a priority political, could one give priority to those patient groups that had been given the lowest priority, priority, by saying that growth in the psychiatry and the drug field should be greater than growth in the somatic environment, individually — a very good example in areas where a political priority has been established. The second area is priority related to, for example: new treatment methods, new medicines, which in many ways meet the policy on equal terms. It's probably the most demanding area in the years to come. It is primarily where the Priority Committee has an important role to play. But this is a discussion I believe that, as politically responsible, we cannot just leave to the Committee on Priorities. It will also require that one have a common arena between the subject and the policy in this type of discussion, for one cannot separate such priority discussions either from the subject or from the policy. So to the third, that's the situation that most health care workers face, namely the thousands of priorities that take place in the healthcare system every day in a meeting between health professionals and the individual patient, for example. for the evaluation of the priority regulation. In this discussion, we politicians will have a smaller role to play, except that those who work in health care must feel secure that they have political leadership in their backs when they make these difficult priorities, that there is a system within which to make the priorities. There will therefore be a need for a continuous discussion of the priorities in the years to come. One of the areas I have mentioned that there is a need for a discussion around is linked to the self-promotion system that we have today in the healthcare system. I believe that there is a need for a public sample to look at how the self-employment system works today, in order to follow up the political priorities between different areas, given that the components must aim to protect them most with the greatest costs and the worst economy, and that today's self-employment system is, in reality, a patchwork without an overall context, which thus also seems very unfair to many patient groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1163	This year we have had a public debate in the media on health care priorities. I think that's very good. People elected are accused of not being clear enough, and will not give priority to health. It's not that good. Politicians may not be clear enough, but it would be wrong to say that there are no political priorities in healthcare. Political health priorities are carried out on a medical basis and are politically anchored through the two Wage Committees, the priority regulation and the Patient Rights Act. National advice on the quality and priority of healthcare has been established in order to better address ethically difficult priorities. Public health and business law build on political health priorities, as do the funding system for specialist health services and community health services. In addition, the size has itself addressed neglected groups through its own action plans and escalation plans. The most obvious example here is probably the strengthening of psychiatry through the Pedagogy Plan for Mental Health. I would argue that Norway has been a leading country in many ways in setting priorities on the health policy agenda. However, health priorities are a field that will never be final, and where there will still be a need for new clarifications and clear debates. Much does not work well enough in practice. It is a paradox when priority patient groups experience longer treatment queues than non-priority patient groups. It is also a paradox when politicians who are behind the priorities will not admit that prioritizing a group means that others will get less. To date, the growth in health budgets has been so high — at least for specialist health services — that there has been growth in all areas. But such a situation would be unlikely for the future. Then the priorities will be noticed more. Elections must take responsibility and dry to say loudly that healthcare has, and will, its clear limitations. In the future, it will be more important to focus on disease prevention than to offer the very latest of advanced treatment methods to all patient groups. There are also too many random health priorities today. It was, for example, not a deliberate political priority when the costs of specialist health care were doubled over a few years after the state assumed responsibility for hospitals. The increase was at the expense of prevention and strengthening the community health service. It is also worth considering that when a debate takes priority in healthcare, it is primarily a priority in the specialist health services, i.e. hospitals, that we think about. Instead, we need to look at the priorities of the overall healthcare system. It is precisely this cooperation reform that is taking hold. In this context, Stortinget has decided to give priority to municipal health services, ensuring greater growth than hospitals. This means that the specialist health service will get less. That's how we're going to turn healthcare over to more prevention and facilitate us to detect disease in the past. However, the main health priorities do not take place in the field of the Ministry of Health. Policies, economics and the environment place the greatest and most fundamental preconditions for the health status of the population. Social conditions such as work, income and networks play a major role in health. It is worrying that there are clear social and geographical health differences in Norway. Studies have shown that disabled people living in high-income neighbourhoods have a higher mortality rate than those who are unfavourable in the living environment with less social distinctions. Survival of different cancers has been shown to have clear social links. In Oslo, there is a ten-to-twelve year difference in life expectancy between the western and eastern parts of the city. Men with primary education in Norway can expect to live seven years shorter than men with university education. So a society that creates increasing differences between people and groups poses a health risk in itself. That is why I am pleased – and it is important to point out – that the government of the Soria Moria Declaration has as its first point that we should have a policy of community and justice. Reducing social health inequalities is the most important challenge in the field of health in the years to come. This must also be reflected in the priority debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1182	Thanks also from me to the interpellant. It is an important debate, and it is important to take it continuously. We have had public investigations and debates over the past 25 years, where we have developed three basic criteria for patient-oriented priorities in terms of value and regulation. These are related to the severity of the disease, the quality of the treatment and the relationship between the cost and the effectiveness of the treatment. However, the main challenge remains, and the most difficult in the priority debate is the transition to action. But we have to take things in the right order. The most important thing is to avoid harm — what has been an ethical guide to healthcare since antiquity. And then we have to release resources for important work by reducing unwanted events. The patient safety campaign in 2011 with emphasis on drug management and hygiene will contribute to this. And then we don't have to do anything that doesn't work. A look-up with Jørgen Skavlan in the newspaper says that in Sweden last year 10,000 knees were operated on unnecessarily. Whether it is a correct number or not, this shows the need to take knowledge-based priorities ahead of market-based priorities. Furthermore, the priorities taken must be clear enough, well-known and in line with the general perception of justice. We need to know more about what most people think should be given priority. Here I believe a little bit in the people's good judgment, and the awareness that we all have to make some choices in difficult circumstances. The councils were in the middle of the broad consultation on which the National Health Plan is now coming out, and I look forward to it, because I think it can help to make what people actually think, and what people think about also the difficult question that is asked here. It is a political priority to focus on public health and preventive medicine. This requires political courage, because it is not that all gains are made visible before the next elections, and because the main areas of intervention are outside our healthcare. An overall political Norway should therefore support the proposals in the State budget which take public health action on taxes on alcohol, tobacco and snuff. The World Health Organization says that 80 pst. of the myocardial infarction, 90 pst. of diabetes mellitus, diabetes, and 30 pst. cancer can be prevented or delayed by minor uses of tobacco, alcohol and sugar. The concept of public health in the 2011 budget has therefore, in my opinion, been received both with respect and understanding of most. The most difficult issue in the debate on priorities is the transition to action. Political rhetoric becomes too unclear when it comes to individual patient priorities. Here, actions must be knowledge-based through criteria that can actually be widely disseminated in our society. The criteria cannot be so detailed that we never get the debate on the individual issues, but the criteria must also be so robust that the legitimacy on which they are based can be verified. As we stand here and debate, the difficult and demanding priorities in the offices around the doctors, at the hospitals and at all our health institutions take place. Out of respect for that, perhaps in our debates we should facilitate such robust, knowledge-based, generally accepted criteria for medical priorities. But the debate is difficult, and it is necessary to take it all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1195	I must be allowed to thank the representatives and the Council of State for a good debate on this interpellation as well. The representative Bent Höie was in the payroll selections we've had, and also the shopping news about values that came in 1999. We have, of course, done a lot from our political point of view, but we are far from the goal, and, as Sonja Mandt said, this debate must never stop. It has to go on all the time. Several have pointed out in particular the major challenges of equivalence, that there are major differences and also that of economics – that the economy may be a big driver. Perhaps we should have dried dust from the 1999 big news about Norwegian health care values. It includes an element of equivalence in the provision of services for all, improved health care at the end of life, predictable and clear priorities, a greater emphasis on patient participation and a still low threshold for contact with healthcare. That was part of the values that were drawn out there. Just drawing the values of healthcare — the values it should be based on — is, if possible, even more important today than before. Looking at the choices we make in health care, from an ethical perspective, may give us different answers than when we do in a market economy perspective. As it says in the message, and now I quote: ‘At a time when there is great emphasis on reforms related to the economy, equipment, personnel, organisation and legislation, it is important not to miss out on the real objective and content of the healthcare service.’ Perhaps we need a common value base for healthcare, which is the overall professional ethics – an ethical foundation in which we discuss what kind of healthcare we want and how we can put it into practice, preferably based on Bent Höie’s three-level division, where professional ethics is respected. In the field of professional ethics, the ethical debate is ongoing — continuously — also in terms of priorities. Maybe we politicians have something to learn from it? Finally, I am pleased that the Council of State will soon present a new national health and care plan, and I also hope that it can focus precisely on the value base of healthcare in relation to what is our responsibility as politicians – how this can raise awareness of better priorities and important priorities from our point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1214	At first, the Progress Party made a point that this was a debate about money, and that one could not put a price tag on a human life. We're very much in agreement, we're not going to put a price tag on a human life. But if we completely release the priority debate from the economy, I think it's going to be quite wrong. What is important in Norway and what was also important in the priority debate that was held is that Norwegian patients should be confident that they will receive the best treatment they need. But when we say good treatment, best treatment, it's also supposed to be good, tried treatment. And at least I don't want there to be any uncertainty that we will get good treatment in Norway. There will always be a question of when to take new treatment methods. It's also being done, but it has to be done in controlled ways. I want to say that the strongest priority the government is doing in the health sector is the interaction reform, because it is a policy reform with a strong priority of chroniclers, of hundreds of thousands of people who have not had as good treatment in the health care system as they might have had, should have had or had had a claim, according to their condition. Given that you sometimes look a little bit beyond your own country, not least in terms of public health and what perspectives we have there, there are signs from the United States that this generation, that is, the growing generation, can be the first generation that lives shorter than its parents. It gives some perspective, and it also tells us something about what we have to prioritize. And it goes far beyond what we treat in the hospital – it actually goes on in public health and public health. So it's serious when we say we have to bet on prevention, we have to bet on public health, and we actually have to bet on being a healthier people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1223	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1239	I thought that I should start with what is meant as a nice encouragement to the presidency: when you deal with issues relating to this topic, you might have interpreted the debate in sign language. It was meant to be a kind recommendation to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1244	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1247	That's good! When we dealt with the language message, it was decided that sign language should also be a public language in Norway. But if you're going to be able to develop it, there's a lot of elements that go into it before we can say that we take it seriously. Deaf people and others who use sign language in daily communication with theirs are as different as all of us, and have different needs. But it is clear that language is culture, and language is communication. We know through all the other areas where we have taken our own languages seriously, that languages are important as cultural media and cultural carriers, and that the sign language also has its culture and its cultural dissemination. Language is also identity. This means that many people in Norway have their identity related primarily to the sign language and feel that they belong to their own language group in the sign language. Language is also rights and participation. The left has several elected people who have to use sign language, and who have problems with their rights as elected people because they have no access to interpreters when they're going to carry out what the people have chosen to perform. In the big news there were a lot of great goals and comments. There were up to 100 measures that the Council of State promised he would start. The problem is that we still have no plan and no instrument in this particular field – or, which was one of the many recordings I got before this interpellation was written: it seems that this government shows great understanding, but there will be no result from it. We're waiting for a new language law, but before we need it, we need to have an overall commitment to develop this language. This question I could have asked a lot of government councillors, because it's a very broad question. Some of it falls under the Ministry of Culture – it may well not be up to the Council of State to deal with or respond to – but I had to choose a Council of State, and then I choose one in the field that I think is the most important thing to do. The entire university and higher education sector has a responsibility to develop a subject – and a bit of the problem of sign language as a language is that today the responsibility lies with our university and higher education structures. Perhaps someone should be responsible for following up the subject as a subject? In order to be able to establish an environment around the dissemination of a language, it is important to research in that language and its development. It is today in Norway very minimal, sail if we have any, and we should have had more. We should also ensure the development of the subject, ensure that there is an academic environment that can drive the sign language into the role it should have as an official language in Norway. Lingvistics should be developed, and the language should be developed at all times. The responsibility for interpreting the offer – at least education – lies with this Council of State. We're still seeing that decomposed. In the Interpreting Study 2008, 30 new interpreters were promised. We're still waiting for them. And I know that at least 15 students here in Oslo have had to finish their studies because they don't have interpreters. This applies to sign language competence: if sign language is to be a public language, many institutions dealing with deaf and hard-of-hearing people who have it as their main language must also deal with them in that language. I have received many enquiries that specifically promise two areas. One concerns child protection. Child protection should have competence in sign language to enter families in need of special assistance. A deaf person wrote to me that going into therapy, which also deaf occasionally needs, is a lot more tiring if you need an interpreter. It also feels much more informative if you have to have an interpreter than if one in many disciplines had actually had therapists who could sign language. I have a dream that I hope the Council of State might share with me. Several listeners who have given me feedback on this have said: Why is it not easier for people to learn sign language, perhaps to have it as a foreign language in school? It's my dream. My dream is that when someone chooses Spanish and German, others can choose sign language as a preparatory subject, perhaps in a profession to be given, or you have a friend who is deaf, or someone in the circle who is deaf, with whom a person would like to communicate in their language. It should have been an offer – if we don't get it to anywhere, then somewhere. Especially in those places where you have deaf students, it must be possible to make an offer, so that people can choose sign language as a foreign language in their profession. Those kids who today grow up with implants are really bilingual kids who relate to an oral, hearing everyday life, but in which they can't fully participate in the same way as the rest of us. They have a foot in sign language, which is one of their languages, and should really be treated as we treat other bilingual kids. The central responsibility of the Council of State is about interpreters, and it's about developing the subject. I have a dream that this is going to be one of the languages we're involved in developing, growing, and that also gives the education perspective that we want other subjects in our schools to have. My question is: What is the strategy of the State Councils for Education, Research and Technical Development of Sign Language as their own language?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1282	The representative Skei Grande is commendable enough in his interpellation concerned that deaf and heavily hard-heard should have the opportunity to participate in society. This is, of course, a goal that I can fully join. That was also the starting point of my reply of 15 February this year to questions for written answers, which the representative Skei Grande also refers to in his interview. In my answer, I stressed that good access to well-qualified and competent interpreters is an important prerequisite for deaf and hard-of-hearing to enter and participate actively in society. I would like to add here that this is an important premise on the way to achieving an overall goal of a universally accessible society for all. In the same reply, I also referred to the 2008 Interpretative Study, which was also addressed by the representative. It has been carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion at that time. The investigation was submitted on 30 May 2008. The study contains a number of proposals for the further development of services for deaf, deaf and hearing-impaired people. Some of the proposals in the investigation lie in the interface between higher education and the legislation currently managed in the Ministry of Labour. I have noted that in the investigation, among other things. it is proposed to establish a specialised interpreting training at a training establishment and to propose that Nav establish a provision for interpreters for further training. Furthermore, it is proposed that institutions offering interpretative training should draw up further training courses. I am aware that the Ministry of Labour will assess the 2008 Interpretative Survey in connection with the follow-up of NOU 2010:5 Active participation, equivalency and inclusion. The proposals for higher education in the investigation could naturally be included in a dialogue between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Knowledge. In the interview, the representative Skei Grande also refers to the language message, i.e. St.meld. No 35 for 2007-2008 Objectives and meaning. The communication of languages discusses aspects related to the position of sign language in society. The wholesale processing of the notification officially recognised Norwegian sign language as a full language. I fully agree with the representative’s assessment of the sign language as a language. It has been suggested that this be formalised by the inclusion of Norwegian sign languages in the scope of the General Language Law, which is intended to provide an overall framework for the overall language situation in Norway. This is supposed to be part of a larger language policy legislative work that the Ministry of Culture will start up in the near future. The language message also highlights the scope of sign language interpretation and other methods of communication. According to figures from the Norwegian Federation of Deaf People, it is approx. 5,000 deaf people with a clear need for sign language interpretation. There is no reason to assume that the need for interpretation services will be reduced in the future. Demographic developments, the so-called wave of old age, are also likely to lead to more deaf or heavily hard-to-heard people, often becoming adults. These may have difficulties in acquiring skills in sign language, and in this way interpreting will be an alternative form of communication. In higher education, the first sign language study offers were launched in the 1980s. The State School of Special Teachers established in 1989 a one-year full-time training of interpreters for hearing impaired persons. Today there are educational offers at the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen and the University of Southern Trøndelag. In higher education as a whole, it shall be a training offer corresponding to the needs of society. In general, the institutions themselves are responsible for determining which subjects, subjects, courses and training schemes are to be offered to the students, precisely on the basis of an assessment of the needs of society. Institutions have a responsibility to design their own strategy, set targets and allocate their resources in order to achieve this. In this way autonomy is ensured. At the same time, it provides institutions with flexibility in the development of education provision, so that it is adapted to the needs of society. Within these limits, the institutions themselves shall ensure that the professional development of the training provided by the institutions is carried out. It is therefore generally not that I can go in and manage the professional priorities that are done at institution level. Although institutions have professional autonomy, there are, however, some training requirements imposed on them by the Department. These are training courses where it is socially important to manage capacity nationally. For the Bachelor’s programmes at the Bergen and Southern European Colleges, activity requirements are set to ensure capacity. There are no equivalent activity requirements for sign language training at the University of Oslo. As you know, the University of Oslo now assesses the future operation of its study offerings in sign language and interpretation. I am made aware that the University of Oslo and the University of Oslo are in dialogue on the transfer of education to higher education. This will involve a business transfer such as: requires the involvement of added persons. The case has not yet been completed, but the ministry is now helping to clarify some legal issues. I'm sure a transfer to the University of Oslo could mean a strengthening of the education offer. The university already has a large proportion of its activities aimed at vocational training and has extensive experience with important professional challenges that are also relevant to interpreting training, such as: the relationship between educational practice and theory. They also have a dedicated centre for professional studies to stimulate research and critical reflection in professional studies. Higher education also has a number of other interpretation courses, and the transfer of education to higher education allows us to gain greater professional concentration and stronger professional development. The university could therefore be a good and natural port of interpretation training. I'm also familiar with the fact that if the Oslo University takes over this education, they have the opportunity to take up more students than the university has currently had. I am committed to strengthening any education at the university with several places of study. I would also point out that all higher education should be research-based. Institutions have a responsibility to ensure that education, research and professional and artistic development work maintains a high level of professional competence. A key element of this is strategic focus on research that provides a basis for good education. Institutions must also ensure that there is a good link between research and education. Therefore, training requirements also apply to research and professional development in the field concerned. Interpreting training environments are not wide and large enough to make their own research programmes appropriate. However, the Research Council has general research programmes for which the scientific community needs to position itself. An example is Education 2020, such as: shall strengthen the knowledge base for professional training and training and promote research at a high scientific level. The Ministry has recently met with representatives of user organisations where the question of the further training of sign language and interpreters was raised. The wishes of organisations expressed at this meeting can be summarised as follows: It is desirable to have more places of study in sign language. A review of the quality of these trainings and their further development is desirable in line with the differentiated needs of the user groups. I will consider how and to what extent the input from user organisations will be followed up. As mentioned, I want to get several places to study. The main objective is at least clear: high-quality technical language and interpretation training, training of well-qualified interpreters and ensuring good social participation by deaf and hard-to-heard people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1329	I would like to thank the Council of State for what I think was a good answer. She got very inside at the end. What I think is an important distinction between the beginning and the end of the Council of State posts, is that the beginning is very much about social policy, while the end, which is very important, I would like to challenge the Council of State to say a little bit more about it. When you recognise a language as an official language in Norway, you say something about culture and education around that language. In the case of Sami – Southern Sami, Lulesamian and the different dialects – we have had a recognition that there is actually cultural communication in the language. The deaf language is also a culture. Everything related to sign language and dissemination is also a cultural arena. And it's clear that if you're going to take care of a language, you can't just take care of a little bit or treat it as a social help to someone who needs it. You actually have to treat it as a language. Then culture, education, education and research in that area are very important. I have no strong opinion on which institution should have such a responsibility. I am well aware of what is happening in Oslo – which was also explained by the Council of State. The important thing for me is that the responsibility lies somewhere, that someone is responsible for following up this subject to the academic level that an official language should actually have. So it's important to make sure to connect to the professionals you want to offer this. That's what I want to focus on. Instead of thinking that they should help some deaf people, a certain quota of all those who are trained in that field should also be offered to have sign language in the profession. I should have liked to have the State Council's comment on my thoughts about making sign language a foreign language you can choose. Sick if it is below the level of education for which the Council of State is responsible, I think it would have been a very strong strength to develop the subject whose schools could offer sign language as a foreign language both for audiences and for others who use sign language in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1340	I would like to remind the representative, and the interpellant, that she herself started her article in the interpellation debate by saying that her question could have been raised to many councils. I would like to insist that this is as important for the Ministry of Labour's responsibilities as it is for the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture. There is one issue that has several sides, for both users and others who need sign language – whether it is the written interpretation or the use of sign language in order to be able to participate in all important areas of social, educational and cultural life. It has to do with both the Ministry of Labour's arrangements and with our arrangements in the field of education. But I would like to take the challenge from the interpellant seriously in terms of sign language both as part of our general language policy and as part of our important cultural communication. So here I think it's very well suited when this becomes, as it seems, a subject at the Oslo University, which, together with the other two colleges, can further develop a strategy for this, both as part of a professional training programme and as part of the research they're actually doing in the professional field, including the whole educational perspective and language policy. I actually think this could be a better way to anchor the development of sign language than a life at the University of Oslo where we saw that you were about to step it down. So I have great hope that the transfer that is about to be completed will be a successful start to a better life for everything that has to do with the deaf language and the sign language, and that we can also get there that, just as with the different variants of Sami, you can choose sign language as something you learn in addition to the necessary two languages that we have in Norwegian. So I'm in the discussion about this and I'd like to join in stimulating the colleges that this concerns, to participate in such a strategy further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1349	First, I want to thank the interpellant for including this theme in the hall today. Like her, I and the Workers' Party are concerned that deaf people should be given the opportunity to participate in society, those who are born deaf or with a weak hearing, as well as those who at adult age experience hearing loss. This government has a goal of a universal society for all, hence the law of universal design. Interpreters are central to deaf people being able to participate in society, and I greatly appreciate Skei Grande's commitment to this field here today. There is no doubt that education, research and professional development in sign language and interpretation are central to the social participation of deaf people. Drawing language has a long history. In some deaf schools, sign language was used in education as early as the late 1800s. But it was not until the 1970s that the teaching of all the deaf was changed to include different signs of words. As sign language research showed that sign language was a naturally developed language with its own grammatical characteristics, there was a fundamental change in the understanding of deaf people as a linguistic minority. On the website of the University of Southern Trøndelag, you can read that Norwegian sign languages are ‘both teaching languages and teaching subjects, and bilingualism is the goal of the training of deaf children and young people’ in today’s education. [[...]] From 1997 onwards, deaf children and young people with sign language as the first language are entitled to sign language and training. This has had consequences for the training of deaf people, their families and relatives and others associated with sign language users. Among other things, training in sign language has become an important part of the offer of parents to deaf and obese children and in the linguistic upgrading of teachers for deaf people. This is something educational institutions teaching sign language have had to take on board, and in view of this, it is natural that more education is needed to suit users, relatives and helpers, i.e. interpreters. It is also natural that we get more research and development in this field. However, I am sceptical that the Stortinget and the Council of State should interfere in the establishment and termination of studies at universities and colleges. Institutions shall have certain autonomy. In the case of sparse studies such as interpretation studies, there is no doubt that the ministry needs to be followed, so that these offers are not deleted from Norwegian educational institutions. I am therefore pleased with the clarification of the Council of State on the conditions of the three institutions offering interpretation training today, the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen and the University of Southern Trøndelag, and that there is an activity requirement for the two universities, but not for the University of Oslo. It is also gratifying to hear from the Council of State that there is now a solution between the University of Oslo and the University of Oslo that will save the study offer, where it may be possible to establish more places, and that there will be a strengthening of the offer. Once again, I would like to thank the interpellant for a good article, which shows how complex this topic is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1366	First, I would like to thank the representative Trine Skei Grande for addressing this important matter, for the training of a sufficient number of sign language interpreters. We are all aware of the importance of language and communication and the importance of being able to communicate and understand each other. This interpellation debate highlights today’s situation and what is now happening to deaf people or those who are so damaged by hearing that they need interpreters in different situations. It turns out that there are already too few sign language interpreters today, and when the University of Oslo has given priority to the interpretation study based on economic circumstances, and thus determined not to take students up to the study this year, the challenges they are facing in everyday life do not improve. That this can have serious and exclusive consequences with regard to many arenas and situations for the deaf, says itself. Even today, it is a problem for many deaf people, for example. in the case of medical visits, no interpreter is available. Communication with the doctor must be done by writing patches to each other. It is also important in the context of professional participation – many people with hearing impairments can be active if they receive interpreting help. It is also becoming difficult in the context of education. We have a goal that everyone should have equal opportunities for education and work. This objective is not met when hearing-impaired persons do not receive the interpreting service and access to education that they require. Both socially and economically, it is a great advantage to have a sufficient number of interpreters. It is important to prevent alienation in the big society. Everyone who has had the floor in the debate until now has fully agreed on this. As Secretary-General of the Landsförbund, Geir Lippestad, stated: Interpreters are not only important in job relationships, but also in social life. For example, hundreds of people were delighted to experience ‘Mama Mia’ because the piece was interpreted. Hearing impaired people from all over the country came to Oslo and got a good cultural experience. This must not only be reserved for Oslo, it must be much more common than for the quite country that hearing-impaired and deaf people receive such an offer. This theme was also covered by broad treatment in Stortinget in connection with St.meld. No 35 for 2007-2008 Objectives and meaning. A holistic Norwegian language policy. In the debate on the communication of languages, a number of self-criticisms were expressed by members of the government, not least by Minister of Culture Giske, who argued that a red-green government needed to give an official status to the sign language. The party of progress was, and is, glad that sign language is now recognized as a full language by the fact that it was enshrined in the law, but anchoring something in the law is not good enough. There must be a willingness to ensure the training of sign language interpreters with financial commitment and political organisation. If not, there will be only the parties again, and then each of us will interpret the government's handling of the matter. Good access to deaf interpreters is important for deaf and highly hearing-impaired people to participate in society. It's also something that everyone agrees on. The Progress Party will not intervene in academic freedom, but it must be allowed to ask questions about the priorities of the institutions that will reduce interpreting training. It must also be allowed to ask questions about the government's refusal to commit itself to ensuring that deaf and severely hard-of-heard people get involved in society. We must ensure that interpretation education is maintained and provide long-term and predictable funding for this. Everyone's coming, the government said. The Progress Party believes that this should also apply to the hearing impaired. State Council Aasland is in favour of the University of Oslo taking over the deaf interpretation, and I think that was a very good signal that helped to beat the legs under what I said here earlier, but the government has not shown any action to do at this time in this case. In fact, the most important thing for us in the Progress Party is not who has the education, but who does the education. As far as Trine Skei Grande is concerned about sign language as a foreign language electoral profession, and preferably already at primary school level, there can be a good solution in both the short and long term for deaf people to participate in all aspects of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1392	I notice that the Progress Party also has a somewhat broad definition of the concept of academic freedom in this debate. It is affordable for the interpellant to re-examine the situation of the deaf group in Norway. She has also done so earlier, in a written question, and Right Elisabeth Aspaker did so earlier this year. So we're more concerned about the risk we're running that the educational capacity of sign language interpreters, or deaf interpreters, which is probably the term used in everyday speech, is going to be reduced in the years that come. The paradox is that this can happen while many teams report increased needs and difficulties in obtaining interpreters when ordering. It is, of course, a further paradox that, through the treatment of the so-called language message, the Storting has recognised sign language as an official language, thus granting the deaf increased rights, while at the same time making it possible to make use of these rights worse. At the heart of this case is, therefore, ensuring the training of a sufficient number of sign language interpreters to meet the needs of the coming years. The education is currently taking place at the University of Oslo and at the universities of Bergen and Sør-Trøndelag. As we have already heard in the debate, there is now a proposal to abandon education in Oslo, as the Council of State said in its speech. In the answer given by the Minister of Culture at Elisabeth Aspaker's written question dated 3 May this year, it is said that access to sign language interpreters is the critical factor. The Minister for Culture further calls for ‘a more comprehensive approach to safeguard and develop the interests and rights of sign-language users’ and ‘will therefore consider in the near future, in consultation with other departments concerned, how best to proceed with the matter’, i.e. in the near future. I do not know whether the time has already taken place for the near future, but a legislative proposal on the law-making of the text- and interpretation-offer on TV is at least announced for the coming year. I have a great deal of understanding that the follow-up to different parts of the language message itself for this relatively demarcated area requires investigations, evaluations and coordination between different departments. However, it is alarming that such a central response as educational capacity could be significantly reduced while thinking about it. The right would therefore be behind the call from user organisations to the Council of State to take action to ensure adequate training capacity for deaf interpreters already now and, above all, to ensure the continuation of the training offer in Oslo. That is why we are very pleased with the dialogue that has now been established with the Oslo University School, which the Council of State has set up, and we have great expectations that the offer can be expanded and perhaps made even better if the Oslo College takes over this important education offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1406	Interpellant Skei Grande addresses a fundamental issue, namely how we can use the education system to ensure that everyone can participate in society. The goal of a universally designed society is more than physical organisation; it is also about other practical assistance in everyday life, such as: interpretation. For deaf people and people with hearing impairment, it is essential to have a qualitative and available interpretative service. The right is enshrined in the People's Security Act, but we know that today's offer is flawed. One example is particularly striking: when the Swedish Federation of Hearing Officers was discussing the follow-up to the Interpreting Investigation at Stortinget, it was not possible to retrieve the interpreter. It is clear that the need to train interpreters is great. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State has a special focus on the study offer in sign language and interpretation. The transfer of education from the University of Oslo to the University of Oslo is in progress, and it is important that this is actively followed up by the department, so that both such training provision is maintained in the region, capacity is increased and professional quality is safeguarded in order to further develop the offers. For the Centre Party, it is also important that the recommendations of the Interpretative Investigation, inter alia: followed-up of interpreting training. The government has done a lot of positive work to raise the status of sign language. As both the interpellant and the Council of State were involved, sign language was officially recognised as a full language for the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 2007-2008 Objectives and meaning. As the Council of State also pointed out, several of the proposals contained in the Interpreting Study are in the intersection of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Knowledge's work. It is now more than two years since the investigation was on the table, and the departments must cooperate closely on the follow-up. The need for interpretation services and organisation will increase in the coming years. An interesting perspective that the Council of State drew up was the importance of the increasing number of older people in the future and the challenges associated with hearing impairment in this group. It is therefore clear that the municipalities are also a central player in the development of the best possible offer for them. At the same time, there is a lot of exciting development work in health technology that is also very relevant to deaf people and those with hearing impairment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1419	The interpellant brings up an important and very topical theme. I can tell you that the Progress Party at its national meeting sent direct interpretation for hearing impaired people. I encourage other parties to follow up on that, because it is important that hearing impaired people too can follow the political debate – even when there are direct transmissions. Maybe it could also be like this on TV every time. So the Progress Party takes this seriously. You talk a lot about the inclusive society. Everyone is going, everyone is going to have the right to education and work. The prerequisite for participation is too many to get organized or to get the necessary assistance. Recently, I sent a question to the Council of State Bjurstrøm – there are many government councils that are affected by this. It was in connection with the fact that eleven hearing-impaired first-year students did not receive interpreting help when they started their studies. That is, students are not being granted their rights. It's not easy to start studying when you don't understand what's being taught. The limited capacity of the interpreter service has been well known for a very long time. Although culture and leisure have been down-priority, there is now a lack of capacity for both students and others who need interpreting services when they are going out to work. Nav’s website has read the following: ‘We note that we cannot guarantee that all students who need an interpreter will receive it when they start new studies. We are set to give priority to students who are already in an ongoing course of study." But they'll still try to help. So there's little predictability for those who want to start studies, whether they'll understand and be able to follow the studies in the same line with others. So the certainty that you want to benefit from the studies is not there. That's not new, I guess you have a long time. In the 2008 Interpretative Study, 25 proposals for improvements were made and have not been followed up. It's almost three years ago. Governments are now saying that they will assess different measures in 2011, but this is urgent! Interpreting services are increasingly needed. There has been a reference to the training of an interpreter — there is a alarming need for it. It's not enough with a course to be educated as an interpreter. It is a training that requires high quality to function properly. We are in a situation where many hearing impaired people are actually prevented from participating in both work, education and leisure. They are not granted their rights. I now hope that the various Councils will come together and agree on how to solve this problem quickly, and that education and capacity will be raised, so that those in need of this assistance will receive the assistance they have the right and the right to demand, and that they can have the opportunity to participate in society in the way they are told to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1441	I think it has become a fine debate, and I am very happy that all the parties participated – I then consider the Council of State to be SVs. It gives us hope that much has to happen. But I very much agree with Giltun's representative that there is a lot of work that has been done in this field. There are a lot of promises that are given, but that are also broken. So this is essentially about rights to activity and rights to participation. Clearly, we can do a lot with our political system as well. Just as the Progress Party deafly interpreted its national meeting, we tried to put out all the brochures in the election campaign in sign language – and that is all the possibilities that YouTube and other online solutions provide for poor parties as well. I would encourage all the other parties to think about how to mobilise this group to even greater political participation. It's a challenge both for the Storing and for our party systems. The last thing I'm going to come up with is a call to the Council of State to really follow up these promises and also to make sure that the entire government is able to follow this up. If we're going to be able to make the promise that it's saying that sign language is going to be an official language, and that it's going to be more than a comment in a big message, it's pretty important that she gets all the councils around the Council of State for a common plan on how to raise this language properly. It's not just about money, it's also about will.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1450	It is quite clear that this is a matter of will, and I thought I was fairly clear in my first post on the necessary concrete follow-up to the education in Oslo, which will follow with a possible transfer to the University of Oslo. I was clear about saying that in case we get an explanation of where this education is going to be, we will go to several places of study, and we will be able to see the education in sign language and by interpreters in connection with important knowledge development both at the university – i.e. the University of Oslo – and at the other two places where this is happening today, namely the University of Bergen and the University of Southern Trondelag. So training enough interpreters is my specific goal no. 1, which is the responsibility of higher education, perhaps of universities – but above all of higher education. We will achieve that by providing more places of study. As the organizations themselves said in meeting the department, which I referred to, it is also desirable to review the quality of these educations and the further development of education in line with differentiated needs in the user groups. We also need to take that with us and stimulate those responsible for the provision of study facilities, so that they are willing to look critically at the studies in order to renew them and make them as best they can, in line with the needs of society. I also want to mention that, on the other hand, in order for students to develop their studies and practice their education in relation to the universities and colleges in which they go, in this year's budget, we have proposed a better funding for students with disabilities in particular. Obviously, you are deaf, you need a deaf interpreter first and foremost, but you can also need a better financial basis to get help with what you need extra in your study everyday life. I am convinced that a better student funding for disabled students will also help those students who are deaf. But the first and most important responsibility is to train enough deaf interpreters. There we set up the process that is now between the University and the University, and I have great faith that it will lead to that in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim we now have a very good basis for training deaf interpreters. Then I take seriously the proposals that have been put forward in the debate on important cooperation and interaction with other government councils and should, of course, follow up on the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1463	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1469	The so-called alternate of the Nordland County, Kari Storstrand, has now taken its seat. It is to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1557	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1567	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1587	In Case No: 3–7 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-12.ana.ud1034e1618	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
