ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e26	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Arne Bergsvåg, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e48	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Kristin Halvorsen Anniken Huitfeldt Rigmor Aasrud The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We'll start with the first main questions from Mette Hanekamhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e67	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen. According to the Government’s proposal, schools should be required to provide homework from the first to the fourth stages. There are few indications of how this is to be implemented. It has been pointed out that a skilled worker's wage is taken into account in the cost calculation. So there is no competence requirement for those who are going to do homework. The Education Association points out that this may result in the scheme being subject to supervision over learning. Most recently, research has been published to show that lessons have little effect and can contribute to increased social differences if they are not given or followed up satisfactorily. When there is no requirement for competence for those to follow up in the Government’s homework proposal, we can face major challenges. My question is therefore as follows: Does the Council of State believe that the recent research results make it relevant to the introduction of skills requirements related to those who are required to carry out homework in primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e76	First, I must say that I welcome a debate on homework. I think a lot of people have had a sense that a good teacher is a teacher who gives a lot of lessons, a demanding school is a school that has a lot of homework, and a teacher who is more restrained and perhaps conscious of how to give lessons is a lazy fish. It's not like that. On the contrary, you have to be very conscious of what kind of homework you give and how you follow them up, so that you can support it during your education and be positive. It's true that research shows that if you give undiscovered lessons, too much lessons, homework that introduces learning that you haven't been through in hours, or don't follow up and correct lessons, it can work the opposite and strengthen the social differences instead of fighting them. This is a very important and important debate. So in relation to homework, there's a lot of kids being told that they can't go home from school and be done with their work day. Lessons should support those who want to get more help at school to finish lessons, and who may be among those children who do not have parents who are easy to ask for help when they come home. What we have proposed, and which the Progress Party has supported in the 2010 state budget, is that two hours of free homework should be introduced for 1 to 4. the stage from the harvest. Because it's between 1 and 4. Steps have been taken to set the competence requirements, as the representative Hanekamhaug is in; teacher’s competence is not required, but 25 pst. the allocation shall be used to facilitate and train. What we're doing now is being very conscious of how we're going to do this homework. It's two hours a week for all children from 1 to 4. class, it is free and is not about whether or not they go to the SFO. But now we have to make sure that this gets such a device that it won't be an offer to the kids who are happy in school already, but to those who need some extra help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e83	I thank the Minister for the answer and am pleased that she agrees with several of the views of the Progress Party in this area. One of the challenges of this action is that no guidance is provided on how to implement it. Several schools have suggested that they want to do it as part of the SFO. What we know is that it's often the students with middle-aged parents, or resource-intensive parents, who have the opportunity to go to the SFO, while those who don't have it, don't have the same opportunity. Does the Council of State see that this can help to strengthen the already existing trend in Norwegian school, where it can be seen to reproduce the social differences we already have in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e92	First, I would like to commend the representative Hanekamhaug, because I had expected the Progress Party to come from the opposite side of the lecture debate. That's how I've often perceived the Progress Party before, that this with requirements for homework was the proof that we had a real knowledge school. So I think this is true that we can get a more informed, knowledgeable debate about homework. I'd like to give that honor to the representative. So how we organize this: It's true that some schools plan to connect it to the SFO, but it's an offer for all children, including those who don't usually go to the SFO – so it's going to be wider than that. That it is linked to the SFO cannot exclude children who do not go to the SFO. We know that it's very important, for example. with regard to children with a minority background, who may be some of those who need this most. We have a rather demanding balance to go when we're going to introduce this, because we know that homework that is targeted on those that we know are struggling a little bit at school, becomes a homework that doesn't work. But a homeworker who primarily appeals to those who are good at school from before, is also a homeworker who doesn't work. We're now working on how to find the quality of this, so that one reaches the goal. But the starting point is a teacher who gives good lessons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e101	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bente Thorsen. Next follow-up question is from Elisabeth Aspaker. [[Elisabeth Aspaker goes to the pulpit.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e106	The next additional question is from Elisabeth Aspaker, the first is from Bente Thorsen!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e111	It is very nice that you are eager to ask questions!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e116	Here's a fight to ask questions, and that's good! The minister received a full report from the Time Management Committee just before Christmas. The report revealed, not unexpectedly, that teachers want to spend more of their time in education, professional follow-up, professional meetings and development of competences. So teachers will spend more of their working time on what's at the core of school. Is the Minister willing to follow these advice given in the report, and to continue reducing tasks that teachers spend a lot of time on, so as to free up time for education and homework as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e125	Absolutely! The Time Management Committee is very specific in its proposals on what you think teachers and school can spend more time on, and what they can spend less time on. Teachers are very clear on what they want to spend more time on: they are students – whether they are preparing for hours, working hours or after-work related to hours. What teachers say first and foremost takes a lot of time is general meeting activities, i.e. meeting activities related to teaching, but general meeting activities. I think a lot of schools can do a lot of work on it. What I'm doing now is tying up everything we suggest to the school, thinking about what this requires of time, not for us, the department or the directorate, but for the teacher. That's point one. Point two: I would like to come back to Stortinget with how we are going to follow up the proposals of the Time Management Committee. It's about good school management, for example. Point three: I encourage the municipalities and local authorities to discuss what is in the Time Usage Committee's report, because they are school owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e141	Then are the next follow-up questions — a lot of signs of urgency — from Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e144	I'll try again! Lessons are important for the processing and safety of subjects, and lessons must be given in such a way that students have the opportunity to master their homework. The purpose of the homeworker has also not been achieved without proper feedback. Right-wing believes it's unfortunate that there's created uncertainty about homework in school. Has the Council reflected on how this debate on homework or not homework may have occurred? And does the Council of State agree with the Right that homework is an important part of the adapted training and important to allow students to gain greater professional security?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e153	The research that has now been presented is not politically censored, but it shows that there are good and bad lessons, that there are good and bad ways of working with homework, and that homework such as these is not among the things that have the greatest effect. It's the teacher and the quality of the teacher that has the greatest effect in school, no matter how we turn it around. A good teacher gives lessons that are the repetition of drugs that you've been through, and that the students are explained, you don't introduce new knowledge through the homework. A good lesson is also a lesson you get feedback on. What happens often in this field, I've noticed, it's going to be a discussion: what works, what doesn't work, and how do you do it? I am absolutely sure that a lot of kids now hold up the research in front of the teacher and say: It says here – lessons don’t work, so we have to let that go! What I'm considering is holding a consensus conference and having the lesson issue as a pilot project to bring together professionals – practitioners and researchers – discuss how we use homework best, and agree on some sort of minimum as to what kind of place lessons should have in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e162	The next follow-up question is from Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e165	I think the debate on homework is important. What may surprise me a little bit is that every time the parental perspective is highlighted in the lecture debate, it's in the context of the parents who can't follow up. Because there are some challenges to the system that it is now being put up to by the Government. As a parent said to me, what should I do when I want to use SFO – good offer – but will do the homework with my child? When the homework is going to be on the SFO, how are we gonna do it? When the Council of State here mentioned this consensus conference, she also forgot the important group of parents and parents. That's how homework is actually one of the few ties parents have with the school today. Some schools offer training for parents to secure them in the role of teaching assistants and co-workers in connection with it. My simple question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State also bring parents forward as a resource in the discussion we now have about homework, and not just focus on the parents who are unable to help the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e174	In any case, it is in all areas of school that parents are a resource that is incredibly important to involve, including in the field of homework. But what's the big challenge with regard to the research we have on homework is that lessons given in a crazy way can increase the differences, among other things. because those students who have not had lessons at school depend on their parents perhaps explaining rather than being part of the rehearsing or rehearsing of things they have gone through. So the big concern about homework is that they have to be given in such a way that it doesn't increase the social differences in school. And of course, it's very important that parents are aware of how they can support their homework, but it's also a call for parents not to measure the quality and knowledge of school based on the amount of homework the students get, because it gives a completely wrong picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e181	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e184	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Reading research centres in Stavanger have estimated that 330,000 adults have very poor reading and writing skills, but that as many as 950,000 read less than they should. At the same time, we know that reading requirements have been expanded and strengthened in most professions, and the amount of information that needs to be processed in people's everyday lives is constantly increasing. The risk of exclusion from work is obvious, but in addition, adult literacy skills are important from an inclusive perspective. The Bondevik II government introduced a right to primary education for adults and launched the ‘New Chance’ programme for workers with weak basic skills to receive training at the workplace. The right has promoted a number of proposals for increased investment in this field, and a total increase has asked the Government to follow up – without having seen the results of it so far. On the contrary, the Ministry of Knowledge has received strong criticism from the National Audit Office for the lack of control and follow-up of the offer to adults with poor basic skills. In concrete terms, the right has proposed the launch of a 10-year national initiative on adults with lack of basic skills, because we believe it is so important in a broad societal perspective. My question to the Council of State will then be: Can she explain what the Government will do to bring the adult's right to training into line with the training offered to this group today and to prevent further exclusion from the labour market as a result of lack of literacy skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e197	That's a very important question that's being addressed here. In my opinion, the key is to find the most effective measures we can take to prevent high sick leave and early disability, right here, because we know that many of those who do not have education beyond primary school, or who have little knowledge of reading, are among those who later have problems in their professional life, which can be prevented by good training. We have followed up on the right to training, as the Bondevik government introduced. We have increased the budgets, including: for the current year — to implement what is called the Basic Skills Programme in the workplace, which is literacy training related to enterprises. And here I think some of the country's bravest students go. It is very shameful not to be able to read well when you are an adult, and it is very brave to sign up for a reading course in their workplace. It's very important for me to bring forward all the good examples of adults who will gain greater competence at a later stage. This is largely not about the fact that you can't read the letters or read a text, but about the understanding of the text. I believe that this work is the most important thing we can relate to the discussion on sick leave and disability insurance. The government has increased its efforts over the budgets for this type of training. We have a lot to go on. We also need to make the threshold to sign up for this type of course lower. I think it's a good idea from the Right to focus on this over a longer period — a decade — because it's simply so that very many adults have had too little benefit from the school, and remembers back to their schooling as a long number of years of lack of mastering. It's a lot to pick up on getting in early.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e208	It is good to hear that the Minister of Knowledge agrees that this is a very important area to address — but the more disappointing to note that since 2005, after the Bondevik II government went off, virtually nothing has happened. The criticism of the Riksrevision came in 2008, despite the fact that the Storting had focused heavily on this area and had asked the Government to act. So the government is on its heels. But I now hear a bid for improvement. From the Center for Reading Research, we now also hear about examples from primary school, where the waiting time for dyslexics to get help can come up for as much as three years. When we know how important it is to get that help – and considering what this can lead to later – I want to ask the Council of State what she will do to ensure that dyslexics in primary school, that is, young dyslexics, get the help they need as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e215	It is to give an absolutely totally wrong picture to say that in recent years it has not been focused on what is involved in increasing the basic competence of adults. These are the main proposals in the Single European Act, which is now being discussed in the United Kingdom, and which concern the education line. We have over time increased the appropriations for this type of training. We're going to have a full focus on this and follow it up very closely. The picture Aspaker paints – paradise conditions before and desert migration now – is completely wrong. This is it strongly focused on. In addition, I would like to say that this year we will have the National Year of Reading, which is a collaboration between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge, which is aimed at adults – to increase the readership of the population. With regard to the offer to dyslexics, I would like to look into this a little bit more – get me a good overview of where the offer is. A great many of these problems are now known, knowledge that would mean that you can deal with them in early school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e225	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e228	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Culture. The Minister of Knowledge was in the National Year of Reading. It's a great move. It is the beginning of the national lesion lift, which will last for a few years. The book industry is an exciting industry. There are many exciting actors who have previously also been able to pull important loads in terms of literature interest and – I think – read-only. It is therefore with some wonder that I have noticed that when we are now in the first month of the academic year, it does not seem that neither the publishing house, the bookstore association, the author's association, nor any of the players in the bookstore with whom I have regularly contacted have heard something specific about the academic year – and much less have been involved in some work on what to do. My question to the Minister of Culture is: Wouldn't it have been a good idea to engage in the book industry, engage those who are knowingly working with books and reading in this country, and involve them in this work? How is this going to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e239	The President must be allowed to point out that there might be a somewhat sought-after connection between the main question and the follow-up question that was now asked. Given that we are in a new year and are going to be a little liberal, it is nevertheless up to the Minister of Culture if she wants to answer the question as a follow-up question to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e242	It's true, as the minister of knowledge says, that the theme for the academic year is adults who don't read that much, or adults who have weak reading skills. This means that we have started cooperation with the social partners in order to support some of the projects they have undertaken and will set in motion in the coming year, in order to ensure that we get more reading among adults. But it is also important, as the representative says, to cooperate with the Association of Authors, with the Center of Authors, with the Library Association and with all actors who are willing and interested in doing a job. We have started such a work, and in a very short time we are going to present the plans we have for the academic year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e247	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e250	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Being able to master Norwegian in writing and orally is very important, and it also shows that early work in primary school is important and necessary. We are also responsible for another group: in Norway, we have accepted many more asylum seekers than we have managed to integrate into society. Many have been here for many years without being able to speak Norwegian, either in writing or orally. I hope for an answer to the question, and not a counter-attack. What concrete measures and instruments will the Minister take to ensure that residents with foreign origin also learn Norwegian, which gives them more opportunity to participate in the labour market, as well as to reduce the obstacles to non-Norwegian knowledge — the fact that they do not master the language used in the country in which they live — provide? It's very important, because it's not easy to live and live in a society. We don't know if it's voluntary or involuntary because they don't know how to speak. I hope the question came out clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e257	We have put down a separate sample, for example. address these issues, which concern minority languages and how they develop languages. Someone they've focused on is what we call late arrivals, that is, youth coming to Norway when they're quite big or adults. I spoke to them yesterday, and they put forward a partial position to invite them to a debate on the conclusions to be reached. I really recommend it to those who are concerned about these questions in general, there are many important discussions. Which is very important to be aware of, is that it takes a very long time to learn a language well. We've now increased the number of hours for the introduction program. You have to assume that it may take between four and six years to learn a language so well that you're fully operational in many contexts, and that's why this is incredibly important. I also think it is important to link Norwegian training to work training, and I do not think that you should first learn Norwegian and then you should get to work. Here it's very much to pick up a collaboration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e264	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e267	In these themes are the disappointments and failures of many beautiful people, people who have often been met with a lot of ignorance about not being able to read and write. Some simple grips can be done, and some dumps in the way would have been easy to remove, so that you might get a little further off the farm. For example, the Education Directorate now has a performance requirement for the Huseby Competence Centre, which produces audiobooks that can be a great help in the school, especially for those with dyslexia. The performance requirement means that schools now have to pay a fee of NOK 160 per year. The audiobook, which makes it possible in a stressed school situation to choose not to use audiobooks, but rather to try other ways of doing this. There are many who have been upset about, and my simple question to the Council of State is, Will she remove that dump in the way of those who have dyslexia?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e272	I think I have to be allowed to get into these 160 kroner completely concretely, before I give an answer to that. But I will take it with me, and then the representative Dagrun Eriksen will get an answer at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e277	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e281	I have a question for the knowledge minister, so she can just stay standing. We are currently seeing joyous new rates of school policy from the new Minister of Knowledge. In meeting with Skole-Norway, the message is now much more in line with the course that the Christian People's Party took during the last big period, but which was perhaps then met with a little more deaf ears, namely the fight against apostasy through more practical school bets and a good professional education, a force in the fight against bullying – and that you should have more teachers. I hope that soon she might also talk about getting other professional groups into school. That being said, of course, it's going to be a but. Why all day long does this government spend the money on wrong measures in relation to the challenges that the Minister of Knowledge has now addressed? What we've seen from this government hasn't been that you've been betting on the fight against apostasy and spent the big money on it. It has not been the intention of having a good professional education for the students who want it. We haven't seen a power cap in the fight against bullying. What we've seen is the dream of the whole day school, that we're going to get more hours into school, more theories for the very least, and until now – I've asked a lot of times – you haven't been able to show research that it gives us more learning, maybe rather the opposite. It doesn't like party speeches to address the challenges that the school is facing. It's not just about knowing the real issues, it doesn't help students master, but it's about being able to spend the big money in other areas than just creating more hours. So my challenge to the Council of State is: In the name of the postwar clock, and with the new experience that this government now has, do you see that you have spent money and prioritised mistakes in school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e290	It's always a good sign when the opposition comes and says that finally the Council of State says what we've meant for a long time, because that means that many want to take credit for having put a political course that many see as reasonable. I'm extremely concerned about the school's ability to combat differences, the incredible opportunity we have to get more people to complete their higher education, and the incredible opportunity we as a society have for individuals and individuals to succeed better, get more control of their lives, also financially. We got a report at the Rome Christmas that shows that if we get the drop from high school down from 30 pst. For 20 p.m., we can do it per cent. Coal saving between 5 and 9 billion kroner. The solution for sick leave and early disability is clear. Because we know that those who have not completed high school are very strongly overrepresented among social assistance clients, young people who are disabled and sick, this is the solution to include people in society, to get young people to implement, but also to give access to adults who have received poor education. So I have full pressure on this. Now it's like the Norwegian school has fewer hours on average than the OECD average. We're about. nine hours below primary school. We've increased the number of hours, but we didn't increase as much as we really had ambitions about in Soria Moria I. That's because we've weighted a little bit differently, among other things. relative to teacher's density, and e.g. ensuring that early efforts were followed up, because we wanted to use more teaching resources in the first to fourth phase. class, so that we could quickly address the challenges. But going as far as the Christian People's Party suggests in its budgets, spending hours, is a billion-dollar savings in school that is not a good investment. Focusing on practical training and on the professions, especially in high school, I think is very important. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e299	Now are the hours we've been through, just those that the government has had in its school effort, so we haven't taken away hours that have been there. We think it's a completely wrong priority this government has done. Especially in relation to the challenges that the Council of State addresses, and which she begins with in the answer I forgot to thank for – as I do now – she forgets a little that an actually then has to intervene to meet this. I was in high school in Kristiansand. There the principal says to me that today it is such that practical strong students have often not received mastery from home, because it is no longer such that we can tick the cars, or that the houses are built so that you can try the hammer. In the budget debate we had a big discussion about it for professional students was important to know Ibsen. I think we can quite agree that it may be important that you have basic competence about it. But even more concerned, Councillor, I am that not the discussion then goes on: isn't it as important to be able to use a hammer as to know Ibsen? That discussion is completely missing. Do you now want to spend the big money just to get into a practical challenge in school that gives mastery to all students, including those who are practically strong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e308	It's well to draw Ibsen something far to say that Nora would have let go if there was more practical knowledge in the home there. But just to underline: it's a very unisoned desire from professionals, from professionals, from professionals, from professionals, and from all professionals, to get a more practical theory education. What we also know is that if we force young people to choose their life course at a very early age, and that they, for example. choose from the possibility of study competence, it locks young people in some educational pathways that are also unlucky. So I think the main challenge lies in how we're going to be able to get the theoretical knowledge instruction in the professional subjects relevant, professionally. A lot of the states, like Oslo, who has succeeded in her drop-off projects, has just done it, so I have a full focus on it. [[The President clubs.]] I want to work with Dagrun Eriksen and everyone else about this. I also think high school deserves a little more attention from us. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e315	The President must be allowed to remind – not least the Council of State – that the clock at the front of the pulpit is counting down, and when it comes to zero, the speaking time is out. Then you're supposed to land, and not take off.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e318	The President will excuse me for my commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e323	There will be four follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e326	In the government's priority in school policy, it's probably the high school that may have come most in the shade. Despite strong warnings, such as: So from the Christian People's Party, the government chooses to let the high school sail a little like its own sea. But it is in high school that we find the main challenges, including: in the case of fighting and unrest and theoretical students. There's reason to believe that this continues to propagate and leads to us having the dramatic high rate of non-response in higher education. It does not help with early efforts and that ‘all are going’ in the early years when the measures are completed and the students are forgotten as soon as they come to high school. So we also have to make high school a master's arena. When pupils are short in theory, they must also be able to be offered a more practical school day. My simple question is, what is the reason why the Government believes youth is less important than the other steps?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e333	Fortunately, we don't. The representative of Becquerad's right is, of course, that high school is a demanding part of school time, because it happens a lot to those who go to high school, and fourteen is a very special people that everyone should love, but that's a bit demanding. It flies hormones, and a poor teacher has to stand there and sort it out. We see a lot that not necessarily the physical breakdown, although it's also a problem in high school, but the mental -- that you don't follow, that you tell yourself that you don't have ambitions, that you don't understand the meaning of it, or you think you're just sitting and waiting to grow up and all this -- we can take on in a much more offensive way than we can do now. We know that those who have a lot of non-response are at risk of dropping out later. We are now conducting a survey in high school to capture those who have poor knowledge of Norwegian and math, quickly, so that we can put the effort there. The discussion of theory and practice must go hand in hand, because it is not about either theory or practice, it is about making the theory practical and professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e342	Mette Hanekamhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e345	Unlike the Christian People's Party, we in the Progress Party are positive in increasing the number of hours and believe that it is an important priority. But these hours are also going to be filled with something. And research has repeatedly shown that the number of teachers per year. students have little or no effect on the quality of school. Nevertheless, the Government has promised this as one of the most important measures. But according to the journal Education, there is a great deal of disagreement within government parties about how much this teaching density should actually be. SV has previously arranged to quantify this with 15 students per person. teacher. So what we in the Progress Party are asking is simply: what is the government's policy in this area? And have you been able to agree on a specific number in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e351	What the government agrees on is that we need a greater government management of the resources of the school, related to a resource standard or a change in the training law that ensures a certain number of teachers compared to the number of students. We're working on that right now, so I don't have a number to come with right now. Let me nuance this discussion something. It is true that cleaning up with teachers of uneven quality is not the solution for Norwegian school. A teacher of good quality is the most important success factor for Norwegian school. But we also have a good effect of high teacher density, especially in the earliest class stages, and especially for students with a demanding social background. So we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time in the discussion about what works in school, or many, but at least these two.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e358	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e361	I want to follow up on what the Council of State was at the end, that of the many things we can discuss, teachers of high quality are an important factor in school. Then we'll probably be able to discuss the teacher's density. However, several of the measures taken by the Government are measures that require more teachers. It is a strong desire to get more teachers, and it is important to have teachers who have completed a good education. At the same time, we now see that one in five study places are available. We see that there is a great disqualification in this education, and we know that in the years to come, the great coal of the teachers who are in school today, who retire. It worries us. I'm assuming it's a concern to the Council of State. That is why we are excited about what actions the Council of State and the Government have now assessed and will start to ensure recruitment, good teachers and enough teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e368	We have a cooperation that we call GNIST. There is a cooperation between different parties – the Education Association, the KS, the Ministry of Knowledge and many others – that interests us to recruit teachers for the school, and we have been able to recruit very many teachers for study admissions in the autumn. There was a huge increase in the number of applications for teacher training. We have great ambitions, and we are now doing extensive work around where teachers too are engaged in advertising why it is so important to choose teacher training, why teacher training is so meaningful. I'm not so afraid that there's some lack of teacher training, because it's a goal that those who find that they don't fit to teach at school will be quick – not at a later stage of teacher training, or maybe long after they start teaching. That's exactly one of the things that we're focusing on. Then we are doing a significant shift in teacher training — more practice, more professional immersion — which is also part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e375	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e378	I'm going to follow up right where the Council of State stopped. It is very good that there will be an increased recruitment, it is good that there are many applicants, but it will take some time before they get out to Norwegian school. And we have a problem today, for 40 pst. by primary school teachers over 50 years of age, and 50 pst. teachers in secondary school are over 50 years of age. We also think that many of them will end before they have to. We see that the government does not want to put any action into action to get them to stand on a little extra. We also see that within some disciplines, as stated in the morning paper on Friday, it is soon empty for real-time teachers in Norway. So there are actually some steps to get the good teachers to stand in a few more years to get access to the good teachers, etc. What will the Council of State do to get it to?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e385	It's a perfectly correct picture the representative gives that there are many good adult teachers in Norwegian school. That's why we're so focused on recruitment. Unfortunately, there are quite a number of teachers, I think, who are now sitting and planning to get rid of the AFP, who could certainly have contributed to Norwegian school in the future. We have changed the pension system so that they are also financially well earned to continue their work. Senior actions related to this group of teachers are incredibly important, as it is the teachers who are the most important asset manager in Norway. We work systematically to enable those who have been in school for a long time to be able to complete their professional training through continuing training. We work systematically to ensure that those who want new challenges, such as: will apply for a post of Vice-Chancellor, will receive training related to it. It's one of the things that teachers themselves say is crucial to seeing the school as a meaningful job even after a long professional life there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e392	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e395	I have a question for the Minister of Volunteers. Celebrations are held about the importance of volunteering — about all those who work there, about all those who contribute, and about all the hundreds of thousands of hours spent volunteering in Norway. Celebrations are also held on the importance of volunteering for Norway and on the overall functioning of Norway. Voluntary activities have a higher value than Norwegian agriculture has in Norway. It's important to bring it with you. But we have an obligation to help the volunteer. We have an obligation to facilitate volunteering. A total exemption from VAT for voluntary activities would therefore have been the right thing to do. That the volunteer – sports team, rescue team – will pay 25 pst. more for a snowmobile than for a high mountain hotel, or for the City Commission, which offers drug users, to pay 25 pst. more for detergents, food and equipment than a street kitchen does is not correct. There are major challenges to volunteering today. Several cultural ministers and the Government have promised a compensation scheme from 1 January this year that they have not been able to deliver. This is frustrating for volunteering. It was also promised that more money would be given through Norwegian Typing, but Norsk Typing does not provide more money for volunteering than they do today. Losses of automatic receipts are also subject to fraud. The reason for the loss of automatic income was that there was some grievance around these revenues. You can see today that what hunted me is probably ugly also in Norwegian Typing. So my questions to the Council of State are: Will the Cancer Association lose on this new VAT compensation scheme? Will the Cancer Society Keep Its Income? And: Is the Minister of Volunteers willing to see if volunteering can take over Norwegian Typing, so we're dropping this gruesome?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e408	The President will draw attention to the fact that 'I am' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e411	The representative made a number of claims in his question that do not lead to correctness. One is about a VAT compensation scheme. It's set at 200 million. NOK extra in the State budget for this purpose, so that this scheme now has 396 million. kr. We'll have a code in place in a short time, but we can apply for VAT compensation in retrospect. But the time that this VAT compensation scheme starts to work is 1 January 2010, so we are in no way delayed in this area. Then I would also like to remind you that in recent times we have introduced a grassroots fraction in Norwegian Typing which the Progress Party has voted against. It also contributes to volunteering for sport at local level. In the case of the new VAT compensation scheme, it shall be consulted. Not all non-governmental organisations are involved in Freewill Norway, so we need a broad review of the legislation. As to how the individual organisation comes out, I have registered what the Cancer Association has said. We're going to do this in a relatively short time. But that there's a lot more money in the system now than before, is quite clear, so this is a big boost for volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e423	I understand that the Council of State thinks it is okay that the sports pay 25 pst. more for a snowmobile. I don't think so. There is no doubt that sending something out to the hearing and getting answers from hearing bodies takes time, so I think this will only be started for the autumn. It's too late. Organisations carry out budgetary work. They do not know how to deal with their work under the new VAT compensation scheme. If the Council of State does not see this, I think it is regrettable. Then I think she should take a phone call to non-governmental organisations and ask what challenges they have today. The answer will be that yes, that is bureaucracy, and we do not know what budgets we are going to add for the year to come – that is, for 2010. A frustration – it must be allowed to say – that I have, and that I want to get an answer to, is that it is not the will to help the state with income; it is the state that should facilitate to help the volunteer with income.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e430	We have a very good dialogue with voluntary organisations in developing a good code of VAT compensation. But it is in the nature of the matter that you apply afterwards for compensation for the expenses. This means that voluntary organisations receive compensation far more than they have previously received. I fundamentally disagree with the VAT system that the Party of Presidents wants. If the representative and the undersigned start a sports team, we can get much cheaper dresses with it than if we go to an ordinary sports store. It will, in my view, undermine the entire VAT system and large parts of private business. We have focused on developing a VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations that allows them to recover part of their VAT expenditure, and I fundamentally disagree with the model that the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e437	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e440	First of all, let me say that the system that the Progress Party wants, with full exemption from VAT, is the one that voluntaryism also wants. Last winter and ours, all the opposition parties here together said that we had to get a real VAT exemption for volunteering. The government promised that they would follow suit. There was a great deal of tension when the budget was presented, but what was presented in the budget was only NOK 1 billion in five years, that is. 200 million. kr in this first year. The Council of State now stands and boasts that this is a great boost to volunteering, but what volunteering needs is quite different from the figures that the Government is operating with. Then the Council of State also says that they can come back later and apply to cover the expenses they have incurred. My question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State believe that it is right that the volunteer should advance for the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e451	In a VAT compensation scheme, it is in the nature of the case that part of the VAT expenditure incurred by non-governmental organisations is reimbursed. We have said that we need to increase the VAT compensation scheme to a total of NOK 1.2 billion. We've also said that this is going to increase evenly within the cultural promise period. This meant in the State budget for this year an increase of 200 million. kr. So we've done to the point and the point what we've promised. Then I register that someone wants us to do more than what we have promised, but we have therefore chosen to increase it at the rate that we have constantly laid the foundation for cooperation with Freedom Norway and other non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e458	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e461	In the beginning, I allow myself to bring a little correctness to the Council of State with regard to the vegetables. It's the way that the herbal remedies actually don't bring more money into the system, but the money is distributed in a slightly different way, and we've seen that the money ends up going pretty much to the biggest actors. But that's not what I was going to bring up here now. The question is more about that even though the opposition parties would have wanted a slightly more liberal system, we know that the power is running, and that we have four years ahead of us where we might have to stick to what is the government's line. You put in place a system that I realize you've started. What we see then, and that makes some frustrations, is that some associations later come out worse. That's where the Cancer Society's frustration lies. My question to the Council of State is quite simple: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the entry into this compensation scheme does not come out worse than what you had as a starting point?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e470	I have registered that, among other things: The Cancer Association – but not many others – has said that they can lose on this scheme. I need a little bit of time to calculate more thoroughly given the claims they make. Overall, however, there is far more funding for non-governmental organisations through a VAT compensation scheme than was the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e478	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e481	Two days ago, the Council of State also took part in the Conference of Senior Leaders in Freewill in Norway. The Council of State did not take part in the panel debate later in the day, but it did so, among other things. Head of Parliament of the Central Party. The President of the Central Party then, to the surprise of many, stressed that the VAT compensation in the years to come was something to be fought to be implemented and that it was to be assessed from budget to budget. There was great uncertainty in the hall, and I therefore ask the Council of State: Is the entire government behind the government's policy on compensation for VAT to non-governmental organisations? And can the Council of State guarantee the outcome of the discussions and assessments that the Government and Government parties – with different approaches – will obviously go through at all budgetary conferences over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e488	Like all other government councils, I cannot guarantee any budgetary procedure to be carried out, either by government or by the State. What I can guarantee, on the other hand, is that we have stressed that we are going to have a large increase in the transfers to volunteer, as part of the Cultural Promise II. In the years that have passed, we have been able to meet the expectations that have been, and the promises that we have made in the Cultural Promise I, and it is equally true in the Cultural Promise II. In the first budget, we've increased this by 200 million. kr, and it's clear from the Cultural Promise II that we're going to raise to NOK 1 billion during this big time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e496	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e499	I have a question for the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church – also the Minister of Privacy. The Government has now sent out the Data Storage Directive for consultation. I guess that hearing is real. There may be many arguments in that hearing. My question is: What are the arguments that can be put forward, which may lead to the Government saying – or the Council of State says – that this has clear negative consequences for privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e506	I can confirm that the consultation to be carried out on the Data Storage Directive is real. The form of the letter of hearing is open on a number of points where we ask for advice from the hearing bodies. Of course, the government will focus on the hearings we receive at the hearing to be held. There is no doubt that the introduction of the Data Storage Directive, if we decide to introduce it, is demanding and that there are difficult balances between preventing crime and personal data. I have to say that I have not had a review with myself of what hearings had to come, and what form they should have, which would tell me to say no, and whether the government would think so. In that case, it would have to be that it is not considered that this is an appropriate directive to achieve the objectives set out. It may be possible that it will appear in the hearing, but I think I will await the hearings that are coming, before I might decide what to think and what to land on in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e513	We in the Left are pleased that progress is now being made here and that the directive has been sent to a hearing, which the Government also says is real. My question is: Why have you spent so much time at the hearing – more specifically three years – from the start of the job until you found out that this has to be sent to the hearing? So the real question is, was it like this that the government hoped that you would lose the election and not take this difficult matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e520	I have not been a member of the Government for the entire period you have worked on this matter, but I can assure you that it has been a good job in the last few months. There have been three ministries that have sat together to produce a consultation note that addresses very demanding issues. It has been agreed that if the Data Storage Directive is to be implemented, the issues raised in the consultation note are relevant, and we have come up with solutions to demanding issues that we have presented to the Hearing Officers. So I think it's important now that we look forward. There are many European countries that have spent time implementing the Data Storage Directive. This shows that the matter is demanding, and that is why I look forward to a thorough consultation process. I hope that many people will contribute to that consultation process, so that we can get good insights into both the open questions raised in the hearing and any input that is important for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e527	There will be two follow-up questions – first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e530	The council says you want a real hearing, and I'm glad. But I was present at the press conference and recorded that the Minister of Justice, who spoke on behalf of the three councils, was very clear that this was about criminal acts with a penalty framework of more than three years. And then the next point – and he was very clear that it was the criminal matters involved – is that, in addition, certain other criminal acts with a lower criminal sentence than three years, but which may be difficult to investigate without being able to use data. Then I want to challenge the Council of State: what kind of criminal acts are you thinking about, because with the Data Storage Directive, it's actually opened up to the use of data to combat all kinds of crime. The challenge is to use e.g. Skype avoids the whole problem, as it is not registered under the Data Storage Directive. So the question is, is it that you should now be able to apply this to all kinds of criminal acts – whether there are small fillings, or whether there are big things?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e541	There is an exhaustive list in the consultation note of the circumstances that exist in addition to those with a three-year penalty framework. These include: the criminal law § 91 and 91a, on terrorist activities and matters relating to espionage. There are also a number of other provisions listed related to drug law offences and money laundering and privacy-related issues. That is what is stated in the consultation note. Of course, it is possible for the hearing bodies to make recordings here, whether you have gone too far or whether you have gone too short. This will be one of the things to consider in retrospect — after the consultation has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e546	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e549	I noticed with satisfaction that the Council of State is entering this part of the process of the Data Storage Directive with a relatively open mind. Then I expect that she will also take over part of what is now coming out of the debate. For approx. 15 years ago, significant left clearance was carried out by the Storting in the relationship between privacy, secret services and neighbouring issues. That work was led by Supreme Court Judge Ketil Lund. I think it was more than me who jumped in the chair a few days ago when Ketil Lund said what he thought about the data storage directive's relationship with the privacy in Norway. If not such statements from that team make an impression on the Government, I wonder. That's why I'm asking the state council, with the open mind she's now declared here in the main hall, will take over that message and the evaluation of the Data Storage Directive that the former head of the Lund Commission said in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e558	The government will take over and consider any input that comes to the hearing we've submitted. I can also confirm that the PST position – which was the main argument for Lund in the comment he had after the press conference – is not changed by the Data Storage Directive, except that of course there will be new data being stored, which PST can also access through it. However, the legislation relating to PST is not modified by the Data Storage Directive. I want to confirm that we have a hearing. The letter of consultation sets out various points in which we ask for advice from the hearing bodies. This applies, for example: how long you need to store data. This Directive is open for a period of between 6 and 24 months. That's what we want to hear from the hearing bodies, and then we'll base that decision and the decision we're going to take in the government, on the hearings that come. At that time, we will also make a recommendation on whether or not to implement this in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e566	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e569	My question is also addressed to the Council of State Aasrud, who is now relieved of his temporary employment as Minister of Labour, and ‘only’ is responsible for administration, church and renewal. My impression is that in the Church, innovation goes quite well by itself, but in the public sector, this government cannot produce impressive results after four years. I'm giving the new Council of State every opportunity to say that now we're going to start a new job as real monks. I expect that she has listened well to what the Minister of Finance has been talking about for several months after he joined, namely the need to tighten up budgets now, so that one comes back to the rule of action. Then is one of the sources for saving money in the public sector — often referred to as bureaucracy — but more than just that, including the public service sector. I myself have experience in the last four years in dealing with the National Audit Office's reports to the Stortinget. Only this list I have here over the last four years, contains 50-60 administrative audits that provide many good ideas on how to modernise and streamline the public sector in order, to put it simply, to get more out of the money. So my question is: what strategy and specific areas will the Minister of Renewal now look to help the Minister of Finance, help the Government, release funds for other public tasks and important reforms that might not have to be postponed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e580	I agree with the representative Foss that it is important that we carry out a renewal work. The government has done that in the last four years, and the government will do that in the next four years. This is clearly a demanding situation for Norway; we are going to bring the budgets down to the 4 pst track. Then it is absolutely essential that we be able to carry out renewal work. We may have the biggest renewal projects in our time going on. We have the Nav reform, which is demanding – it shows that transformation into the public sector is demanding. We have the pension reform where we have a lot of work ahead of us, for example. by adapting the disability schemes to the current pension scheme, and we have the Interaction Reform. Today, the Minister of Knowledge has answered questions in the Questionnaire on the Time Usage Committee in the knowledge sector. It is a good example of how to think about innovation also in the knowledge sector. From 2007, when the government provided the management message, we have reported, with a separate report, on more than 700 new renewal measures, so that we have not implemented renewal measures during the previous period, I do not agree. But I also believe that there is much more to go on. That is why we need to carry out an active refurbishment work in the years ahead. I think a lot now will be about using ICT to make things more effective. We see that it is possible to quantify savings by using ICT. From my department, ICT bets – the use of ICT – will be one of the most important things I can contribute to the government. But also in other, more structural areas, of course, I will contribute to debates and be a driver of the government apparatus to see if it is possible to run the public sector in ways that make us get more out of the money we put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e589	I am grateful for the fact that the Council of State points to two important reforms – the pension reform and the Nav reform – which were launched during the 2001–2005 government period. With all due respect for the implementation of the Nav reform, one cannot say that one has just saved money. The reform has also not saved clients too much time, and it has not today been highlighted as a significant success factor for the Government. I will develop another area that may be more topical, namely the transport sector – a sector that has been subject to much criticism, including from the National Audit Office, for lack of efficiency and lack of achievement. The sector itself is asking for greater freedom of organisation and to be able to use private tenders, private services and new forms of financing. This concerns the railway, the railway works, and the NSB. They believe that in this way they can get lower costs and get the projects moving faster. I think there are quite a number of voters who are currently going to be concerned about that. What are the new ideas of the Minister of Renewal on the transport sector, based on the current crises?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e596	I agree with the representative Foss that both the pension reform and the Nav reform were started before the time of the Stoltenberg government. Both reforms show that there is a lot of work to be done. I also think that many of the challenges we see in the transport sector are not just due to the last four years. It does show, however, that little money has been spent on infrastructure and public business for a period of time, and that it may make us in the situation we are in now. In the transport sector – as in all other sectors – there is a lot to go about effectively, but I have little faith that we can finance the public sector in another way. When it comes to moving money out in the private sector, I am concerned that the public should be responsible for implementing projects for which the public should naturally be responsible, and then we should interact with the private sector where it is relevant to do so – it could be within parts of the transport sector, as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e603	Two follow-up questions have been asked – first Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e606	Effectiveness means, as you know, that there is a reasonable relationship between resources used to receive goods and services — in this context, there will be tax money. After all, the Minister of Renewal is our Minister of Efficiency with responsibility for this in the state. I think it was a little bold to mention the Nav reform, which, in my opinion, is rather an example of innovation than efficiency. I noticed that the Council of State indirectly also said that she did not have any concrete initiative proactively – that is, before the Riksrevision came on the agenda – about how we can improve productivity in the public sector. My question to the Council of State is this: Could the Council of State imagine inviting the Stortinget to a discussion on what are decent objective and good objectives of productivity, so that the Storting may also have an idea of how the country's productivity in the various sectors, among other things. in the case of transport, which I have just mentioned, is evolving?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e615	We report through the annual government budgets on how each department spends money, and there is a set of targets there. As Minister of Renewal, of course, I am committed to using the means we have to be able to carry out public sector renewal work. As I said in my reply to the representative Foss, I believe that there is a lot to do in the ICT sector – this is true in the transport sector and in very many other sectors. To be able to use ICT for, for example: better traffic management and better use of traffic can be relevant measures. But also in sectors such as: Tax collection, where we've done a lot, is still more to collect. The fact that we are now setting up an electronic free card system that will save many public annual works will be important renewal and efficiency measures in order to achieve a more efficient state. The fact that we reach, for example, have started using PIN codes that you can get on the phone when you go to MinSide, save money, and are also effective for the individual user. We have to do more of that in the future. I'm also going to contribute to that from my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e622	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e625	Perhaps all, the most important area that is over-modern for renewal, are the municipal and regional levels of government. Now, of course, I know that the Council of State does not have the primary responsibility for it – it is the municipal minister who has – but I expect that as Minister of Renewal, the Council of State has thoughts about this important area where there is clearly a need to set in motion a new municipal structure in line with what was experienced in the 1960s, with the Schei Committee. It was then seen that technological developments and changes in supply, etc. There is a clear need to take an initiative on the part of Stortinget and on the part of the State to bring about a community merger. Unfortunately, this government, as long as the Central Party has been sitting with the Minister of State, has not helped to advance this. This is where the development has been preserved. I want to challenge the Council of State to think about the merger of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e630	I come from a municipality that was merged on proposals from the Schei Committee in 1962, and it is actually that we still notice that aggregation. Therefore, I believe that it is important that municipalities themselves find out whether to join together or not. That's what best results are. That's the way you can get the best effect if you want to use a community merger just to save money. So I have very much faith that it must be the elected representatives in the municipalities who have to find what are appropriate solutions, whether or not to carry out community mergers. On the other hand, I think it is important that municipalities work together to solve problems. The interaction reform will help several municipalities to come together to provide many services, and many municipalities do so already today. But I think we need to cultivate the volunteer to get more municipalities to do tasks together. That's the best way to do it. That is what creates the greatest effect, and that is what creates the greatest legitimacy in the population of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e638	With that, the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e644	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister for Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 9, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 15, from the representative Tord Lien of the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been withdrawn. Question 16, from the representative of Olemic Thommess to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister for Research and Higher Education who is directing him. Question 19, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for Labour, has been withdrawn. Question 20, from the representative of Mr Laila Marie Reiertsen to the Minister for Labour, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e666	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Training Act shall respect and safeguard the rights of students. It is comprehensive and describes important elements to ensure school life for students. Unfortunately, one today feels that Norwegian schools are breaking down with significant and important elements laid down in this law, without any consequences for the teacher, school or school owner in question. Is the Government willing to bring proceedings for the Storting to include sanctions in the Training Act in order to prevent such infringements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e680	Chapter 9a of the Training Act, which regulates the physical and psychosocial school environment of students, contains a criminal provision to punish those who deliberately or negligently violate the requirements. This means that according to the law, for example. is possible to prosecute school staff who do not follow-up bullying, e.g. teachers who do not report to the principal for bullying, to whom they are obliged. In addition, parents who do not contribute to their children’s arrival at school can also be punished. The lack of follow-up to the Training Act, such as: is found to be serious by national supervision. It is unacceptable, and the ministry will carefully consider what to do. The training law shall ensure the fundamental legal certainty of the students in an area of great importance to them. For example, the right to a good physical and psychosocial learning environment is very important. Follow-up to bullying is high on the political agenda and will be followed up by national surveillance in 2010 and 2011. I have taken a number of initiatives to address the issue raised by the representative Hanekamhaug here. For example, I have asked the directorate to find out what are important common features in serious bullying. The investigation shall be based on the fact that the state investigates and uses its local knowledge to go through individual cases. Then we will further consider measures at local and central level. The investigation shall be carried out in the first half of 2010. But I'm particularly concerned about whether the law is good enough to catch up on the serious bullying issues, and whether the legal certainty of the students is well taken care of. For example, we have no cases in Norway where someone who has been subjected to serious bullying has reached the judicial system. I have therefore taken the initiative to review the Training Act at this point in order to look at the possibilities of the law and any restrictions on bullying. It will also be considered whether to set up a separate student representative or whether to extend responsibility for following up this type of case and whether the law is sufficient in terms of the issue of penalties. The Ministry will, in consultation with the Education Directorate, inter alia: consider how observed deviations from the training law are followed up by the state so that we can clarify whether cases of deviation are actually closed as they should. It is also important to ensure a level playing field across the country. Should it show, however, that there are cases where it is not possible for a school owner to comply with a directive by the County Council on the correction of illegal status, the County Council is responsible for reporting this up to the Education Directorate. If these matters are now followed up in a coordinated and effective manner from the supervision side, it is assumed that the obligations you receive will also have to be followed up. Things have to be closed. You have to comply with the constraints you get. But it is also important for me to look at the follow-up capacity of the statesmen. I assume that the municipalities are eager to follow up the law that the Stortinget has passed, if this was to be put on the head, without the need for further sanctions. However, it is necessary to look at whether the law is good enough. I have now asked for various measures and investigations in this area, and when I get them, I will also consider how I can go back to Stortinget. Of course, there may be proposals for legislative changes that result from this, but I think it is of interest for the Storting to be updated on what kind of knowledge we get from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e701	The Minister of Knowledge placed great emphasis on the follow-up to violations of §9a, which is very important. At the same time, we see that most of the violations of the Training Act go on HMS — health, environment and safety — and several schools have not approved indoor climates. Private schools must have national approval in the case of HMS. If they do not have it, they will be refused to use the school building. Public schools, on the other hand, are controlled by local public bodies and often have a two- or four-year period to remedy this. Does the Council of State see such discrimination against private and public schools in relation to HMS requirements as unsatisfactory? Will she consider introducing the same rules in public schools as in private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e708	This is a slightly different kind of problem. The challenge is to be able to follow up on both the psychosocial environment and the learning environment in schools. It's a rather complicated question, which I was in the middle of my answer. Health, environment and safety issues are also complex, but fortunately much easier to measure. I expect the municipalities to follow up the demands they actually get. There is quite a difference between following up a few private schools and following up the many public and county schools we have. But also this is a problem that I am concerned about looking at. So I would like to be allowed to come back to whether we should also make changes to follow up the schools of which municipalities or counties are the owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e713	The Minister of Knowledge shall call for a return to equality between public and private schools with regard to claims. We in the Progress Party want a free school choice so that parents and students themselves may opt out of schools that violate the Training Act. Such a scheme will also make schools autonomous, which will allow for the introduction of economic sanctions in relation to the schools that break the law. Yes, it is correct, as the minister of knowledge points out, there are several public schools. However, when drafting legislation, it will be easier to integrate both private and public school buildings when it comes to students’ demands for a good indoor climate and working environment. My question again: does the Council of State not see it as possible to equate the HMS rules for private and public buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e720	Let me go through and look at the law, possibly where it is different from private and public. What is important is that we have a system that ensures that students have a good working environment. Fortunately, a lot has happened in this area over the last few years. It's about the municipalities having much more focus. They have used this interest compensation scheme to repair school buildings, and the maintenance package also contained much. So the municipalities have done a lot about students' ability to learn. But I would like to come back to how the legislation is structured, to keep focus on this is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e728	I am delighted to ask the following questions to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen: ‘The Education Directorate has made it easier for students to get 0 days’ absence from the diploma, although actual absence may be 14 days per day. years for 3 years. So 42 days can become 0 in the diploma. This leads to wrong reporting, a development of attitudes that absenteeism does not mean much, and is an unfortunate backbone of the debate that is taking place in the workplace. Does the Government help the workers of the future to get in with poor attitudes and low personal responsibility in connection with absence, and thus to increase sick leave?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e737	The intention of the changes to the regulation that the representative Kambe mentions in the training law on the absence of a diploma was not to make it easier for students to have zero days of absence from the diploma, but to have a more similar practice in school. The presentation by the Education Directorate in its letter of November 2009 was intended to clarify what may be required as evidence of absence. But this is not how this regulation has been perceived, and it is quite obvious that some students now believe that they can have some kind of self-telling of 14 days per. years before absence shall start counting. It's no wonder it's caused reactions in the sector. That is why, together with the Education Directorate, I want to review the arrangements we want to have with regard to the conduct of absences on the diploma. Based on research, we know that large absenteeism itself is a risk factor related to non-response and that it is important that the teacher is close. I would like, among other things: assess whether there is a need for a self-registration period – one might imagine – before a medical declaration is required, and what documentation requirements are to be required. This is an area in which it is difficult to identify a system that takes care of and balances the different considerations in a good way, including the need for a consistent practice. However, it is important in terms of both the non-response itself and the attitudes that students have to reject, that you are very clear that you have a regulatory framework that does not encourage an increase in non-response. So that's the background because we've taken this grip. Let me just say two words about primary school as well. We've done a very clear tightening in the case of primary school dropouts. It is about the fact that the absence from the eighth year is now to be brought to the diploma, also there. So there's also a very clear signal in that context. We know that high school drop-outs are a danger signal, and we know that attitudes towards drop-outs are also important in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e749	I think the Council of State is coming up with good answers. That the Education Directorate didn't have the intention that it would lead to an increase in the absence of students, that's enough. On the right-hand side, we now have in some cases the impression that the Education Directorate is almost in free dressage. Another example where the Council of State had to tighten up after another initiative from the Right was in relation to the positive/minus characteristics. The Council of State followed the proposal of the Right, and the same happens now. My first supplementary question to the State Council is: Has the Education Directorate been given a good signal that they can do almost anything? Now they've been on a collision course with Stortinget and with the Government, and the Council of State has, at the Right's request, twice now intervened here. Is the State Council satisfied with the Education Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e756	It is not upon request from the Right that these examples have come up here, it is after reactions from students and teachers and School Norway that the change has had its intended effect. The Education Directorate is going to deal with a lot of questions all the way around, and this change that we're talking about here is a change that's been associated with a regulation. It has been consulted without any particular attention being paid to these issues at all. So it's in the meeting with the school and in the meeting with the students you've seen what kind of effects this can have, and then the Education Directorate and I have to do what we're going to do: when it's clear that the intention has never been to make it easier to have absence, we have to clarify what the cause is. In the past, it was up to the principal how this was handled, and that made it very different. It wasn't a very good solution either, but we're going to figure out how to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e761	The point of the Right has been that all absenteeism should be recorded. It is that some of the absences you have a particularly good reason for, so maybe a better way to do this is to have an additional protocol for absenteeism, for example. is due to international activity, cultural activity, political activity, sport activity, or chronic disease, i.e. obviously not sinister. I think the Council of State is wise to come back with that through the Directorate of Education. So it's also news today that the Council of State is opening up to reintroduce the absence of the youth class, which Right has been programmed. I'm also glad that the Council of State will meet right on it. My question is: when using the arguments made by the Council of State – the attitude aspect is obviously important, and also playing with the homes and parents – why don't you go all the way down to the childhood, as suggested by the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e770	I don't think that would have any very big function. There is a significant difference between students over 18 and students under 18 years of age, and this challenge, how to lead absences, has been particularly stressed to students who are authoritative and who have the right, of course, to deal with issues surrounding absences themselves. In the case of pupils under 18 years of age, parents are required, if appropriate, to write messages and also to ensure that children meet at school. I trust that this will be done in high school without being carried out as an absence. I would like to come back to how we are going to make sure that what has not been an intention at any time in the work on this regulation, namely to make it easier to have absence, is corrected in such a way that it is understood, but also in a way that is perceived as fair around the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e782	‘From 1 January of this year, the county authorities assumed responsibility for large parts of the former national road network. For 2010, Stortinget has granted an extra DKK 1 billion to the county councils as a result of this task transfer. Akershus' share of this increase is 66 million. kr. The majority of Akershus County Council has decided that this increase in transfers should not be used for the new county roads. How does the decision in Akershu County coincide with political leadership from the government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e789	One of the objectives of the governance reform is a renewed and strengthened regional democracy and administration. The reform has given the county councils a number of new tasks. According to the Government’s assessment, this will lead to a strengthened regional government and a more efficient and coordinated administration. The county authorities have been given more tools and space to become a stronger regional development actor by looking at several sectors in a context, getting a coherent priority and such a better planning. This is a role it will be necessary to resolve in cooperation with other local and regional actors. Taking over responsibility for other national roads with their ferry routes is an important factor in regional development and therefore an important step in this reform. The majority has dealt with several legislative and budgetary proposals on the reform and has taken decisions in line with the Government's intentions and proposals. In line with the 2010 municipal bill, the State budget for 2010 has decided to provide the county councils with a total of DKK 7.6 billion through framework grants and VAT compensation in connection with the reform. Of these, approximately 7.1 billion are linked to the responsibility for other national roads and highways. In this amount there is a strengthening of the county councils' free income by DKK 1 billion based on a greater road and ferry liability. In addition, the interest compensation scheme, with a frame of $2 billion a year, also provides an opportunity to increase the growth of activity. The government wants to put the county councils in the best position to handle the increased responsibility for transport from 2010. At the same time, it has been a commitment from both the Government and the Storting that the promises in connection with the reform should, as far as possible, come as free income. This means that according to local needs, the individual municipality is free to assess what they want to prioritize these resources, even if this growth is based on increased responsibility for transport. I base local prioritisation, and I have suggested that the priorities of Akershu County also take into account the increased responsibility they have received as regional road governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e800	I thank you for the answer, which shows that the Minister of State has taken a good stand in the matter. That's something special, what the bourgeois majority in Akershus is doing now. The Council of State, the Government and the Stortinge cannot do anything about the decision taken at Akershus. But a little back in time, when we had the budget debate here in Stortinget, there was, especially from the Right and the Advance Party, a violent run against the Government against not following enough money with the task transfer. So we see that the bourgeois majority in Akershus, with the Right Party and the Advance Party at the head, doesn't want to use the extra appropriations they get for road traffic purposes. The Minister of Local Affairs has a history as Minister of Transport and has thus been central to the transfer of other national roads to the county municipalities. So my question to the municipal minister is: does the municipal minister have any opinion on what will happen to the new county roads, those that were formerly highways, both in Akershus and in other counties, after the county municipalities have assumed responsibility from 1 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e809	Fortunately, I look at the messages that come, that the county takes responsibility that weighs in a good way. Most states have significantly increased activity in the area. The vast majority of states look for opportunities to extend the framework and get the best possible use of resources, both for maintaining existing roads and for investing in new roads. I'm very happy with the signals that are coming, and I'm of course somewhat surprised that one in some states, which was referred to here, chose other priorities. Nevertheless, it is impossible for me, as a municipal minister, to go into the individual state's priorities, and I respect the fact that one has assessed it so that the signals that came in the Stortinge in the budget debate are not in line with the everyday experience in Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e816	I thank you again for the answer and am basically calmed down by the situation in other states, that there are no such unwise priorities as that in Akershus. So Akershu County doesn't want to spend the 66 million. they have received additional appropriations as a result of the transfer of responsibility for large parts of the national road network. Last year the Stortinget granted additional funds to municipalities and county councils as part of the government crisis packages. The share that Akershu County received from the crisis money was also not used as the idea was from accumulation and government, in Akershu County. As far as I know, that money is still out of the question, in the same way as the extra road money does. My last question to the Council of State is actually of a slightly general nature: does the Council of State have any idea of the economic priorities and arrangements that are currently being made in Akershu County?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e825	As I said in my previous answer, it is very difficult for me as the Council of State to go in and make assessments of the priorities of individual municipalities and individual municipalities. But based on the signals I have received as former Minister of Trade, and which I have also, not least, listened to in debates in this Chamber, from the Right and the Progress Party, a little wonder about the situation and priorities that are being made. But beyond that, of course, I don't want to go in and criticise or otherwise have any idea of the priorities that are being made, because they are up to the individual county to do. I am extremely busy as a local and regional minister to respect the local self-government also in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e830	We're going to go to question 9. This question, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e836	This is a question originally asked to the Minister for Transport: ‘In the 2005 election campaign, free travel was an important issue for the Centre Party, but with the Central Party in government 2005-2009, there were no free vacations. In the 2009 election campaign, campaigners were also free of charge for the Center Party. Both the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and the Minister of Transport promised that at least an attempt at free travel would be made, namely on the ferry link from Daløy in Solund in Sogn and Fjordane from 1 January 2010. Now this attempt is canceled. Has the Central Party Council completely abandoned the political work of making national and county roads free of charge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e845	In Soria Moria, the Center Party won with many issues in the negotiations with the Workers' Party and SV, but not this one. Now we go on, and we will start trials with free ferries on two routes. Therefore, it is not correct that the trial at Daløy–Haldorsneset has been cancelled. We still want to put in motion attempts at a free ferry on this ferry connection, but unfortunately it has been a bit late. Among other things, we are now looking at the relationship with State aid law. As the representative may be aware of other issues, it may take some time, and as one may also be aware, the Central Party might have wished that we had avoided the rounds of ESA and EEA legislation in all contexts. But that's the way the big crowd has wanted it, and that's what we have to do. Therefore, I do not dare to give an exact date when the experiment starts, but we suggest that it should start in winter. We shall also start up free-of-charge trial activities in Troms at the Grykø, Sandsøy and Bjarkøy connections. Both trials will be scheduled to start in 2010 and will run for more than three years. Then we will evaluate the impact of the experiment on business and busses, which will provide a better basis for assessing what free ferry means for the development of small communities along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e852	Thanks for the answer. So there's two and not one trial that's exposed. After all, we've got an investigation in the last period, which shows both what it costs and what it means. ‘Roadway and county road ferries are part of the road network and should be free of charge.’ I quote here the program of the Centre Party, and here the Progress Party and the Centre Party are in complete agreement. In Sweden, the ferries that exist are part of the road network and are free of charge. Sweden is a member of the EU. Sweden has not closed, but has maintained the system of free travel after Sweden became an EU member. Why should it be more difficult for Norway than for Sweden to introduce free travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e866	We're in a slightly different situation than Sweden in this particular case, because we already have competitive routes that we're going to try to enter, and that means that you have to enter and compensate for the agreements that are already there, and agreements that don't only go on these connections – then it would be easy – but connections that are part of packages. There's more connections. So our hope is, of course, that we don't have to go to any new announcement because of this, but that one can go in and buy the services of the existing connections with the existing operators, because it represents relatively smaller distances in the big context. But here it's important that we have neat relationships, and we just have to take time for this. So unfortunately, the attempt is a little delayed because of it, but it's not a disaster. In connection with that debt, it's going to be free in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e871	Thank you again for your answer. Is it still the case, at least for the Council of State, that the objective is that the ferries are part of the road network and should be free of charge? Or is this trial exercise with two extremely small connections just a political exercise to have a minimum of back coverage compared to what has now been the election campaign of the Council of State party in two election campaigns? Why not perform a high-traffic ferries test first? It is natural for me, who comes from Hordaland, to point out that one of the really big ones we have on the coastal line, E39, Halhjem–Sandvikvåg. It will be an important contribution to cost-free for all those who use the important link and who otherwise have to pay for additions in a number of contexts of existing toll projects. Why not choose a larger connection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e878	I initiated my main response by saying that the Center Party has had a positive impact on many important issues in Soria Moria I. In Soria Moria II, too, many important matters have been passed on, but free ferries are not one of them. We don't sit – I want to say fortunately – in government with the Progress Party, because I think we would get more things we disagreed about than we were a few about, although we are a few about free ferries. But I can assure the representative of Sortevik that the Central Party will continue to work both in the opinion and in the political environment to win multiple numbers so that the ferries will be part of the national road network. Until then, we have to work with capacity and frequency, so that both business and others who travel along our coast have to have a good supply and an adequate supply, which is there when you need it. We have done a lot in the year that is behind us – we have increased the holiday budget by over NOK 1 billion. We will continue the important work and have a long-term goal of a free ferry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e893	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e899	‘Foreign trailers are involved every single winter in accidents on Norwegian roads both because the trails are not equipped for winter driving and because many drivers have little experience in winter driving. For the Norwegian economy, it is good for foreign operators to deliver goods in Norway without costly reloading, but something has to be done with security. Will the Council of State take initiative with the industry in order to establish an arrangement where foreign drivers need to document knowledge of winter driving, chains and mountain crossings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e906	The Ministry of Transport has asked the Vegvesen to make the best possible use of existing road traffic permits to impose a temporary ban on the use of vehicles which are not sufficiently equipped for the current circumstances. It is not such that a vehicle must be stuck before the police or the Road Service can hold it back. If, following the assessment of the service providers, the running gear is not sufficiently gripped, e.g.: as a result of the failure of the front end or the poor quality of the chain, the vehicle can be held back. In the winter of 2007, the Ministry of Transport asked the State Road Administration to conduct a comprehensive review of existing and possible new measures to improve the emergence and traffic safety of Norwegian winter roads. The background for this was, among other things, numbers from Vegvessenet, which showed that there was a monthly problem on the winter roads, and that foreign vehicles are overrepresented among the vehicles that get into trouble. In the light of a call from Safety Traffic to set requirements for the smooth running training course for foreign drivers of heavy goods vehicles, it was assessed whether a requirement was to be made for foreign drivers to demonstrate competence in winter driving. Such measures may be difficult to implement without compromising our obligations under the EEA Agreement. The rules of the EEA Agreement on driving licences and vocational training require Norway to recognise each driver with driving licences and professional driving licences issued in the EEA territory on a reciprocal basis. Current EEA rules are not initially opened to impose such additional requirements and to discriminate between Norwegian and foreign drivers. The implementation of schemes with additional requirements for foreign drivers would, in all circumstances, also pose major practical challenges. Although foreign drivers often suffer from lack of training and equipment for Norwegian wintering, there is still reason to hope for a certain amount of improvement in the future. A system of pan-European requirements for initial and continuing training for professional drivers has been in place for the last two years in the EU/EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e917	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There are quite a number of scary stories from people running over Norwegian mountain crossings and meeting foreign drivers with poorly equipped vehicles. The Council of State says that there is a possibility of a temporary ban on driving. If the Council of State sees that, perhaps for longer periods, especially in mountain crossings, wintertime, there should be a ban, i.e. refuse, for example: two-axle cars to cross mountain passes. Because it is perhaps one of the biggest problems, at least based on the feedback I get from many professional drivers who see the problems of foreign colleagues when they are going to run over the mountain crossings. I want to challenge the Council of State on what to do with this, because we've seen it in South Africa, we've seen it when foreign trailers come to Norway – wintering with poor equipment. They should never have driven on the road, as it could endanger all the other road users who are on the same road.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e926	I've heard some of these stories myself. This is also the background for the accentuation of driving behaviour. Then I have the hope of this common training that can in the long run contribute to an improvement. But let me also say that good and available information for the drivers is important. The Road Service has therefore updated and improved the information booklet ‘Donna Diesel — Trucker’s Guide’, which provides factual information on running on Norwegian winter roads. The booklet is available in several languages and is available on the Statens vägvesen’s Internet pages. As a part of the update, it is part of it. – as part of the information on driving types with poor winter characteristics – developed a regional overview of road sections as one, under difficult weather and conditions, is not recommended to be used by driving types with poor winter characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e933	I think it's good. Governments provide good information about doing a bit on the information page. But I still want to challenge the Council of State on what was the essence of my question, namely whether she wants to take some initiative towards Norwegian truck organisations that are actively working on this, and not least towards professional drivers' organisations, precisely because it is about foreign colleagues who are not prepared for the challenges you face with Norwegian winter weather over the mountain crossings. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State whether she will not also take an initiative against them, so that something can be done about this. This can happen on a voluntary basis. So I hope that the Council of State will consider whether to close the mountain crossings for longer periods of time for certain types of trucks that are not suitable for driving there, i.e. not only when it snows, but perhaps also for longer periods, so that you are sure that dangerous vehicles do not cross mountain crossings that they should never have driven on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e940	I'm busy having good dialogue in a lot of fields, about what's going on with my territory in the broadest sense. It is quite obvious that it is important to have good dialogue with the truck industry and with those who have experience in the field of this. I think the measures that have been taken so far have just come out of this conversation. I will meet these organisations in a short time, and then I will address this question. It is quite clear that it is important all the time to improve the preparedness and follow-up to the heavy vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e948	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Work conditions have been reported for employees of companies that have provided services to the OPS project E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand, which we cannot be familiar with in Norway. Will the Council of State take action in this specific matter, and can the Council of State provide information on how the State Road Service generally works to prevent such employment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e957	In the contract for E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand, concluded in June 2006, the Road Administration of the State obliges the OPS company to use Norwegian salary and employment conditions for all contractors and suppliers involved in the works. The OPS carrier has documented the follow-up of the total contractor. The documentation shows that the total contractor has apparently had good routines in this area. The Road Service has not found, through its follow-up to the OPS Company, proof that this has not been satisfactorily addressed. The Road Service of the State has a cork in the role of contracting party to OPS contracts or in the role of building contractor in the contract of employment, wage or hourly lists of the individual employee. Right of access is the trust of the main supplier who has, in addition to the Labour Inspectorate. For the specific company, the State Road Administration carried out a check on the company together with the Labour Inspectorate in June 2009 to verify that the operating and sleeping conditions and working hours were kept. There was then a lack of time recording and evidence that the instructions on running and sleeping time were kept. The state road traffic services report this to the police. In connection with the Government's tightening up of the rules on the generalisation of collective bargaining agreements and minimum wage requirements in the last few years, the State Road Administration has repeatedly amended the requirements to be met in contracts where the State Road Administration is a builder. The State Road Administration has the following information in the contract: ‘Add with contractors and any subcontractors and subcontractors directly involved in the performance of the contract, pay and employment relationships shall be no worse than those resulting from the national collective agreement in force or otherwise normal for the place and profession concerned.’; The country’s road safety system’s obligation to supervise pay and employment conditions is governed by the 2008 Regulation on information and passport obligations and transparency. In connection with this employee, the trustee of the main contractor has the right of access to remuneration and employment for all employees on the contract. The road authority performs its duty to verify by requiring the principal contractor to demonstrate that all employees in the site have pay and employment relationships in line with Norwegian regulations. This will be followed up in the construction meeting. Let me add that it is important that all actors do their part of the work to secure Norwegian pay and employment relations. It is also good that deviations become known, so that a continuous focus is on ensuring neat relationships. I can also inform you that the new and revised property, with requirements for prevention measures within the specified area, was now in operation from 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e973	The post from 12 and 13 November actually documents working conditions in a very good way. I've even met the German workers. This is what this is about. Time doesn't allow to get into all the points, but it's a pretty long and scary list of breaches of what we're used to when it comes to good working conditions. I miss the commitment of the public authorities in this matter. If the commitment of the public authorities had been the same as having good work on the site as it was about to be completed quickly, I am sure that the conditions would have been considerably better. I think, unfortunately, that this is just the top of the iceberg. I have for some time met Hungarian workers in the same plant, but unfortunately they did not have the same documentation on the breach. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State follow this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e982	The answer is yes, I will. I'm going to follow closely the situation. I must stress the responsibility of the State Road Administration as a state authority in this case to follow up, but also to limit their transparency. I'm not happy that there's such a relationship, but I'm glad they're being discovered, because we need to keep focusing on there being a clean relationship, and that the evidence should be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e989	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that the Council of State will follow this matter further. I think it's absolutely crucial, not just in this matter, but it's of social importance that we have a good and serious working life. It's one of the carriers in our welfare community. Of course, such relationships are bad for the individual, but I'm probably afraid that if there's too many such cases, it might threaten our entire welfare model. My last question to the Council of State is simply what kind of reflections she has in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e996	I share the views of Freddy de Ruiter when it comes to the need for orderly conditions in the workplace, the need for clear rules and the need for action to ensure that the rules are followed. Let me then say that when it comes to the intensification of the building owners, as I mentioned in my first answer, the builder should make concrete demands for preventive measures within 10 specified areas, including pay and working conditions. There is now a dialogue between the State Road Agency and the Labour Inspectorate on how to interpret these, on how to follow them correctly. The state's road authority will be guided by the recommendations of the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1006	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Nord-Trøndelag, the rapporteurs along the Stjørdal–Steinkjer road and rail routes, in cooperation with the County Municipality, have developed a pilot project for a coordinated development of E6 and railway from Steinkjer to Stjørdal/Trondheim. NTP reports this project. For further progress, it is necessary to draw up a draft selection examination and an external quality assurance. This must be done by the State Road Service and the Railway Agency jointly with the proposers. As far as I have gained experience, both the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency are ready to start such work. However, it is necessary for the Ministry of Transport to give such a mandate. Will the Council of State take the initiative to get this work going?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1015	The Ministry of Transport is now carrying out an overall assessment of which drafts, or KVUs, are to be developed as the basis for the next roll-out of the national transport plan. A concept selection operation shall take place at an early stage of the project. It's the etathans. State Road Service and the Railway Agency, which prepares the drafts. The distributions shall then be quality guaranteed by external consultants through what is called KS1. One of the projects being assessed is the extension of the route between Steinkjer and Stjørdal/Trondheim. It will be worked for the purpose of clarifying which drafts are to be carried out as soon as possible. I have an earlier notice at the end of the year. That means I'm a little behind the grid, but not much. Then there will be a letter of assignment for the Directorate of Roads and the Railway Agency. Even if we haven't finally concluded, the assessment is so far that we should have concept evaluation for the distance drawn in the question. In this case, there will be a common clearing of roads and railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1022	I thank you for the answer, which was perhaps something more positive than I had expected, and it was joyous. I would therefore like to point out that it is important to get this started, because work is being done on the route today, and then you can risk that the work does not fit into the work to be done at a later stage. There is hardly any room for coordination at an early stage in transport projects. The question is, when the Council of State says if not for that long, can she suggest anything about the phase of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1027	Let me tell everyone first that I am familiar with the very good preliminary work that has already been done locally. I am also aware that the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency are ready to take such a mission, if they do. Then to the time aspect. I think I've been pretty clear when I said that I actually wanted to get these KVUs around the turn of the year, but that I'm a little behind the route. This means that if the representative Myraune is able to lubricate himself with a little bit of patience, he will be pleasantly surprised once again, because it will soon be clear which arrangements are to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1034	Lars Myraune – for additional questions. No, he doesn't want to. Then he has a happy message with him from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1041	The question is as follows: ‘The train chaos continues. Almost daily the train passengers experience delays or cancelled departures. This leads to a weakening of the confidence in the railway, and others choose to take the car at work. In the daily newspaper on 8 December 2009, railway director Elisabeth Enger notes that it is even worse before things get better. What advice will the Council of State give to the train passengers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1050	I am the first to regret all the delays and the settings of trains that we have had in December and until now. I'm saying that the scope of train delays and cancellations of trains is far too large in relation to the targets set for railway operations. Especially bad has it been in the strong cold period that we are now experiencing. Clearly, strong cold and railway operations do not always go together as well. The technical components both on the network and on the train equipment are particularly vulnerable to severe cold. This easily stops the train running. The extent of the consequences is greatest in train traffic around Oslo, which has the largest train traffic. In addition, errors on the rail network itself often create the biggest problems, as this means that many trains have to be set up at the same time. This is particularly true in the traffic around Oslo when there is a lack of track capacity to manage such anomalies in a flexible way. In order to reduce vulnerability, substantial efforts are needed to maintain and renew the technical facilities on the network. The government has, as you know, seen this work going on through the so-called Oslo project. The project was launched in 2009 following the initiative of Liv Signe Navarsete. In 2009, 220 million were allowed. kr for upgrading the Oslo Tunnel itself. In 2010, an additional 470 million is allowed. kr for the continuation of this work and for the launch of new renewal projects on the sections towards Oslo S. This is a comprehensive project. It's costing over $2 billion. It is a priority in NTP 2010–2019 and is planned to be completed in 2012. When such extensive track work is to be carried out at the same time as normal train running, problems with train delays and train settings can easily arise to cause great irritation to train users. That is what is behind the appointment of the railway director that ‘it gets worse before it gets better’. In my opinion it will not be practicable to stop all train traffic in order to complete the renewal work. Train traffic had to be unloaded by bus in the event of an unladen load. In the case of rush traffic, there would be a need for up to 300 extra buses, with the traffic congestion that it could lead to. In this situation, it is important that work is well planned and not least that good information is provided. What advice can I give? I cannot give advice other than that one must continue to take the train as normal, but one must also follow closely the information given about any deviations in train traffic. The railway station, in cooperation with the NSB, is now working on a project to improve traffic information to travellers. In the 2010 budget, 80 million have been pledged. kr for the continuation of this project. In the meeting that I had with the Railway Agency and the NSB about the operating situation on the railway last week, I asked the NSB to come up with further suggestions on how passengers can better cope with major operating disruptions in the winter cold, e.g. in cooperation with local authorities. It's now following up on the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1063	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Cold should not be a big surprise in a country like Norway, and the tram and the T-Bahn in Oslo go in spite of the cold. So my next question: the Minister for Transport has promised commuters a better offer by 2012, when the work in the Oslo tunnel is finished. In the VG today, the Director of NSB Persontog announces that the train chaos will continue for 30 years if the rate of approval for the development of the railway is not significantly escalated, in addition to that in the national transport plan. If the Minister of Transport agrees with this assessment, she will step up the rate of rail development in the East in line with, for example, the Left proposed in the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1070	I believe the representative Tenden and I will have a deal on a matter: it takes time to correct many years of neglect. That must be right. There's a lot of bad ham material here, and there's also bad material on the rails. So this government has begun to escalate. We have almost triple investment budget. We're going to increase further towards 2013. So I'm completely in agreement that there will be a need for further escalation after this. For example, we should look at completely new solutions in the Oslo area which will then include alternatives to the Oslo tunnel we know today. Let me go to what Stein Nilsen says, stress that there won't be any related chaos for 30 years. It will gradually improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1077	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that train commuters become quite alarming when they receive such signals. What the Council of State has promised is that things will get better by 2012. But the problem is huge daily for many commuters, and it is said to be worse. Then I have to ask the Council of State again: is it not possible to do something in the meantime, such as set up permanent buses during rush time so that people have an alternative? As it is now, it is hopeless to trust the train, and we see that more and more – I see it daily – now go over to use a car or crowded buses, which also weakens the confidence in public transport. Can't you set up permanent buses on train sections during rush time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1084	I have the greatest awareness both of people standing outside freezing, of people who can't expect the train to go, and of the many people who are on the train today and in the railway station, doing what they can to make things work, because there are also many of them. There's something about buses that can be appreciated. Today, there are almost 40 buses on standby on some routes to solve the worst problems. Why is it getting worse first? This is because work is to be done while the train is running. It wasn't the cold Elisabeth Enger thought of. But I'm going to assure the representative that this is a matter that I have a lot of pressure on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1093	Question 9 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1099	‘The Railways Agency has decided to scrape the Mercury scandal project that has so far cost taxpayers nearly 600 million. kr. The railway system is now proposing to replace the whole of today's signalling system with a new system based on European standard. This is cost-implemented at NOK 15–20 billion. This involves either re-priorities or the need for additional appropriations. How quickly does the Council of State see that the new plant can be built, and will the Council of State re-prioritize or grant additional funds for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1106	Regardless of what happens to the Merkur signalling system, which the railway works were planned to use on the new double track between Sandnes and Stavanger, on the new freight terminal on Ganddal and on the new remote control system between the Mosjö and Bodø, the current signalling system must be replaced by the entire Norwegian network due to its age. The main weight of the signalling and fuselage was built in the 1960s and 1970s and is ripe for replacement. The railway system has developed a strategy to renew the signalling systems based on a common standard as for the rest of Europe. The so-called ERTMS standard is a European standardised solution for signalling and traffic management. By means of the EEA Agreement, Norway has agreed to introduce this standard when older installations need to be replaced or when building new lines requiring signalling and securing systems. The aim of a common standard is to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of rail transport in Europe. The planned expansion is, among other things, mentioned in St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan, and the latest in the Ministry of Transport budget for 2010. It is correct that the deployment of ERTMS throughout the Norwegian network is currently costing between NOK 15 and 20 billion. The first phase was to establish an experience section on Eastfold Railway, east line, which was to be ready for use in 2014. The railway system is now re-assessing this plan to see if it is possible and wise to use the ERTMS system earlier than originally intended. In addition, a draft currency is being prepared to be subject to external quality assurance regarding the choice of ERTMS deployment strategy on the Norwegian network. Before all distributions are done, it is not possible for me to answer as soon as this system can be used. Of course, the budgetary implications of the possible deployment of ERTMS need to be assessed in the context of the annual budgetary proposals and, in addition, taken into account and, where appropriate, prioritised in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan for 2014-2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1115	I record that the Council of State will not answer my specific questions. She explains it because she can't because you have to look at investigations and some other things. I also record that the Council of State is very concerned – and it was to a large extent the previous Minister of Transport – to boast of how much extra money has been allocated and tripled the investment appropriations, but it is very little if you throw away hundreds of millions of dollars in projects that you should never have started, such as: Wood. But I am glad that the Council of State says that you should now work to do something about the signalling system, because this is one of the major problems and is responsible for many of the train delays that train passengers face every day. It is good that the Council of State feels compassion, but I am not sure if compassion helps so much when you stand and cough and freeze in many degrees of cold at a station because the train does not go, and because you do not prioritize building this. I want to challenge the Council of State on how to find 15-20 billion kroner, when we already have 850 million. kr behind what is in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1122	First of all, to lie behind the loops in the national transport plan: national transport plans indicate that there will be an escalation during the period. Let me also say to the content of Hoksrud's question when he says that this project has cost taxpayers nearly 600 million. NOK: If he can have any fun, the amount of the contract between ABB and the Railway Station is EUR 265 million. kr. And then there's another 55 million. kr to a temporary installation, NSI 63, on the double-track Sandnes-Stavanger, so that it could be put into service as planned. I'm not saying this to talk away from 15-20 billion kroner. I think that the number emphasizes that there are major challenges here, and it is also very important to get better signalling systems in place as many places as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1127	I'm glad it turns out that these 600 million. kr may have become a few million, but there are still several hundred million dollars spent on this project – which is not well used. Then I register that the Council of State says you should follow up on NTP, and you should phase in as the economy allows. I have recorded that in various interviews in various media in Rome, the Minister of Finance has stated very clearly that it is necessary to slow down the phase-in into the Norwegian economy and slow down public consumption. My fear is that this will affect railway projects or road projects that are important. We also know that this is the case if you want to have double tracks, for example. on the Hardanger-parcel, another half a billion dollars there, in addition to a total of 850 million in 2010. kr behind what is in the NTP, had the funds been distributed year by year. So I want to challenge the Council of State on how to find 15-20 billion kroner. I assume that the Council of State agrees that this must be put in place quickly, because it is about credibility and the trust of users in the railway network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1134	Let me first say something Hoksrud doesn't like to be remembered, but that's a fact, and that's that it takes time to correct ten years of neglect. That's the way it is. And we're in the process of stepping up. And then it's also so that aftertime is the best form of wisdom, maybe. When it turned out that this ABB contract did not keep track of it, in order to keep me to it, the Railway Works are cancelling it when it concerns the supply of Mercury for use on the double-track Sandnes–Stavanger, because here one has to make so much changes to the system that it is a new system. And then they're looking at how they're going to go through the contracts with ABB to recover the investments that were made. In this case it must be approved by the State Railway Authority. And then we get back to signalling systems on several sections of the annual budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1144	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Sheeted Energy Technology could recently report that the deployment of two-way communications for power reading has been suspended until not earlier than 2016. In 2007, the Ministry of Oil and Energy said that all electricity customers in the country should be equipped with meter for automatic remote sensing of the power consumption with a view to its expansion by 2012. What is the reason why the implementation of this important energy efficiency measure and the improvement of energy efficiency has been so much delayed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1153	Draft regulation on AMS was first sent to the consultation of the NVE in October 2008. In the light of the consultation opinions and information received, as well as the fact that the European Commission is working to establish standards for metering technology, the NVE chose to send a revised proposal at the summer 2009 consultation. The majority of the hearing opinions were in favour of the entry into force of and adaptation to the standardisation work carried out by the EU. In addition, several of them argued that the regulation itself should be postponed until these standards are available. The government is concerned that the choice of two-way communication technologies for power reading is in line with the standard chosen in the rest of Europe, so that we do not risk having to install expensive equipment several times. In view of this, the new regulation decision is deferred until the first part of standardisation work is available, as planned in the spring of 2010. Networks then need about five years for the planning, acquisition and installation of the AMS. In total, the Regulation on AMS will enter into force at the earliest on 1 January 2016, if it is adopted during 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1162	I thank you for your answer. Using technology to make us smarter in terms of energy use is one thing right is very concerned about. I record that different professional environments have a slightly different perception of whether it is good or not that we now get this postponement. I also record that other Nordic countries – Denmark, Sweden and Finland – choose to expand their systems and do not wait for what is happening in the EU. So maybe it's also that we don't get to experience that the European Union comes with one standard. There is a development in the United States, there is a development in the East, large online companies in Europe are cooperating with their suppliers, and that means that we may be waiting in vain for one standard from the EU. Then valuable time is lost. How does the Council of State view the probability that we might wait in vain?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1169	I'm absolutely sure we're not waiting in vain. So I believe that in the question from the representative Meling there are two slightly conflicting points. One is the introduction where the representative points out that the right is concerned about getting the smart technology available and in place, and the other is wanting to go faster than what I am now sketching. The point is that these two things are closely related. There is a formidable development in this area now, and for my part I am not in doubt that, year by year, we are going to gain new experience in terms of applicability, in relation to the extent of what we use the AMS for. And to go a little further and a little further: to give energy companies the opportunity to be inside and control parts of the energy use – for example. when charging an electric car and reaching it on the day it should be done for the purpose of energy availability, and when, for example: Wind power plants in Europe are blowing without a location to make up the flow – will be a sensible policy. So making sure that we take sufficient time in this area, I'm absolutely sure is important, just to reach what was the entrance to the representative Meling's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1176	In these times we see that some customers, consumers, have to pay a very high price for the power. Not least within the Mid-Norway price range. Putting this kind of technology in place would allow the individual consumer, the individual business, to use the energy smarter and bring down the bill. The fact that we now have our own price ranges, the fact that some people are experiencing very high electricity bills as a result of the fact that we have not built up the capacity well enough in our network, suggests that we should be in a hurry – perhaps more haste than the Council of State seems to have – when it comes to putting in place a technology that enables us to use our energy resources in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1181	The debate on the Internet is a big debate, which I would like to take. I'm very busy getting in place more nets, to make sure that we, among other things. reduces price differences in electricity in Norway. As for what was the question here about the AMS, I do not agree that it is being reduced, and that we do not have good progress on it. So, as I said in my first answer, we're talking about having a better knowledge of this in the spring of 2010, but then we need a few years for the online companies to be able to implement it. So we're not talking about dangling, we're not talking about pushing this in front of us. We're talking about doing enough work, so that when such a large and relatively expensive project, which will also affect the power consumers, is in place, it's such a good system that we all agree that it works according to purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1191	‘Statnett recently reported that the blast has resulted in a new record of power consumption in Norway. This happens even after industrial cuts have released at least 5 TWh. The financial crisis has thus saved the government from great turbulence in the power market so far, but more and more fears are now tightening power balance and significantly higher power prices if the cold period persists. What does the Government do to avoid high electricity prices leading to a danger to life and health in the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1198	The new year has started with a blast throughout Europe, and significant parts of Swedish nuclear power production are out of operation. In Norway, many electricity is used for heating, and this increases consumption at low temperatures. Modern societies are increasingly dependent on secure power supply, and this is a very important responsibility for me. Suffering if the power price in some periods has been very high, we have had enough power and good reserves. The NVE has established a dialogue with the power supply district managers. The power industry is aware that the cold creates challenges for many, and several companies report increased staffing to cover important functions and to repair faults as quickly as possible. Several initiatives have been launched for increased preparedness, including testing aggregates, transport systems and mission safety. Establishments that are critically dependent on electricity should consider securing themselves with an alternative energy source. In addition, for example: hospital required to maintain an alternative power source. The situation is a reminder of the importance of continuing to stimulate the creation of new power generation, increasing the direct use of heat and providing an improved transmission system between regions and links with other countries. To date, Norway has been a net importer in total. In recent years, we have increased the expansion of electricity based on renewable energy, both water and wind power. At the same time, we have established major new transmission connections such as Nea–Järpströmmen, Skåreheia–Holen and the NorNed cable. Statnett recently acquired a new cable for Jutland. A new connection is also negotiated between Oslofjorden and Sweden. The envisaged link Ørskog-Sogndal will in the long term remedy the severe situation in Middle Norway. Security of supply is such a theme, while, in concrete terms, security of supply in Hordaland is weak. There, any new transmission link between Sima and Samnanger could significantly improve that situation. As for what individuals can do, I would encourage those who have the opportunity to do so to use alternative sources of heating, such as: wood and pellet kilns. To date, over 10000 households have received support for alternative heating. Many more have made good investments without support. We now have a large-scale bet on district heating, and 19 of the 20 largest cities are connected to district heating systems. Last, but not least, I would like to encourage you to check out Enova's support schemes and the opportunities that lie there to invest in energy efficiency improvement. These are support schemes that we have significantly strengthened, which help to reduce both the energy consumption and the cost to the individual electricity consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1209	In the long term, there's a lot of work that you can do, so there's a lot of flexibility in the energy system. In the short term, there are very few things you can do directly. Those people who can say there is a danger to life and health, because there are high power prices, are the people who fear the power bill and therefore turn off the heat. It's the same people who don't have the money to do expensive action, barely enough of the cheap measures in the short term. Therefore, there is no solution to all possible aid schemes. Let me take the situation in Middle Norway as an example, where the power prices have been up to over 8 per cent. kWh — not only once but several times — while the Government controls new production capacity that is not being put into service. In the short term, for example, two mobile gas power plants in central Norway contribute to reducing electricity prices, thus preventing people from getting the alarm at high power prices and turning the heat off. Then one has to ask: how high does the electricity price have to be in central Norway before the government takes up its short-term measures, so that we can achieve a better balance in the power market?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1216	I am reasonably sure that the representative of Solvik-Olsen is aware of the instructions underlying the reserve power plants in Central Norway. They are there to avoid the real, serious challenge — the lack of energy. We should have that reserve available if this occurs. Otherwise, the situation is not that Mid-Norway is in a special situation with Norway, otherwise, Mid-Norway is initially part of the large Nordic power market, where the price is relatively similar. What has been particularly long this year is that the price in South Norway has been lower than in the Nordic countries – due to the fact that the transmission links have been less than the representative and the undersigned agree that they should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1223	I'm becoming deeply concerned. If you use the price mechanism – which is normally in a balanced market, and the Progress Party supports it – in a market in imbalance, and the Government says that the price mechanism should solve this without a ceiling on how much you allow the electricity price to go, the price will always have a market in balance. If you set the power price to something extreme – e.g. NOK 100. per 1 % kWh – I'm going to guarantee you a balance even if there's no water in a single warehouse up there, because people can't afford to use the power. Then the question is, how much is the government willing to accept that the electricity price is going up, before it starts using power production of which the state is a hundred percent owner? One indicates that the concession does not allow it, but the concession is a hundred percent politically governed. We know that because a mobile gas power plant emits CO2, some of the colleagues of the State Council do not tackle mobile gas power plants. The question, however, is this: should the Government at the Council of State cut through and use these billions of investments at an earlier stage to prevent fear in the population of high electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1233	If one over time had seen electricity prices at the level we've seen in shorter periods, it would have been the result of a power market in imbalance. Then we had a situation in line with the representative of Solvik-Olsen here. But I think that's reason to remind the representative of one thing, and that's that we're not talking about a mid-Norwegian market in this situation, we're talking about a Nordic market, where the reserve power plants in the area also have a limited impact on the price level. It is a market where the electricity price in Central Norway is in practice the same as in Copenhagen and Stockholm – large population-wide areas where we also have large productions to provide energy supply. To present it as that the electricity price in this area will depend on whether or not backup power plants are running, I do not agree with that, because we are talking about a market that is so large.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1243	‘In the Consumer Inspectors Programme of the NRC on 6 January 2010, the Council of State highlighted the maintenance as a good alternative to oil firing. In Enova’s instrumentation, there are measures for several types of heat pumps and pelleting technologies. On the other hand, one does not find any means to stimulate refurbishment from new clean-burning furnaces, which, according to the Council of State, is both simple and climate friendly. Does the positive reference of the Council of State to the fact that it will now be incorporated into Enova’s instrument?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1250	Yes, refurbishment is both easy and climate friendly and at all times a heating mode that I have a great sense of and encourages people to make use of, not least in periods that we now see. Refuelling is a traditional source of heating in Norway and accounts for about 7 TWh, while total bioenergy consumption is approximately double. It's a known and easily accessible technology. The market for wood stoves is a well-functioning market in Norway; it is sold about 70 000 pure-burning wood stoves per year. years. In urban areas, however, there has been a disadvantage in maintaining that it has been a major contributor to local pollution. The responsibility for local air quality lies with the municipalities. Since 1998, there have been market kilns that have allowed us to move on with this – reducing local pollution. To further improve this, we see that some municipalities have established support schemes for the replacement of old wood stoves to reduce pollution. The figures compiled by the Statistical Central Bureau show that 43 pst. the wood used in 2008 was burned in these modern clean-burning furnaces. So it's been a big conversion. That's an increase of 36 pst. since 2005. Reheating is, through the new clean-burning furnaces, also an important source of heating for many. Then, as the representative correctly points out, we have established grant schemes to stimulate the increased use of renewable heat. They are intended to contribute to the availability of mature technologies, which are currently not widely available on the market. The support programme is aimed at the establishment of district heating and local heating centres, against pellet boilers and against heat pumps. The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are both responsible for bioenergy policy. The latter also provides support for the establishment of heating facilities on agricultural properties through the Innovation Norway Bioenergy Programme. This may include, inter alia: is about quads that use fuel. I believe that it is not necessary to establish public support programmes in order to further stimulate the use of ordinary clean-burning wood stoves. Wood and wood stoves are both technologically and marketly mature. In many cases it is profitable to switch to more clean-burning furnaces and by being an easily accessible source of energy. State aid, I believe, should be used somewhat more targeted towards technologies that are not so widespread in the market and are also more expensive for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1261	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In light of the cold period we have had, particularly large cities have been very exposed to pollution. According to TV, the mountains have been the most polluted city in Europe. It's a serious matter. According to a previous report from the SSB, refuelling together with car traffic is the main reason for suspended particulate matter. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is it appropriate on this basis, related to pollution, to provide for more maintenance? Would it be appropriate to provide guidelines on where to use refuelling in the country, or is it okay that now, with these new refuelling furnaces, it is also used in large cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1270	I think it is very wise, what has been done in some large cities, that targeted measures have been taken to reduce local pollution, among others. by facilitating a conversion of the use of the type of wood stove. We see that it works, we see that the wood-burning stoves have got a large part of the market and that the conversion takes place quickly. Here I think the policy works, local authorities take responsibility. I believe that the Progress Party should also look at the point that efforts are also being made by the State to target, and limit itself to the point of entering and subsidising.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1275	Electricity capacity in Norway is usually very good. In the Nordic market, there is usually surplus power. Heat pump air to air provides good energy utilisation and does not contaminate. There should be a good alternative to heating dwellings and apartments, not least in large cities. Will the Council consider changing the grant rule so that individuals can receive a cash subsidy for the installation of air-to-air heat pump in order to reduce pollution from private housing units?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1282	I again note that the desire of the Progress Party to use state resources in different sectors of the energy field today is great. Enova has carried out assessments and is carrying out a continuous evaluation of where it is most targeted to use state resources to achieve the necessary conversion. Then we've seen that in some areas the conversion goes by itself. Furnaces are a relatively modest investment for many. Air-to-air heat pumps are also a relatively modest investment compared to many domestic energy measures. We see that both in the case of stoves and air-to-air heat pumps, the conversion takes place quickly, there are many new stoves installed, and there are many new air-to-air heat pumps installed. I hope for some understanding that when Enova has a frame for a certain amount of money, it makes sense to spend the money targeted in those areas where you can see that government participation contributes to a conversion that would otherwise not have happened. When it comes to pumps, we see that the conversion takes place quite quickly. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1292	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Does the Council of State at the Office of the Prime Minister indicate that it is in line with the guidelines for management and party policy activities, dated 23 August 1995, when the Deputy Government Council against depositors is actively engaged in the influence of a disputed transparency case which is being dealt with in the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1299	This question falls within the constitutional responsibility of the Prime Minister. The question is answered by me on behalf of the Prime Minister in his absence. The case, which concerns the scope of the Civil Ombudsman's right of access, was not currently dealt with in the Stortinget, but in the administration. The case was subsequently submitted to Stortinget in the form of a separate notification from the Civil Ombudsman. At the Budget Conference on Thorbjørnrud, where the Government and the parliamentary leaders of the Government parties were gathered, an official at the Prime Minister's office was asked to inform the Central Party's parliamentary leader of the facts on the matter. The aim was to provide information. The 1995 letter to which the representative Foss refers aims to ensure a clear borderline between management and party policy activities. However, the event in question is not about the involvement of the civil service in party policy activities. The aim was to communicate the facts. Therefore, providing such information does not conflict with the guidelines set out in the letter. I see afterwards that one could avoid confusion about roles by the presence of a politician from the government apparatus when the information was given to a magnification representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1312	It is only partly correct that the matter was not dealt with in Stortinget, for the minister will be aware that the question of transparency for the Civil Ombudsman and the National Audit Office has long been a matter of conflict between this sitting government and the Stortinget. It was also when this matter was brought up with the then parliamentary leader of the Central Party, the Rune Kärlaa. He did not see it as bringing facts forward, as he spoke to the VG as late as December 23rd last year that he perceived this as having been tried. So to present this as facts is at least a presentation that is not consistent with the party politician's own opinion. Then I appreciate the element of self-criticism that was at the end of the article, namely that this should have been done by someone other than an assistant ministerial council – because it was perceived as party politics, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1319	It is important for me to clarify that the matter in question was not dealt with in Stortinget. It came later and, as far as I am aware, will be debated in the main hall tomorrow. I would also like to maintain that the aim here was to provide the parliamentary head of one of the government parties with information on the facts of the matter, and that was the starting point for the enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1324	With respect to reporting, a matter where there is a conflict between the government parties and the government, is at least party political. It's partisan combustible. Perhaps it would have been less party-political if there had been a case where there was disagreement between government and opposition. But here we are facing a case where a total mass, including the government parties, gives the government clear information about where to stand, and it's going to be somewhere other than where the government has placed it so far. So that the matter was combustible, and also party political, there is no doubt about it. Finally, I would like to quote from the circular sent out by the Prime Minister's office in 1995: ‘Ministries are asked to specifically assess whether the internal knowledge of these issues is adequate and whether additional internal training measures are needed in order to have a high level of awareness of these issues.’ It seems that the knowledge of these issues is particularly poor at SMK, not in the individual department. It underlines further the need for a certain degree of self-criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1336	I maintain that it is difficult to see that the issue of transparency in a document can be defined as party policy. That is why I also maintain that the letter with guidelines mentioned relates to something quite different than what we are talking about in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1351	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1357	This question, from the representative of the Olemic Thommess to the Minister of Culture, will be preserved by the Minister of Research and Higher Education who directs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1360	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘Norway has a special responsibility to contribute to the making available and documentation of Ibsen’s life and authorship. At the time of the 100th anniversary marking, closer coordination between the main actors in the Ibsen work in Norway was sought, possibly with a view to setting up a national Ibsen centre. This debate has now been raised in connection with UiO's plans to move the Centres for Ibsen studies. How will the Council of State strengthen the Ibsen work in the future, research and for the general public?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1369	The Law on Universities and Higher Education of 1 April 2005 — the Law on Universities and Higher Education — empowers universities and colleges to determine the content of their teaching and the content of their research as well as to determine their internal organisation at different levels. I trust that the University of Oslo will discharge its important responsibility for the Ibsen research and its dissemination in the future. On this question, I have been confirmed by the University of Oslo that when the Ibsen Centre is in place by the end of January at Henrik Wergeland's house, research, education and dissemination around Ibsen will continue as before in the new premises, with the same budget and the same crew. At this move, the Ibsen Centre will come closer to the other relevant professional environments, and I would like to remind you that the university has the largest humanistic environment in Norway. The University also informs that a good cooperation agreement has been reached between the University and the National Library on the Ibsen literature. It shall include, inter alia: that part of the book collection will be deposited at Blindern, Henrik Wergeland's house, where the centre will be, and Ibsen researchers and theatre workers will thus also have access to this on Blindern in the future. There is therefore reason to believe that the move of the Ibsen centre in the longer term will strengthen Ibsen research and public communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1376	This was an answer that I feared, namely that the university under its self-determination, which is of course there, can do a shift of this from a purely – what to say – scientific assessment. The problem is that what's happening is you move this center away from what's the center's main foundation, the relevant collections. It is clear that moving a part of the book collection is not very close enough or interesting. It's the handwriting collection, the letters and the audiovisual collection that makes people come to Norway to study these things, and that makes this unique. When I originally raised this question for the Minister of Culture, it's because I think it's up to the Ministry of Culture to think about how we're dealing with this completely. The National Library, the scientific Ibsen edition, which is otherwise neglected at the university, the Museums of Grimstad, Oslo and Porsgrund are here key actors, and that is the context that needs to be seen for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1385	I'm going to think it's in the Ski that the museum is in, because it's Ibsen's birthplace – I'm thinking about Ibsen's Friendship. But enough about it. In fact, I believe that the University of Oslo is able to have good contact with both the National Library and thus the environment that currently has the Ibsen Centre house, and it has built up over these years. We're not going to look at a move from Dramensvejen to Blindern as a disaster for a trade union environment. I believe that the Blinder environment – with its many responsibilities, vis-à-vis other great authors and literature as well as history in general – will see this important responsibility. I have, as I said, been assured that the University aims to continue the Ibsen Centre in a new context, but in an even more exciting context for Ibsen research and the Ibsen Service than it has now been. I have great faith that this will be successful, and I will, of course, – along with the Minister of Culture – make sure that we strongly feel responsible for both Ibsen research and Ibsen dissemination.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1396	I find it difficult to see what would be the real content of that solution, that it should be better than the solution that we have now – which works to the extent of what all the professional communities involved consider to be the very central one, namely the link to the National Library and the physical proximity, which is what today's solution provides. The idea expressed by the Council of State does not include what is involved in taking total national responsibility for how to manage Ibsen's life and authorship. We need to look at a solution that also includes the general public and the visiting audience, and where Arbin's Gate – Ibsen's apartment and the museum – is absolutely unique. Here a closer link could be used to find solutions that would be unique in an international sense. It is a pity that the Government does not see the potential of a stronger link between the relevant settings in Norway working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1403	I think it's quite remarkable that the representative Thommess has such little faith in the University of Oslo as an important manager of our cultural history. It's the ones that manage this today. The cooperation between the University of Oslo and their many professional works – the University Library of Blinders and the National Library of Dramansvejen – is very much alive. Of course, at the University of Oslo you feel that there is also an important responsibility for the research and communication relating to our great national poems, which Henrik Ibsen is. I don't think there's any reason to underestimate the university's important role in society in this – and the responsibility they assume. As I said, both the Minister of Culture and I want to keep up with this work, and I have assured myself – with regard to the issue today – that the University is conscious of its responsibility. I have great confidence that they will handle this perfectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1413	‘Refers to the opinions of the Nations and the Bondebladet on 26 November 2009. The CEO of Nortura, Geir Olav Opheim, states that Nortura will no longer finance social tasks such as maintaining jobs in the district above Nortura's bottom line. Would the Council of State propose, as an alternative, to take care of rural agriculture by offering the service to bids that Opheim suggests by referring to the Unøe scheme?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1420	The concrete answer to the question put by the representative, Mr Tåldal, is in black in the government's political platform: ‘The role of co-operation as market regulator and importer of Norwegian raw materials from all over the country shall be ensured.’ I also refer to the unanimous vote on this Chamber from the Economic and Social Committee when the beef and veal market organisation was reformed in spring. The aim of cooperation is to maximise the benefits of membership for all members, including: by providing market access and maximising the payment of prices. Furthermore, cooperation is based on open and voluntary membership. Much of this is the basis for the role of Nortura as market regulator in key commodity markets in the implementation of agricultural policy. Of course, it involves rights and obligations. Nortura is paid for the job as a market regulator from the sales tax, which is paid by the farmers, also by those who deliver their animals to Nortura’s competitors. It is true that the reception obligation is one of the obligations relating to the role of market regulator, but it simply confirms a cooperative principle. Nevertheless, it is easy to understand that increasing competition in livestock-tight areas and strong food chains that integrate back into the value chain pose new challenges for interoperability. Over time, the reception stage in the meat market, both in the cooperative and in the independent, is rationalised in order to reduce costs. This increases the distance disadvantages of some meat producers. For this reason, a working group on the industry is now in place to review the import arrangements, with a view to making it more interesting for all slaughterhouses to pick up animals far from slaughter facilities. An important aim here is to strengthen competition for the supply of rural farmers. I will, as I said, continue the market organizations, and I know that it is Nortura's position, last confirmed by Governor Svebestad of the Nations. But market organizations must play with other instruments of the agricultural agreement in order to maintain agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1444	I thank you for your answer. Nortura justifies her desire for more money in order to solve regional policy tasks, including: input subsidies — without any reduction in the last few years. During this period, the company has closed down several slaughterhouses and total slaughter in fewer facilities. An increase in the contribution will reduce the competitiveness of small local district slaughterhouses in terms of access to animals. How does the Minister of Agriculture place emphasis on the importance of future existence for the small local slaughterhouses when designing the subsidy scheme that affects them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1451	As I said, it is the turnover tax that finances the market regulatory role. When we talk about the transit arrangements and a review of them to ensure that we ensure that regional farmers are able to deliver their products to the slaughterhouses, the purpose of such a review is to ensure that all slaughterhouses have equal opportunity, regardless of whether they are part of the cooperative or not, that everyone has equal opportunity to pick up raw materials from the district farmers. This will in itself imply enhanced competition for the supply of regional farmers. It is at the bottom of this scheme and will be an investigator now. The conclusion of the investigation has not been drawn, but one is in the process of doing that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1458	Does the Minister of Agriculture believe that it is essential that there is a cooperative enterprise that draws live animals for slaughter in the most pig-grown areas, or that there is a fundamental difference if there is a private slaughterhouse carrying out this task, as long as the rural policy tasks are carried out, and that good agriculture is ensured throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1463	As I tried to underline in my previous reply, the purpose of the review of the depositing arrangement is first and foremost to ensure that the district farmers, those with the distance drawback, are given the opportunity to deliver their products to the slaughterhouses, regardless of the distance from the slaughterhouse. This mechanism will aim to be competitively neutral. It shall ensure that both private slaughterhouses and cooperative slaughterhouses have as much equal working conditions as possible. Here is a system that is now being worked on to get in place, which ensures competition for the delivery of regional farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1471	Let me first of all congratulate the Council of State on its new work. And then I want to ask the question: «I, the undersigned, refer to Section 8 of the Regulations of Sections 10 to 7, concerning aid schemes for the purchase of wigs/hair replacement. It appears that support for hair replacement due to diseases such as: Alopecia stops after the patient reaches the age of 18, and the maximum benefit is NOK 13 000. What is the assessment by the Council of State of current practices related to this, and what will it do, if appropriate, to improve current practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1480	Let me first explain the legislation and current practice. A member who has lost, in whole or in part, his hair due to sickness or disease treatment is granted a grant for the acquisition and repurchase of wigs. At the time of the first acquisition, it must be confirmed by a medical declaration that disease or treatment for disease is the cause of hair loss. It is not right that support for hair replacement, as mentioned in the question, stops after the patient reaches the age of 18. Under the legislation, one or more wigs are paid up to NOK 5035 per month. calendar year. If it is medically documented that the member must use individually prepared wig due to abnormal headform or allergic reaction to synthetic material, a social benefit of up to DKK 13 000 per person may be provided. calendar year. In other words, for persons over 18 years of age who, during the calendar year, have expenditure in excess of these rates, there is a certain excess. For children and young people under 18 years of age, the legislation is practised in such a way as to provide full support for the necessary expenditure for up to two individual prepared wigs or up to six synthetic wigs per year. calendar year. The legislation has not changed in recent years. I have also been briefed by the Employment and Welfare Directorate that they have not received feedback from their own department or users about the need for changes to this legislation. Against this background, I do not see the need at this stage to make changes to existing legislation or practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1495	It is true, as the Council of State points out – the question may have been a little unexplained – that there is a regulatory framework for those over the age of 18 who, as the Council of State says, cover up to NOK 5035. If you go back two or three years in time, until 1 January 2006, the amount was NOK 4 730. So you've had an increase of $305 since 2006. According to Jalvad, Norway’s oldest wig salon, located in Oslo, six synthetic wigs per person are needed. years. It represents a cost of NOK 3500 per person. wig, and you need three wigs with natural hair, which represents a cost of $5,500 per. wig. If you want synthetic wigs with a thin bottom, individually arranged, it's $16,000. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for an individual to be given an increase in this area according to the index of consumer prices, i.e. that the expenditure covered by the public interest follows the index of consumer prices in the social security system?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1500	It follows, therefore, from the legislation that, if necessary, this aid can also be increased to NOK 13 000 for those over the age of 18. There are many benefits to distinguish between children and adults — that children have a higher proportion of them covered than adults do. What I also emphasize is that after examining this with the relevant department, I have not seen that it has been stated that this is too low.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1505	I refer you to the Landsföreningen Alopecia. They have repeatedly expressed a strong need to do something about the legislation and the rates. The FFO has also been on the field and said so. This is especially a problem for girls who have a disease that it is not possible to do medical treatment of, and it is naturally far worse for a lady than what it is for us men to lose their hair. In this regard, I would like to make a contribution to the Council of States: Can it make sense to clear up the legislation and put in place a system that follows the development of the G amount, to put an amount of 1/10> G on wigs and for individually arranged wigs to be 1⁄4 G per. calendar year? This will also provide a much better service to women's needs, and it will not lead to the large costs, as they are not very many.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1512	I just have to say that I see that there is a great difference between men and women, and in particular there are women who put great emphasis on the hair – I see the point being mentioned here. I also see the point that there may be a need to look at whether a regulation should be made in relation to the consumer price index, without going into the second proposal that was presented. In that case, I will come back to this in the context of the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1527	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1534	This question, from the representative of Laila Marie Reiertsen to the Minister for Labour, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1537	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion: «In the Official Journal of Bergen on 11 December 2009, we can read about the partner couple in Kinsarvik who are looking forward to parenting. Anyway, it's a cleavage of joy. They are not allowed to take out maternity leave at the same time without losing the birth allowance. The mother has cerebral paresis and therefore needs extra help in the time after birth, something father wants to do, but Nav says no because the legislation for birth money is quite clear. Will the Council of State look at legislation to make it more flexible towards such groups as regards maternity leave and maternity allowance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1546	I have a great deal of understanding that there are cases where one parent needs help from the other to take care of the child. There is also an opening in the regulatory framework. If, for example: mother due to illness or injury depends on assistance to care for the child, father may take over leave, even during the first six weeks after birth. In most cases, it will be that mother is entitled to sickness benefits. Whether the derogation in the legislation can be applied to the specific matter on which the representative asks is not possible for me to decide. It is Nav who has to clarify individual matters, but at least there is an opportunity in the legislation as it stands today. The intention of the parental pension scheme is to ensure that the child can have one of his or her parents at home in the first year of life. The scheme is based on the principle that popularism does not compensate for both parents caring for the child – in other words, does not cover double care. The parents may then divide the period of benefit between themselves, but the general rule, as is known, is that the parents cannot be at home with parental leave at the same time. It would shorten the benefit period and in many ways conflict with the intention behind the scheme. So the government has announced that we want to investigate a simplified and more equal parental death scheme. The Ministry has started that work. As part of that work, I think it is natural to consider whether parents with special needs are well enough cared for in the system we have today. That work is in an early stage so that I can say something more concrete today about how it might be done, and how much I think that need is. But it's a process that's in progress, and that I'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1555	Thank you very much for your answer. It sounds very uplifting that the department will look at the legislation. But I'm afraid that this code doesn't work when it applies to this group, because there aren't so many in it. So there must be a possibility that possibly Nav can contact the ministry to look at this. How does the Council of State feel about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1562	Of course, in cases where the case handlers of the Nav or Nav system are in doubt about how the legislation should be understood, it is natural to contact them to interpret this. It is again difficult for me to become very specific, because I do not know the individual matter except through the review in the Official Journal of Bergen. However, it is necessary to assess whether existing legislation can be applied in any way to help this parental killer. If not, it's a natural thing for me to take into account the discussion we're about to have on the development of the code further, because it's clear that groups that are small and that come into special situations can easily fall outside the legislation that's made for the large groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1569	I thank you again for your answer. As the Council of State understands, I am busy with this matter, and it actually concerns more, but not so many. Another thing is that Nav has said positive to a health call from his father, and in today's health call debate, it's not exactly a positive signal. It would be better if the contact from Nav to the department came as soon as possible. I hope that the Council of State can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1578	The aim, of course, is that everyone should be able to participate in the rights they have under existing parental pension schemes and that it should be in the way that they are organised. So there are exceptions, as I have mentioned, which make it possible to transfer leave even in the periods reserved for one parent, as the weeks around the birth are reserved for mother. In the specific case, it will be necessary to assess whether the legislation can be applied. And if not, it's, as I said, an example that might be useful for us to include in the assessment we're going to make of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1586	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: «U-864 loaded with approx. 67 tonnes of mercury, near the Fedje in Hordaland, has today contaminated an area of approx. 30 000 m2. There is a cross-political agreement that the submarine must be lifted. Just before Christmas, it became known that the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has done such a bad job with the contract that a quality assurance report advises against continuing the project with the existing contract. How soon can the Stortinge expect a case to be brought before it, where it is explained to the Ministry’s view and further handling of the matter?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1598	In St. prp. No 67 for 2008-2009 on additional appropriations, etc. in the 2009 State Budget, Stortinget was informed that the Government believes that the wrecked by U-864 should be lifted. Furthermore, it was argued that contaminated seabeds should be covered to clean masses. It was stated that it was intended that an external quality assurance should be carried out, also called KS2. The review of the revised national budget for 2009 granted 8.2 million. NOK for further work on the U-864. The project quality assurance mission was given to the Dovre Group and the Transport Economics Institute. I Prop. 1 S for 2009-2010, Stortinget was informed that the quality assurance would form the basis for submitting the case to the Stortinget for final approval, and that the Government would return to the case in an appropriate manner. I was given the quality assurance report on 16 December last year. The report is critical to several aspects of the existing U-864 lifting project. The report concludes that the project is insufficiently prepared on the basis of the existing plans and that there is a very high risk associated with the scope of work, organisation and management. It is concluded that there is doubt that the project can be managed in a sufficiently controlled manner, which is unfortunate also in relation to safety, the environment and economic control. The point of external quality assurance is to obtain the best possible basis for making a decision. The quality assurance report is now being reviewed in the department. Once that review has been completed, the Government will return to Stortinget with a proposition about the further process in the case. The matter is expected to be advanced in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1609	I thank you for your answer. I agree with parts of the answer, but I miss a confession from the Council of State that the criticism is also directed at the Coastal Administration's handling of the matter. For example, I can. mention that in the report by Dovre Group and TØI, one says: «The contract appears on several points as unclear and the risk distribution between the parties is considered to be unusually distorted by the contracting entity.» This, of course, creates uncertainty about the Coastal Works that the contracting party has done a good enough job, and it also exposes an uncertainty about the project costs, which is thus between 1.2 billion kroner and 2.2 billion kroner. There is a possible uncertainty of 100 p.m., and then there is doubt as to whether the project can be properly managed! Is the Council satisfied with the Coastal Administration's handling of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1623	I read the report carefully at Christmas, and it is critical of many points, including the points pointed out by the representative here. The Coast Guard has carried out the mission they received from the Department. In their November 2008 report, they reviewed the options. They were also in a cover option. It was said that cancellation was possible in that report. The coastal work was taken up in this work and in its broad work on other assessments from a number of Norwegian and international trade unions. On the basis of that, my opinion is that the Coastal Works have done what they have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1630	I'd like to ask you an additional question. It is good that the matter comes to Stortinget. I perceive the last answer from the Council of State that is so unsatisfactory, about the report that we have both read, that I believe I can already inform you that there is going to be a wide consultation on this, so that we can get all the aspects of the Coastal Works' handling of this matter. For the purpose of making the State a party to the contract, a long time should be considered if the assessments made by Dovre Group and TØI are correct. It in turn contributes to the uncertainty about the entire uplifting operation, for which very many people are concerned. The first reactions in the media were also whether or not there would be an upliftment, whether or not the entire cancellation decision would be cancelled. My last question is: Does the Council of State believe that the decision to lift is pending, regardless of this report by Dovre Group and TØI?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1641	To that I have to say that the government in January 2009 went in to cancel the submarine. At the same time, it was decided that an external quality assurance should be carried out. That report has now been received by me and the department. It's being reviewed. Once that review has been completed, we will review all the points in the report, and then the Government will return to Stortinget with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1649	‘There is today a major shortage of foster homes in child protection. As of 31 January last year, 115 children and young people were admitted to foster homes waiting for a foster home and a further 619 children and young people were notified to foster home services as being relevant for foster homes. Furthermore, child protection depends on having more accessible foster homes than children who need foster homes — in order to choose a foster home that is appropriate to the needs of the child in question. What will the Council of State do to ensure adequate foster homes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1656	The last few years have been over 80 pst. by all children who are placed outside the home of the protection of the child have been placed in foster homes. Foster homes constitute a fundamental, central and very important place in child protection. It is unfortunate that children have to wait to be placed in foster homes. As of 31 January 2009, 115 children were waiting to be placed. Of these, 85 lived. in a child protection measure, such as a shelter or institution, while waiting for their place in a foster home. More children than in previous years live in emergency or short-term measures. 13 pst. of those who waited, lived either with one or both parents, close relatives or with persons in close proximity. Recruiting foster homes has always been a demanding job, but measurements in recent years show that it is now extra challenging. This is because more children are now placed in foster homes than before. There are several children in child protection, as well as a greater proportion of those away from home being placed in foster homes. Foster home care in Norway has traditionally been based on idealism and a desire to help children who have a difficult situation. Being a foster parent is meaningful and important, but it is also demanding. Therefore, it is equally demanding to recruit foster homes. There's a decision that many people spend a long time on. We are therefore in the process of implementing various measures to strengthen the recruitment process. We see that it is particularly difficult to recruit in the big cities. Therefore, it is decided that the central authorities should focus specifically on it in 2010. The aim is to reach new groups of potential foster parents. In addition, every two years a national recruitment campaign is organised. The next national campaign is planned in February 2011. Then we have a continuous regional job for recruitment. I expect that my speaking time is about to run out – even if it’s not here – but I can possibly come back to the other important part of this, namely how we’re better prepared to make it a task where a person gets guidance, networks and help that makes it tempting for those who want to take on such an important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1671	The President may reassure the Council of State that the speaking time in the first Council reply should not exceed 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1674	Despite the fact that there was a restriction in the speaking time of the Council of State in all 3 minutes, I find it very worrying and disappointing that the Council of State does not have any more concrete instruments to meet such a serious challenge. Here we are talking about children where the authorities actually go in and do such a powerful act as taking the children out of their home – for good reason, of course – but then it is all the more serious and unacceptable that we cannot deal with the necessary help measures and that we lack foster homes. What will the Council of State do as regards compensation and other conditions for foster homes today? And: Does the Council of State have a deadline for when, according to the need, you will have full foster home coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1681	I would like to engage in dialogue with the representative of Hope about this, because there is no simple political solution. That's not all we want to adopt, that we can adopt in this room. One of those things is to make sure that there are plenty of foster homes for the kids who need it. When there are several children in child protection, it goes without saying that we need more foster homes, and it's a demanding task to do. It's not on the will, but it's on whether we can recruit enough. In addition to what I talked about instead, we have had a significant improvement in what kind of framework we put around foster parents. It is about the possibility of participating in guidance groups, on further training courses, on more technical assistance from Buffetat and on what is now going on across the country, namely the establishment of a watch telephone system for all foster parents, so as to facilitate the provision of direct guidance in everyday life. All such interventions — in addition to the work we are doing on improving conditions, economic and social — help to make it easier for more people to take on this incredibly important task. So there's a lot of work going on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1690	It's very hard to see what the so-called big work is. It is true that we cannot politically decide that we have enough foster homes available, but one can have a clear strategy, and one can improve the conditions, so that it becomes sufficiently attractive for a sufficient number of families to report as foster parents. Since we lack as many foster homes as we do today, it is a clear signal that the conditions are too bad. The Foster Home Association is also clearly telling us about this. It's actually possible to do something with it until you get to the goal. It's such a challenging challenge to be a foster parent that no one will do it for purely economic reasons, anyway. The questions remain: does the Council have a clear strategy to provide adequate foster homes? And: has the Council of State set a deadline for when he's going to be in the goal of having enough foster homes for all the kids who really need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1697	The answer to that is yes, we have a clear strategy for that. That strategy is about what I said in my first answer, which is about active work to recruit more people. Then it's about what I talked about in my other answer, namely building a better framework for foster homes, ensuring that guidance, professional competence and the ability to build networks around the work we do are present. The third crucial aspect is the preparation of standard government emergency and family home contracts, where, after the start of the new contracts, parents will have much better social rights, such as: sickness benefit from day one, pension and increased protection against dismissal. And then there's a dialogue with KS about how we can also improve the conditions of the municipal foster homes. There's a lot going on here. We have a clear strategy. We have a goal of doing this as soon as possible, because the need is there. But, as I said, as the need increases, the challenge we face is also increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1704	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-13.ana.ud1798e1717	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
