ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e50	Honourable co-representatives! The former deposit representatives Erland Steenberg and Ottar Landfall have died. Former Depositary Representative and Parliamentary Head of the Central Party of Erland Steenberg, born 11 February 1919 in Lower Eiker, died 11 December 2009. Steenberg was the representative of the Buskerud Centerparti on the Stortinget from 1965 to 1977, the vice-president of the Odelstinget from 1969 to 1973, and a member of the financial committee, the mandate committee, the Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Committee and the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee. As a newly elected representative in 1965, he quickly became the party's fiscal spokesman and needed his good skills to negotiate on difficult issues during the Borten multi-party government. From 1973 to 1977 he was the parliamentary leader of the group. The last period was marked by sharp political contradictions in the view of the Central Party place in the political spectrum. The wave following the Nei majority in the referendum on Norwegian membership of the EEC in 1972 aroused unrest both within the political parties and between the parties. Steenberg supported the loyal party leader Dagfinn Værvik's so-called line of inquiry to the Right, i.e. calls for Government Cooperation Centre – Right. This was not at all uncontroversial to the more radical forces in the party. However, in retrospect, it can be said that Steenberg's calm and balanced attitude, characterized by matter and a pragmatic conservative centre party tradition, helped balance the different views. Steenberg will also be remembered as a strong driver of agricultural income averaging decisions in the Stortinget on 1 December 1975. Steenberg began as State Secretary in the Buskerud Center Party in September 1945. Then the party lay down after difficult years of war, but with Steenberg's hard work and skill, the party soon achieved great results. Divic people came into the party and had themselves nominees for elections. Steenberg joined the county secretary in 1958. Steenberg was head of the district of Buskerud Senterparti 1960-1966. In parallel with that, he was locally engaged as a member of the Lower Eiker Municipal Government 1959-1963, the Presidency 1963–67, the Conciliation Council 1945–1965, the County Tax Board 1955–1968 and the Hospital Name 1965–1967. From 1967 to 1977 he was Vice President of the Center Party. After Steenberg left the Stortinget in 1977, he started the real estate business. He was director of the Norwegian Real Estate Agency in 1978–86 and operated his own business as authorised real estate agent in 1986–1996. His past as an employee of the Norwegian Bank in Drammen 1938–1947, his own audit activities in 1943-1968 and the property brokering examination in 1977 gave solid professional background to this. He was chairman of the company’s meeting in Norsk Olje A/S 1977–1981, the National Auditor of the Riksrevision 1978–1990 and a member of the Council of Norwegian State Railways — the Council of Railways 1982–1989. He was also the rapporteur of the National Parliament 1987-1989, was a member of several banks in 1980-2003 and was a member of the Arbitration Court. He has over all years done community-based work that has benefited the whole country. For that he was honored with the King's medal in gold in December 2007. We thank you for your long and hard work. Former Depositary Representative Ottar Landfall died on 28 December 2009, probably 90 years old. Landfalls were born on 18 May 1919 in Verdal, North Trondelag, as the son of Ole O. and Ingrid Landfall. In 1950 he took over Kåterud farm in Stange, Hedmark, after he had graduated from Norway's agricultural high school the year before. Landfalls were politically active for more than one third of their lives, i.e. over 30 years, at both local and county level, as well as in national policies at Stortinget. His active work started already in 1955, when he was elected as a member of the local government and chairmanship of the home municipality of Stage. Here he laid the basis for his subsequent engagement with the Storting—through a nine-time work for his local voters. In 1963 he became a member of the county council in Hedmark and later a member of the county committee. Landfall made his entrance to the national political arena when he first became an alternate to the Stortinget in 1969 and then became a permanent member from 1973. In his inauguration as an alternate, he was on the Social Committee, the Agriculture Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. Landfall was also the leader of the Hedmark Centerparti for a very important period from 1966 to 1974, as one of the front figures in the fight against Norwegian membership of the EEC. After he was elected as a permanent representative, he became a member of the Defence Committee, a position he held in the two periods he was a permanent representative of the Stortinget. Landfall was more than ‘only’ a defender of the Central Party. He was involved in most social issues, including: in the fight for a differentiated employer’s fee for industry in the districts. In addition, he was critical of the rate of oil extraction and the development of the oil industry, which he thought would create problems for the primary industries and the vulnerable industries here to land. In 1978 he was delegated to the UN General Assembly and spent a good deal of time on international issues. Among the questions he got involved in was the Palestinians' case. Landfall thought a Palestinian state could only be realized by the fact that all countries in the Middle East joined forces on this, and that this was not a question that rested on Israel alone. When it became known that Landfall would not stop for a new period, he said in an interview that it was time for younger forces to take over. At that time he was 62 years old. He went on to say that he had done his social duty. One must be able to join that consideration. So the social obligation was absolutely fulfilled. But even though politics was over, he was still a social person, among other things. as Vice-Chairman of the State grain business from 1983 to 1989. In addition to his position as a national elected representative, he was also active at the various levels of the Confederation, such as the local peasant team, the head of the Confederation's grain selection for eleven years, and a member of the Norwegian Confederation's representation from 1961 to 1969. At all, it was the important food grain that took over Landfall's work, also during his period at Stortinget. There he made several proposals to ensure our food preparedness in the form of more and more cereal stocks. We remember Erland Steenberg and Ottar Landfall with deep respect and gratitude and brighten peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e96	Four permit applications are available: From the representative of Geir Pollestad on parental leave from 6 February to 5 March. From the representative of Line Henriette Hemdal on leave from 8 February to 11 February, and from the representatives of Frank Bakke Jensen and Henning Skumsvoll on leave from 9 February to 11 February, all to take part in the mission of the Parliamentary Arctic Cooperation Delegation to Tromsø and Svalbard. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened for the period from 9 February to 11 February: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn For the State of Finnmark: Anne Karin Olli For Eastfold County: John Thune The following alternate shall be convened for the period from 9 February to 5 March: For the Province of Rogaland: Arne Bergsvåg
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e145	The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e148	On behalf of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I will present a proposal for the transformation of the Radium Hospital into a national competence centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e153	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e156	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe and myself, I am delighted to present proposals for new curricula and more flexible training courses for the professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e161	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e165	On behalf of the big business representatives Solvent Horne, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on the inclusion of e-books in the VAT exemption applicable to literature.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e170	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e173	On behalf of the representative of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to propose a proposal for a representative on enhanced efforts to resolve the train crisis in the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e178	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e192	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e201	First, I would like to thank the proposers for making proposals for reinforced efforts in the fight against bullying in school – a theme that has been given a major cross-political focus in the last six months. This is the third time there is a debate in this Chamber, and all parties have engaged. It shows that the theme is very topical and important, while it shows that the time is ripe to really deal with it. Furthermore, I thank the Council of State for a good answer in the matter. The work of the Committee has been good and constructive. The process has shown us that we have a broad, cross-political agreement on the importance of the matter and on the objective. It's the means we want that are different. We in the Progress Party are happy that bullying is so focused. We see that the problem has increased in the last five years, and we believe that the time is overdue to really tackle the problem now. Early in the fall, the Minister of Knowledge called for bullying to be one of her main priorities. We were very pleased about that, but we missed the measures that were really going to start the fight. We now come to the Progress Party with them. Most recently, more media reported that half of the country’s schools lack good practice in the fight against bullying. It has often led to situations where neither teacher, school manager or school owner knows how to proceed in a bullying case, and that, therefore, far too many times nothing has been done. There are now several good anti-poverty programmes available in schools, for example: Zero, Olweus, etc. Such programmes provide awareness of the problem, both in students, teachers, school managers and school owners. By implementing such a programme or by designing an obligatory anti- bullying action programme, we ensure that schools are obliged to follow given guidelines, incorporate good practices and actively work on the problem at their school. This is what those schools that are currently struggling to find good practice, given in a programme, either locally or centrally designed, will do to prevent the school from feeling inconsistency in such a situation. Unfortunately, one sees that only one third of schools use such programmes. That is why we believe that an anti- bullying programme or a binding action programme against bullying should be compulsory at any school. Furthermore, we have examples of schools where the problem of bullying has not been addressed in a good enough way by the school owner and management. We think that is very unfortunate. Stories of parents who have fought for their child’s right to a day-to-day life without bullying over several years, but have been countered by school owners and management, have emerged. Unfortunately, it is not few of them. The progressing party sees that it is not useful with a good law if there are no consequences to breaking it. 50,000 children are bullied every week. So 50 000 crimes are committed every week without the responsible being held responsible. We believe that sanctions must be imposed in the event of a breach of the law, and that students and officers who are exposed to it will have a real right to compensation. The Progress Party believes that the Training Act is very important and good and that one must ensure that the students are properly cared for under it. We therefore believe that we need to introduce a separate school representative to ensure and ensure that the students' rights under this law are followed up. This school ombudsman shall cooperate with the Children’s Ombudsman and apply as a safety authority also to those working at school. That's how we strengthen the rights of both teachers and students. One cannot talk about bullying without focusing on an important moment, namely accountability for the bullying. One sees that today's practice often is that in cases of bullying it is the victim who has to change school. By 27 January, Namdalsavisa drew up an example of a student who had been subjected to bullying and harassment for several years. What ended up was that the student was taken out of school, was put in an empty administrative building in the municipality and offered education three days a week, without a skilled teacher. We in the Progress Party believe that when there is a situation of bullying, it is always the bully to be held responsible, and not the victim to be punished in such a way as was evident in this case. With this, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is the proposer or the co-rapporteur in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e232	The representative Mette Hanekamhaug has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e235	The proposals of the Christian People's Party are mainly dealt with by the Stortinget earlier, and processes have been initiated in the Ministry of Knowledge. The role of the opposition is to be impatient, and it is good that such an important theme as bullying often comes on the agenda of the Stortinget. I would like to add some comments to the proposals. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, is about a demand that schools have either an anti- bullying program or an obliging action plan against bullying. This has been dealt with in the past in the Storting, and the entire Committee agreed to get the Government to draw up a proposal on how best to implement these measures. It is important to clarify that schools today are obliged to work actively and systematically to promote a good psychosocial learning environment, as stated in the Training Act § 9a. In this context, it is expected that schools will have a plan for carrying out and monitoring this work, regardless of whether the school is using a programme or not. Proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4 are proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone. The proposals illustrate simple solutions to complex problems. With regard to the proposals for the coercive movement of bullies and the substitution issue for bullying victims, these are not measures addressing the real problem. I believe that bullying must primarily be prevented. By going for such proposals, bullying is accepted and will occur in the future. I want to be clear that it is unacceptable that bullying occurs and that we need to find preventive measures. There is a need for schools to work massively with well-being and social inclusion every day, regardless of whether there is bullying at school or not. Proposal No. 2, which is about forcing the bully, doesn't deal with what's really the problem, but leaves it to someone else, to another school. There are complex problems that make some bullies and other bullies. Neither is it easy for one to bully at a school, and for one to be a bully. It might as well be an entire class that is behind the bullying of a single student, and then I wonder what is the solution of the Advance Party. Should the entire class be forced to move? I believe in clear school owners who want to prevent bullying and put this high on the agenda both among their employees, students and parents. Students must understand as early as possible what bullying can cause. Many have mental problems and end up outside society in some way later in life. When it comes to the question of compensation, I wonder if the solution of the Advancement Party is that everyone should be compensated if one feels a little unfairly treated in society. I'm busy finding schemes that lead to less bullying, not more bureaucracy. This proposal involves a system which will not result in minor bullying. It must be realized that the problem is more complicated than that municipalities and county councils, which are school owners, can only pay off if they do not comply with the training law. What is our attitude toward teaching our children? If you do something wrong and can pay for it, the matter is forgotten. If you feel bored, it's just to sue. It's an Americanization of society that I don't want. Proposal No. 4 and proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, respectively, are linked. The Progress Party proposes to set up a school representative, while the Christian People's Party proposes to set up a mob representative. This work has been announced in the past and it will be examined whether the safety of students has been adequately ensured by the existing legislation. The majority in this room is waiting for this investigation. There are no simple solutions to prevent bullying. All good measures at local and central level could help prevent this. At the same time, I think we should be careful to adopt a lot of different measures here in this room that don't give you any idea of the consequences. The most important task is to get the school owner to deal with the problems before they develop, before sanctions have to be imposed, and before anyone gets to ruin their lives and feels that they are entitled to compensation. Finally, I would like to say once again that it is unacceptable that someone is subjected to bullying over a long time without anyone stopping it. The Training Act states that teachers and school leaders need to address the problem of bullying once a student tells about bullying. It does not help to wait and hope that it passes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e256	As the rapporteur said, it is good to experience a case where there is agreement in the Chamber. That sounds good, and it gives some optimism as to why this is something that you should get through. At the same time, we have to remind ourselves that this consensus has probably been in this room for a long time, without removing the issue we are discussing about bullying. It's probably a reality we have to relate to, that in such a case we're going to have zero vision, but we don't see any quick solution to get rid of the problem of bullying. I have to say that I am still shocked when concrete things are raised, where one sees that things have happened over time, as many have known, whether it is between adults and children or between children and children, and it is not intervened. It means to me and to us in the Right that we have another job to do in making the individuals responsible around us. Because what's the challenge in one of these things is, who's taking the job, who's taking it? Then it's not the decision in the main hall that solves the problem, but the fact that we get every human being to take the task and get to grips with it. In this context, the right-wing skepticism of the proposal for an ombudsman is raised. We are simply a little concerned that it may seem like a discharge from others – yes, now there are some people who are going to deal with those matters – while we believe that this is something that needs not to be put on individuals who get a job, but on each one of us as a fellow human being. We must never lose focus on the fact that everyone around our children must have good knowledge of bullying, how it arises, knowledge of discovering it and knowledge of following it up. Here, fellow students are an important element. Here, not least, the teacher, the class manager, the adults at school are an important element, and here school-home cooperation is an important element. We think it's important to focus on that aspect of preventing and tackling bullying in school. A culture must be created in order not to tolerate, and a culture must be created in order to intervene. As many people have been in the past, these are complicated things. I guess it's not two bullying things that have the same concrete solution, because it's people we're talking about. Therefore, it is difficult to adopt mechanisms to intervene and compensate or move people. In this respect, too, the focus is on being competent enough to solve the issues that need to be addressed. The proposal to make demands on schools to have a plan, to have well-worked and thought-out solutions to address the issue of bullying when it occurs is a good proposal for qualifying and creating knowledge about bullying. Therefore, the Right absolutely supports that one should look at it, and believes that that is what should be the main focus of this matter in the future. I am very pleased that the Council of State has also been very clear on in several of the discussions we have had about bullying, that this will follow up, and this will be a look at. Summing up, the right has faith in using every individual person and every individual human being to grips with the bullying, to empower the schools by demanding that they have thought through and made a plan and thus come to the fore on the issue of bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e273	Bullying - pick up for whoever's in charge! There's no one, of course. That's why when bullying stories are presented, when brave bullying victims take the strain they like to face with their story. At the same time, just as seafaringly as we are all against, as the representative Hanekamhaug also well emphasised, it is, and we should all admit that the simple answers to the question of how to get rid of this abomination do not exist. In this Chamber here, and especially in the first few days after a matter has been put on the agenda, there is, like a pressure to expect, especially in the hiking hall, that we politicians should come up with the simple, redeeming answers. We need to show some action. Out of that, there's often a lot of action, and it can sometimes go a little at the expense of reflection. Part of the proposal of the Progress Party in this matter is an example of that. Well argued against by Svein Harberg and Anna Ljunggren. When we talk about bullying, it's important that a person try to be kind of agreeing on what bullying is for something. I went to the Labour Inspectorate's definition, because this has a lot to do with the working environment too. Bullying is when a person repeatedly over time is subjected to negative actions such as harassment, complaining, freezing, wounding or other. So it's typical for the situation that the bullying victim is unable to defend himself. And then there comes a last sentence that's interesting, where it emphasizes: ‘If the opposing parties are equally strong or it is a case of isolated episodes, it is not defined as bullying.’ It sounds right, but the last one's hard, because looking from the outside, it's not that easy to know if it's equivalence in a ratio or not. Then I think it's very important to remember that the individual's experience of the situation is the individual's truth. In a bullying case, there will still be different stories and different perceptions of what has happened or is happening. But the starting point must be: when someone claims to be bullied, or someone points out that someone is being bullied, there is one thing per. definition. Then we have to get hold of it. And then it's often easier to see bullying going on, and that some bullying, and then next time try to knock it down and later prevent such actions. It can be easier than taking hold of the bully. We live at a time when, among large groups in public space, public word changes are actually accepted for bullying. There are many groups outside of school. I can take a random guess: asylum seekers, gays, immigrants, Muslims, chronically ill, obese, disabled, untrained, addicted – it's just to ram up. Many of them stand out at regular intervals and say that they feel bullyed, that they feel harassed, plagued, frozen, etc., not least by many politicians. Many media do well to ensure that this type of bullying is done, and the network and the mobile phone invite you to such harassment. When this problem appears in school and kindergarten, it becomes almost a confirmation that the school mirrors society. It doesn't create society. We get almost the problems in school that we/the community deserve. We can look a long way after a bully-free school if society still almost chooses to assume such a mob culture. In fact, I'm convinced that society has a bigger bullying challenge than school. And what's worse is, the school accepts that it's a problem. The debate here is a good proof of that. The Council of State's response in the debate is a good proof of this. The school accepts that you have a problem, and wants to do something about it. The same is true to some extent also for the time being, but in the public debate room, bullying is often almost a prerequisite for being heard, seen, read. There's something to think about. One must not have worked on this for a long time – it is well underlined in the submissions – to see that much is done by national authorities, school owners, parents’ organisations and students’ organisations. There's a lot of action, and there's a lot of groupings going on. Honor them for all this! There is more and more good research. It's also very important. Not least, it is important for us to see that there is a lot of good work going on in each school. Let's notice for a while! Because at the lowest level, this can be solved first and foremost. In terms of anti- bullying and obligating action plan, we support it in SV. I'm basically kind of in favour of it. But remember, this can be very ritual and give us a false security. Such plans will only be good if they come as a result of a marriage commitment in the individual school community and community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e295	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for their desire to step up their efforts to combat bullying. It is very good that the topic is so often on the agenda, and I think it is great that we have such a great cross-political consensus on this. Before Christmas I talked about Per in my article about bullying. I won't talk about Per today, sail if there are many Pers around. I also talked about bullying as a social problem, which the representative Hagen was also about now, as something that does not arise from his seas, but is being taught. As bullying is not only available in school, but also in workplaces and public spaces, it is therefore important to address it in many contexts – including in committees other than ours. So the call is given! Today’s debate, however, is about school and sincere desire for action to address the problems associated with bullying in school. Bullying is unacceptable. It's about students' work environment, but it's also about students' sea view, belief in future and opportunities to succeed later in life. That's why we need to work continuously to avoid bullying. The Central Party is therefore pleased that the Government is working to introduce anti- bullying programmes or action plans against bullying in all its schools. However, a teacher and a college of teachers must immediately know what to do if they detect bullying. I've got some insight into some of the methods that so far are recommended, and they seem very good. It is particularly good that the entire learning environment is included in that work. School owners have a great responsibility for anti- bullying in municipalities and county municipalities. Secondly, it is very important that the headmaster or principal take the entire teaching team to work against bullying. Cooperation and commitment to school management are essential. However, the individual teacher is essential in order to create a good class environment where there is no room for bullying. A safe teacher sets clear boundaries and is clear about respecting them, both in terms of acceptable behaviour and respect for adults and fellow students. Bullying occurs for many reasons. Some people might be completely irrational. The most difficult thing about bullying can be that it is often not the visible bully that is behind the physical or mental bullying, but ‘backers’ who do not appear. Therefore, it is so very important that one goes into the problem carefully when one discovers bullying. It is important that one takes the whole chain of those involved, not just a ‘sender’ or a ‘doer’. The complexity means that one should be very careful and very careful about what one does when it goes so far that one talks about moving students. Only detection of the bullying itself can be complicated. There are many reasons why those who bully won't stand up or tell anyone. These should also be aware of. The digital possibility of bullying makes it extra difficult, but if possible even more important to work continuously against bullying and harassment. The Central Party believes that today’s student representative in the counties and the Central Children’s Ombudsman are entities that should naturally deal with more serious bullying. The creation of a central student representative, as requested by the County Student Ombudsman, is an exciting idea that needs to be considered. It is important that no representative is created just because one has created something and displayed action, but that it actually has a content and a meaningful mole. The centre party is pleased that the government has stepped up its efforts to combat bullying and is satisfied with the measures planned and implemented. We look forward to the supervisory reports from the statesmen, and we have great expectations for the implementation of anti- bullying programs around the different schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e318	Today, in the newspaper of Day, we read again that more than half of Norwegian schools are violating the work environment law of their children because they lack proper routines in the fight against bullying. We also read that there are 50,000 people who experience weekly bullying and that it is 10 pst. by our schoolchildren. There is no doubt that being bullyed can set lasting tracks. Six out of ten children and young people referred to children’s psychiatric institutions have been subjected to bullying. We read that many people experience this weekly. They know that when they go to school again, they will be tormented, humiliated, harassed and feel outcast and lonely. Many people spend their whole lives working out bad experiences from childhood and childhood. Some are able to find resources in all the evil they have experienced, and take the fight for their own lives and stand on the road. In 2002, the Bondevik II government launched Manifesto against bullying and launched the zero vision, and fortunately opposed the slight ridicule with which the political environment met it, after both King Harald and Prime Minister Bondevik held new years against bullying, and schools were offered anti- bullying programmes with documented effect. Although it might not have been the manifest itself that gave focus and effect, we saw the measurable effect gradually. The strong focus and ambitious goals gave results. While the bullying increased by an average of 10 pst. in the year 1995–2001, bullying was reduced by 30 pst in 2004. Unfortunately, we see that the focus has disappeared in recent years, and that the number of bullying has increased. The increase is particularly high in youth. There are also significantly fewer schools using anti- bullying programmes, and this shows that we still have to keep up the fight against bullying. It must be clearly displayed, and it must be kept constantly. There are some teachers who have a scepticism about bullying programs, and they have an idealistic attitude that we should be able to get this integrated into the usual schoolwork. But we also know that everyday life is often taken by all the other goals you need. That's why we believe that getting a binding action plan or an anti- bullying programme will be incredibly important to keep it under pressure, and we're not going to lose it. We also see that this is not just about what we should do when bullying occurs, but it is also about what we get to do in school before bullying – in a preventive context. I believe that equipping our children and young people with greater relationship skills should be higher on the agenda. I refer to, for example: The Shell/Should not program is just such a program that helps increase the relationship between students and teachers and creates some common rules on which we can act. Then I understand the warning from SV and the representative Hagen that it can be "ritual": we have an action programme, we have an action plan, and then it kind of becomes a sleep cushion. That's why the Christian People's Party, as we have suggested, wants its own bully out in every state that's just going to make sure that it's not just a paper that's in order, where one can tick on what one has to do – a bully that can be involved and contribute to the difficult conflicts that the schools are unable to resolve, from which the teachers can get advice and help, but which, not least, the families can turn to when they experience that the school doesn't take it. Because when families come up with their challenges to school, not all schools meet them with understanding. We see in the newspaper today that they do not have a thoughtful plan for how to do this. I am pleased – and I have boasted of that before in this Chamber – that the new Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, has a new commitment and a new pressure on this matter. It gives me hope, but that doesn't mean that we're not going to keep going in the Storting and press on to see if we can get better solutions. I think we had managed to get a bully out in every state – which could have been the proponents that both King Harald and Prime Minister Bondevik were before, at the national level – we might have been able to have these debates regularly in this room. I believe that we can get a change of mind, that we can take greater steps to get rid of these problems, and that we can stop bullying, but then we need a deep mobilization of attitudes based on that we've decided that we won't have bullying in school. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e341	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e345	I would like to begin by promoting the two proposals from the Left, which have been distributed in the Chamber, which I believe affect a lot of the core here, and which I would like to have included in the comitology as well. I believe that the most important of all inputs to combating bullying can be described in one word: teachers. Good teachers, safe teachers, teachers who can be leaders in the class situation, teachers who can manage, teachers who are safe on their subject, and who are safe on being adult leaders in relation to the kids, that's the important thing. Therefore, teacher training — continuing training of teachers, ensuring that we have a good teacher training — is at the heart of getting rid of bullying. That is why we have tabled proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox My fear here is that we think we should kill the bully with bureaucracy. I don't think so. I think, on the contrary, that the teacher who is a good class leader, who dares to have a great deal of room for action on what you can do to get out of the situation you are in, is the teacher who manages to find the best solutions as well. Turning the trend in the youth group for which you are a leader is sometimes very untraditional and trying something completely new, and sometimes going a little outside the usual framework. So my fear of the Progress Party's approach in this case is that they think we should get out of this with law and bureaucracy and a code, while I think you do it with good, competent adults who make wise choices, and who also have a room for action to do it. The second is that this is a field we really don't know so much about, sail if we beat around us with a lot of knowledge. The behavioral research center says there's been a dramatic increase in the last year. Nevertheless, in the Left we have a proposal here, as this is really an area where we should have researched more, figure out what is the basis, what creates the situations, what things work, what things don't work. It's important to give the teachers to go into it, the professional ballad. The reason why we in the Left do not support the compulsory bullying programme, which is to be introduced in all schools, is that the various bullying programmes we have are just a method. There are schools that have introduced the bullying programme and have increased bullying. It doesn't help to introduce a method if you don't work after it, and if you don't also have a work team that is dedicated and believe that this works. That's why I don't believe that steering schools to work in certain ways is what solves this, it's rather opposite the freedom to work in good ways that do it. Then I'm a little worried about the whole Storting's belief that everything can be solved by representative. For me, it's about undermining our whole role as elected representatives. The reason why this matter is in the Stortinges Hall now is that many parents have contacted us. There's been a lot of people's reactions, there's been campaigns online, there's been a lot of things that's happened, which makes elected representatives lift this into the hall. Had we had an agent who had taken care of it, this had never been a matter in the Storting Hall. There would never have been any problem for us as politicians that someone has been exposed to this, if we delegated it to an agent. Now we're going to have the Nav agent, and we're going to have all sorts of other agents for all the things that we receive inconvenient e-mails about. I am because politicians receive unpleasant e-mails, and that we sort it out. That's our job. Putting it on a tender for some ombudsman scheme, I believe, is undermining our entire elected system. I believe that it should not be an agent who is informed. I believe that local politicians can be told that this school is not working out. Then it's local politicians who are going to sort it out, it's their job as elected representatives to do it. Postponing everything to an ombudsman system, I believe, is undermining our entire democracy. So I got to say it -- I know this is a lot of commitment. So I think we need to have systems that help parents deal with problems, and maybe we should create templates for parents for how to deal with it. I also believe that a very much larger tool related to health sisters, janitors, special education and everything in it needs to be done to solve this. I think we also have to look at the outdoors in our schools, that we don't have the outdoors that are so small that the push between the youth environments gets even bigger. But at the bottom of this, there is also a parental responsibility – a parental responsibility that is about how to talk about other people around the dinner table with their children present, and what backing you give your children about how to behave to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e362	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e365	First, I would like to commend both the Committee and the Stortinget for having this debate, because it is actually part of the fight against bullying it as well. Having a high political focus on this matter inspires all those out there who are critical of how it works to stand on. I have no intention of spending any time on which prime minister is best in the fight against bullying, nor on the discussion about whether or not it is increasing, but the greatest and widest knowledge base we now have, namely the Student Survey, shows that 5 pst. by the students indicate that they are being bullied every week. It's either way too high. It has remained stable for many years. It is unacceptable that so many children and young people are afraid to go to school every day, and experience a life where they are shrinked and tormented and subjected to abuse from others. In that fight we have to think long-term and short-term at the same time. We have to think of it both as a marathon race and as a hundred meters, because it's about taking action immediately, but it's also about systematically working with a learning environment over time. It's not about a skipper roof now and then, it's about systematic working every single day around at all the country's schools. It is very important to involve many if one is to take the fight against bullying seriously, and therefore we have followed up Manifesto against bullying. It's just this kind of cooperation that involves a lot of parties. I've had meetings with a lot of different actors on this: the Children's Ombudsman, the Parent's Committee for Primary School, I've talked to those behind the Ulweus programme, last week I was in Stavanger at the Center for Behavioral Research at the University of Stavanger, and I'm going to have a round at the University of Oslo on this too. The meetings I've had give us a much clearer picture. I also notice that the committee has spent a lot of time getting involved in this, because it is easy to be – what to say – morally upset about the abuse that is taking place, but it is also important to have a high level of knowledge about what to do. We need more knowledge – Trine Skei Grande is absolutely right. We need more knowledge and research on what creates bullying. We've ordered a special analysis of the bullying payments in the Student Survey, and we'll look at what characterises schools with high levels of bullying over time, and with low levels of bullying over time, to make sure we have the most knowledge possible. It's actually an important part of the fight against bullying itself. In 2010, we will carry out national school supervision. The survey referred to in the Newspaper today is a preliminary work on the supervision that is going on. We've just asked, because we were afraid that the writing in how to proceed if you're near a bully is too bad. It shows that supervision and preparation for supervision work and is a method that we need to use. It is also important for supervision to function as a guide, to provide advice on what to do, and it is important not to give up until all cases are closed. So, where you've found that something is missing, you don't have to give up until it's settled in it. In order to get a better starting point for further work, I have asked the Education Directorate to find out what is common in serious bullying, i.e. things that go on for a long time without being solved. That investigation is to be based on the fact that the county officials are just addressing the examples they have, and then we are using it to assess what kind of further action we are going to take at the central and local level. This investigation shall take place in the first half of 2010. So to the proposal on bullying agents: I have asked for an investigation to see if we need a central agent. It may well be the Children's Ombudsman who gets extended tasks, it's not safe we need a new one. The point of that is not to depoliticize or to take responsibility away from politicians, but there are some parents who are out of despair as to where one can get help in a single matter to reach out to stop bullying. It goes a little beyond what is the role of policymakers, but of course it is the role of local politicians. Then the Ombudsman's function is to help and follow him, if necessary, precisely to the local policy environment. It is important to have the debate that the Left draws up. Too many people don't get there, and you need a lot of resources to get there. I can come back to some of the other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e394	Most recently, the media notes that half of Norwegian schools lack good practices to prevent or prevent bullying. Neither teacher, school manager or school owner knows what to do, nor how to get hold of it. Unfortunately, you can see that in several cases there will be no one getting hold of it, and nothing will be done. My question to the Council of State is therefore: how does she view this situation, and how does she possibly want to ensure that all schools get good enough routines to solve such problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e401	This knowledge that there is too much to be done in terms of school preparedness – that’s what this really is about – in serious bullying is because we’ve asked about it precisely because we’re going to oversee the learning environment in 2010 and 2011. It is our action in the fight against bullying that shows these results. It's unacceptable, because the law that works today is so to understand that you have to be prepared in writing – a scheme for some kind of fire drill – to deal with serious bullying. There's no doubt about it. Through supervision, detection and clarification, that is what is expected when you read the law, we will ensure that there is a high focus both in 2010 and 2011 on how to move forward in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e406	It will follow up on the same theme. It may not be unnatural when we have this matter here now and have newspaper headlines today. I want to commend the Council of State for warning of supervision, and for helping to improve the situation. But we're getting very concerned when we see that there are so many people who are not in place today. That means there are students in school every single day that don't get the help they should have. On the basis of the figures presented, has the Council of State assessed any immediate steps to bring this up on the agenda before the supervision comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e413	Monitoring in 2010 is an immediate measure. It's right around the corner that you're starting to review them. But I think there might be some schools that aren't aware of what the law means, and that the Education Directorate expects you to have a written plan at each school on what to do if you get away with these kinds of things. Now it's very clear to everyone. So it's just going on. There is no need to sit and wait for supervision to take these problems seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e418	Just until the last one: I also want to say that this is very important to get in place, but we must not forget prevention, and not just look at what we do when the situation arises. The county has today a role that may include a bit of what the Christian People's Party has in its proposal, namely a bully out in the county. But I don't think it's like when a family experiences bullying, they say, "Aha, I'm calling the countyman." That's why the Christian People's Party wants us to clarify the role that the county council has today, in a different way, and maybe use the name'mubber ombudsman' to get this done. Because then you can get in early, you can be a proponent and contribute skills and just solve the individual issues. Will the Council of State in the review she is going to have with regard to representatives, see if it is possible to move it a little closer to those that actually apply, so that there will be a resource for teachers, family and school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e425	What we've been basing on first of all when we discuss ombudsmen is whether the Swedish solution for an ombudsman function is something that we can also use. There's a couple of reasons for that. One is that we know that there are serious bullying cases also in Norway, but no one has reached the legal system with these kinds of cases. Of course, I don't want many of these things, but it's not a good sign that we know about gross abuse where you can't get there. It updates that we look at whether the law is good enough, but also that you get the opportunity to get help somewhere, including legal help, if you are in an extreme situation related to bullying. That's what's the starting point. But then the representative Dagrun Eriksen is absolutely right in saying that the county has an important role here, which I am not sure everyone knows about. I'm definitely going to help create more attention around that there's a place you can expect to get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e432	I have a very short line. The left has tabled two proposals here today. One goes on, which probably the Council of State is familiar with, teachers and teacher competence and class management, and the other goes on knowledge and research in this area. These were two things that the Council of State also mentioned in its statement as important. I'm open to making proposals for transmission proposals if only the Council of State can say that these are wise things, so I can be absolutely sure that she's following this up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e440	Yes, I fully agree with what these proposals contain, and we are in the process of doing so. I was particularly concerned in my article about the fact that we need more knowledge. I got a little less time for the teachers, but I'd like to use the opportunity now. What's a red thread in Trine Skei Grande's posts is that we're dependent on using your head and having the commitment to making the fight against bullying and for a good learning environment actually work in the last term. Then it doesn't help to adopt all the world's plans or anything. Then we depend on the teacher and the principal to have competence. It is absolutely vital that we succeed. I am very concerned that both teacher training and the provision of continuing education – and what is now offered at the principal’s school – contain just how to work with a good learning environment. Then there's a good set-up on the Education Directorate's websites about how to work with a good learning environment, so all schools really have an opportunity to get started quickly, and all teachers can also go in and see there. [[The President clubs.]] That key is just deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e449	I then made the two proposals for transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e454	Without speaking time it is registered. The President will remind the Council of State that she too must wait until she is given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e459	Let me begin by commending the Council of State for what I feel is a somewhat more constructive approach to the opposition than some of her colleagues in the committee have. Supervision is important. That is also what the Council of State believes. Many of the inspections we have carried out reveal clear violations of the Training Act – a work environment law that applies to students; students that we at Stortinget have required to attend school. But when we know that the supervision we've had is constantly uncovering violations of the Training Act, what do we do to ensure that the Council will assess whether these violations of the Training Act will have consequences for the school owner? What do you need to do to have consequences for the school owner when the school owner repeatedly breaks the Education Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e466	It is not that there are no consequences related to a violation of the law, but it is not that what we are primarily looking for when we supervise is villains in School-Norway that we can take on the peach, so we really get to hang them out to spit and spit. Supervision is a measure. Most people who run schools want to run it well, but they don't always know how to do it, and they're not always sufficiently aware of how the law is to be understood. Supervision is a measure to make schools aware of how to follow the law and how to provide a good learning environment. We're not going to give up supervision until the schools that have been picked out have everything in place, and it's teaching the schools around as well. There shall also be guidance related to these inspections so that schools know what they are expected to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e473	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1663]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e493	This interpellation is inspired by the fact that Norwegian municipalities show very different levels of ability to address the challenges faced by the school. The promise of knowledge is a promise to all students that society should facilitate equal opportunities for different students in school. The importance of basic skills is the very bottom-up part of the new school reform, while stressing that the reform will lead to a much more systematic quality follow-up at school — in the interests of students. It is important that changes in school are based on knowledge, and it is positive that Norwegian education research is now beginning to gain a volume that provides a basis for qualified advice to authorities when new choices need to be made. We know a lot about what works and what doesn't work. We know a lot about what kind of school ownership is lifting the results. We see a new trend in Skole-Norway: The municipalities that most loyally carry out the Knowledge promise withdraw from the other municipalities. Success criterion No one is a high level of ambition and systematic monitoring and follow-up of learning outcomes. In a recent seminar on educational research, researchers themselves also underlined that Norway has taken long steps in the right direction in terms of the breadth and quantity of school research. The question is how good we are to make use of research so that students meet a school with the ability to learn and improve where there are obvious weaknesses. The latest news is that several television channels have created ‘reality’ televisions from Norwegian classrooms. These are clearly opinions and have created a great debate. Debate is healthy and should be welcomed by everyone who is busy at school. The fact that Norway is 40 pst. above the OECD average in appropriations per year. Students, but not able to translate this economic effort into equivalent student outcomes, may be one of the main challenges facing Norway. For too long, the school has been the arena of various experiments and has fluctuated in response to different educational orientations. Norwegian education research has been on the blush for a long time, but luckily, developments have turned around here. In addition, the new research programme, Education 2020, under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, offers that school and education research remain a high priority. But it's a paradox that, according to the researchers, we still know more about what doesn't work than what works, meeting the everyday challenges of school. Along the Norwegian school road we find today a number of warning triangles: Norwegian students still perform too poorly compared to their peers in countries we can compare with, and they meet with low expectations. Schools are plagued by time theft and spend time on much more than knowledge. Too many students experience bullying at school. School management hasn't had a focus, and the school owners aren't enough at the ball. Supervision is carried out but not followed up and rarely has consequences. On several occasions, the right has warned against a trend towards A-schools and B-schools. At the seminar in the Norwegian Research Council, I felt that the researchers were very much in agreement with us. They show a clear difference between the ability of municipalities to follow-up when different forms of school failure are identified. Once national supervision has revealed that 70 pst. of the municipalities do not have order in all their school cases, this is serious, because the students are given the school they attend. A few municipalities have given parents and students the right to choose a school, but these municipalities are the exception and not the rule in Norway. When the results of the national tests now reveal that large municipalities systematically have better student outcomes than small municipalities, and that this gap seems to increase, national authorities are not indifferent. The Education Directorate is concerned, and perhaps the Council of State is also concerned. Thus, in a review of international studies including Norwegian school, the SSB last autumn summarized that the main explanation of failed student performance seems to be low learning pressure and poor assessment culture in Norwegian school. The evening post used to have this week a case about Ljan school in Oslo, which is masters in reading. The secret of the reading success is probably so simple that the students have been met with high expectations from teachers, the principal and the municipality. The school has worked closely with the parents and has had them as close allies to push the students to read more, not to plague them, but to help them, for reading is the key to mastering all other subjects. The rector says that the school has been deliberately and heavily involved in reading as a basic knowledge in recent years, and this has not been unexpected in other subjects than Norwegian. Ten-year-old Ninni Weisser Eide from Class 5S said it so well: “Sometimes it’s tiring, but when we see how good results we get, we’re glad they did it.” Knowledge cannot be stepped into the minds of the students. If knowledge is to be valuable, it must be processed and understood in order to be applied in other situations. It seems obvious that Norwegian students should work more, not less. Then there is no time to abolish homework. But I agree with those who say that homework is not a prerequisite for mastering, and lessons that are not reviewed by teachers afterwards are meaningless and probably work against their purpose. National tests are in place to verify the development of pupils in key disciplines. The Oslo School is now gaining more and more results. I am convinced that there is a close link between the positive development and the municipality's clearly expressed ambitions on behalf of the school and the municipality's very systematic follow-up of schools, teachers and individual students when it does not go as one had hoped. Both the City Council and the Education Director are clear that the school should and must have the ambition to give all pupils, regardless of their own and their parents’ background, the same opportunity to succeed in Oslo School. This also affects the municipality's resource allocation. It is becoming increasingly clear that municipalities and schools that have systematically used the results of national tests also produce better results in the next round. In the evening post on Tuesday 2 February, State Secretary Lisbet Rugtvedt said that schools need help to follow up poor results, and that municipalities are now required to follow the school results. Rugtvedt also indicated that all municipalities should produce a quality report to be processed by the local authorities. ‘It may help several municipalities to do what is successful, namely to follow up the results’, said the State Secretary. These are new tones from the Government, which Right welcomes. But what does it mean for municipalities to follow the school results? How is the Ministry actually going to make sure that the municipalities are doing something bad? And why does the Ministry not have an explicit strategy on how to deal with municipalities that do not take school seriously enough? Earlier this week I had a conversation with a principal in a municipality in the county I come from. There had been some considerations relating to the presentation to local politicians of the average results of the national tests to that municipality. But what kind of school and what kind of municipality can govern by average results that can cover large internal differences? If local politicians are to be good, they need to know more. We can't rule Norwegian school on average. I am afraid that the municipality is not a special case. I'm afraid that all the almost hysteria that is created around not publishing the results actually makes many municipalities unable to provide their school politicians with good enough information and good enough decision-making basis to do their job as well as it should be done at all. In fact, I call on the Council of State and the education directors to do a job by clarifying the level at which local politicians will have access to these test results, so that they can do the job that parents hope they can do, and that is the job they have to do if this is a tool that will benefit students, and that will also help the individual school to work on its starting point, and what you're struggling with. So I feel that the regime that is created around national tests and the way they are to be published – codes, etc. in order to gain access — in fact, it is now becoming a drawback and a disadvantage for the school, in that it does not provide the basis for decision-making and the informed debate in the school committees and in the local government that is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to raise the results, not only in municipalities but also in single schools and at class level.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e545	I want to start by saying, of course, that it is the challenges in school that become the topic when we discuss this in Stortinget. But we have to draw a picture of what's going on around, and also take with us all the incredibly good work that's going on. I changed my job a few months ago, and it's one thing that strikes me like a big paradox. On the one hand, when you travel around the world, or international delegations come to Norway, they ask about Norwegian and Nordic success. What enables you to have such a good welfare society, what makes it so high productivity, what makes it possible to have an economic growth – not just because of the oil, but because we actually work pretty well here in the country – and have a good society? And then, when I've changed the field, there's a cloud of results on how bad things are at school, and how bad the test results are, etc. So I can't believe that the valley can create the society that, after all, succeeds so well. So the starting point is that there's a lot of work that's good and right around Norwegian schools every day, and that's what we have to encourage. At last, we depend on having people out there who know they're doing a good job. That's the one. The second thing I want to underline is a little funny – and as the representative of Allakt really emphasizes when she quotes this teen who thought it was strenuous to read, but who was happy afterwards: It's hard to learn! So it's not like learning something new is something you do without trying to do. It may be an amazing effort to learn something new, but it's the feeling of mastering more and more that makes people grow. So we don't have to go around to School-Norway and say that now you have to relax a little bit, because here it's just food. It's exhausting to learn, it's amazing fun, and it's the mixture of pain and fun that makes you a human being that can contribute. The results of the national tests are public. What we don't do is we publish them through ranking. What may be a challenge in some municipalities is that for privacy reasons, the results are not published in some small schools, because at the end of the day the results of individual students may be available. It's the only constraints that are set. I have followed the media on how to discuss the results of the national tests. It's very strange, but it's often like a single school here and there is hanging out one way or the other. There may be decimals that separate you who are assigned to the best school in a municipality, and one that gets referred to as the worst. There is a small debate on how to use the national samples. I'd like to look at how to now discuss quality at school locally, because I think you can both over-interpret and misinterpret the results of the national tests. It is important to know how to read them in order to get out the information that can say something about how the school works is making a difference in the development of the students. I'd like to get back to how we're going to do it. So until what we have of research and knowledge of learning: luckily, there is a significant and important research. I think that many of the results are presented with more question marks than necessary, for some things we know – that is, the representative Alzacht is right in – about what is crucial, for example. the role of the teacher. At the end of the day, we know that having a teacher who manages to meet with the student in such a way that you encourage learning, address the young person’s challenges, make training relevant, use more learning methods, is a natural and secure authority, has control — and that you have a good principal, who also follows up — is the key. That's why teacher training is so important. That is why mentoring for fresh teachers is so important. This is why continuing training for teachers is so important. That's why the principal's school, which we now have a significant number of students at, and where the number of students is going to increase, is so important. We have provided many messages to the Stortinget about quality in school and how to ensure students' rights. Both the message Quality in School, the message Education Line and the message Teacher – The role and education show the measures we have taken. I just want to re-emphasize how important the efforts of the teachers are. We have a unique cooperation, GNIST, with many partners, for example. KS and the Education Association, also to recruit good people to choose the teacher's school. We are now in the process of new teacher training, which is going to be in two steps around, and it is important that we manage to keep the search, which increased a lot last year, at a high level. So to the Time Usage Committee, which the representative Aspaker was in. It also underlines the importance and vitality of school management for the focus on a work situation. It underlines the importance of just getting time for training, and how to clear other time thieves in school everyday life to ensure that you have time to follow up on each individual student. So to some of what's a challenge in terms of the results of the national tests and other knowledge we have about what school life looks like. One characteristic that we find is that small municipalities here struggle to follow up their schools in the same way that large municipalities do. I think it is a major challenge for us: how should we support those municipalities that individually have little resources to build the system that large municipalities can implement, but which, perhaps through cooperation – perhaps with stronger follow-up from us and from the Education Directorate – can work much more systematically to assess the results they have, assess the quality of school, systematically focus on both how to ensure that teachers are filled and qualified, and how to increase the quality at all stages? Based on the way I'm currently summarizing the national tests, it's the biggest challenge we have, namely how we support and help the smaller municipalities. For many of the things in which the representative Alzaks is involved, read and adopted general truths in School-Norway, for example. that we have too bad a culture of assessment. Assessment isn't just about saying that you're a slut, or how nice it is. It's about giving clear feedback about what you're mastering, what you can reach for, and how to work to get on. It's something that characterizes not only School-Norway – it probably characterizes society as a whole. But at least teachers say that they get too little concrete feedback from the principal, the principal says they get too little concrete feedback from their school owners, i.e. the municipalities, and the students say they get too vague feedback from the teachers. It's also one of the things that's being addressed in the Time Usage Committee. Here it's not the amount of assessment, so how many pages does the teacher write about the student, which is the most important. Here, it is clear, concrete assessment that is crucial. We have a lot of different plans going on to follow up on this; we have different programs. But I just want to say two words about supervision in the end. It is quite obvious that too many schools perceive the law as unclear, not quite knowing what to do to comply with it, and there are too many who do not have enough attention to it. Supervision is a measure. [[The President clubs.]] What we are doing now in 2010 and 2011 is to ensure that we do not close supervision until those cases are closed. [[The President clubs.]] Supervision is a way of guiding and giving advice. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e579	The President must remind us that the speaking time for the longest is over. The President must also remind the Council of State that the interpellant is called Aspaker and not Alsacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e582	I'm sorry. I know, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e587	That's very good. There was also a representative here named Alsaker, but it's been a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e590	Yes, it is. It's amazing how many years I've been here!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e595	The Minister of Knowledge is absolutely right that there is a lot of good in Norwegian school, and we do not have to repair what works. But what doesn't work, at my discretion, we have a right and an obligation to stay with and try to do something with. I also agree with the emphasis the Council of State makes on the teacher, and there we have research so that it keeps confirming and stressing that it is the most important input we have in school. At the same time, however, we see that access to continuing education and the way in which teachers are followed up – feeling safe – varies a great deal. From such a recruitment point of view, it is clear that there is also a major challenge here that the professional school owners who take good care of the teachers will always get teachers, and that the smaller professionals may have to put in the queue – and we can also get differences as a result of it. Then the Council of State was also in the chain of management, because there must be a functioning of all branches. The school owner must lead, the principal must lead, and the teacher must lead in the classroom. And at this point, we have to say, well, to what extent you've taken this in and prioritized it, probably it's very different. So the researchers also told us something when we were at this seminar, about what was being run after Norwegian school. They were concerned that we have a lot of target management in Norwegian school, and then they ask how concrete it really is, compared to the municipalities that are now very clear on, almost down on individual students, setting goals for students and managing for student performance that you want to improve where they are not good enough. And then they say that probably some of the progress in some of the municipalities that do the best is attributed to being so concrete that you now set other types of goals for how the school is going to evolve, and for what to measure by. The councils also stated that we had had many reports about the school during the previous period. I agree with that, but we have to make sure that the notification is also translated into practice. It is the difficult way from good wording and things we agree on are important, and over to the field of practice that is perhaps the most important challenge. I would like to challenge the Council of State, when we now see that the municipalities have so different ability to follow up and to give advice, and to be guides to what is perhaps one of the most important services in society, namely running the school: how can the director of education become an even more important tool towards those municipalities – perhaps the smallest – that have the greatest challenges, and that also do not have the skills on board that one should have in order to manage the school well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e610	The key words for the job that I'm in the process of doing are helping School-Norway carry out what we know is right, what is the content of the reforms that have been adopted, and supporting it during the work that is going on outside. There's nothing new to think about. A reform is not a reform if it exists only between the Stortinget, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education. We have to make sure that our knowledge of how to work is out there, where it works every day, and we have to back up. We are now in the process of systematizing the knowledge that the national tests give us. That's the picture that I was in before, that the smaller municipalities have some significant challenges. Of course, there are also many other findings. I am now working to see how we can work systematically to support those municipalities that have the biggest challenges, and how we can ensure that the Education Directorate and the education director in the counties are involved in that work. It is quite obvious that some municipalities need guidance. They also need help and support to do a better job. So to a couple of other things that are crucial. The representative Aspaker actually illustrates the shifts in Norwegian education policy very well even in the post she had. An important part of the thinking that Kristin Clemet stood for was that one should delegate as much as possible, one should make sure that each school was the one that made the curricula, etc. Now there's a little bit more of a cry that you're pulling it back again. I think that too many of the smaller municipalities have been delegated too much, and there have been too many expectations. Many teachers say that, for example: The work with the curricula has been enormously time consuming around the schools. It is a strong desire to get more help on how to proceed, and not necessarily to work through this and to make the teaching programmes yourself. Here it's incredibly important to find a balance point locally. I think it's nice if a school owner, for example. At municipal level, individual liver arrangements are discussed. It is obvious that the school, the teacher and the principal are responsible for this. But the fact that the school owner goes in and discusses the quality of school and what is the cause of different outcomes is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e621	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting quality in the school on the agenda here in this room. There are many aspects to the interpellation and many comments that can be related to the issues addressed. It is a very comprehensive theme. I want to start by talking a little bit about the teacher, because the teacher is the school's most important resource. Without dedicated teachers who have a high level of competence in their field of education, we can find it difficult to achieve high quality in Norwegian school. This is why a new teacher training is started from the fall of the year. It will educate better teachers. There are also several places in higher education institutions, and we have an recruitment campaign, GNIST, which has led more young people to apply for this important profession. I'm glad that former knowledge minister Bård Vegar Solhjell put down the Time Usage Committee to get an overview of what the teachers spend their time on. We are aware that the teachers are under pressure and that the expectations of society for this profession are high. In addition, we want the school to take care of so much more than just teaching the basic skills. I see completely that this is a challenge. We have to free time for the teacher, so that time is spent on teaching and not other things. As this sample concludes, school owners and school managers must facilitate the use of relevant competences from other occupational groups in schools, occupational groups such as socionomists, child protection educators and several health sisters. But the school also has to recruit people from business to fractions or full-time positions in school. Cooperation between school and home is important in order to ensure that the teacher’s time is not used to ensure that students, for example: the teacher can start teaching when it really has to. Many parents will be more involved in school. This must be taken seriously by the school and the school owner. There are particular challenges in the transition to high school or high school, but we know that even if children grow up, parents will know what school does to get better education, better quality and well-being in school. A reform break has been announced in Norwegian school for a long time. This supports the Time Usage Selection, and there is also something the Workers' Party agrees with. It will take time for the promise of knowledge to take place. But a reform break does not mean a development break. Times are still changing, and there will be a constant need for adjustments. Like the interpellant, I'm concerned that the Knowledge Lift is going to be the carrier in Norwegian school. We have to make sure that the school complies more closely with decisions taken in this room. The supervisory authorities will then need to be strengthened and the regulatory follow-up of schools will have to be monitored. This is essentially the task of the Education Directorate. The Ministry, together with the Directorate, shall consider how deviations are followed up by the State. This is very good. To ensure that everyone receives the same education wherever you live, it is necessary to ensure a level playing field across the country. In Norway, we have many small municipalities with major challenges related to attracting people. new-educated teachers. Many municipalities do not at all discuss the content and quality of school in local government. It's mostly about economics. The rapporteurs have a special responsibility for this. I believe that municipalities should have strategies for quality development in schools that include leadership training, continuing training of teachers and the follow-up to the results of national tests. In addition, there is a need for school-based competence in municipalities. If a municipality scores below the average on national samples, this must be recorded in the local government and debated in the same way as a budget deficit. The fact that students are not sure about appropriate training and that the Knowledge promise has not been followed up in the municipalities is, of course, a problem for the Stortinget and the Government, and we have to take that into account, but much of the responsibility lies with the municipalities. We need to enable school owners and school leaders to take the important responsibility for making the future population good and active citizens of society. The Time Use Committee also proposes to strengthen school management, and they believe that good management appears to be the key prerequisite for good time use in school. This applies to both school management and classroom management. The government has already strengthened the management of the school sector through, for example: new training of the principal. Leadership education is a prerequisite for good schools, which in turn recruit good teachers. But we also need to look at several measures. The Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy are committed to ensuring a qualitatively good educational cycle for all, irrespective of their place of residence, ethnic background, gender or economy. School policy is at the root of today's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e644	First, I would like to thank the representative Aspaker for raising an interview about the challenges in Norwegian school, but let's not forget that it's also very good. Since the international tests, such as PISA, were introduced, we have been aware that professional benefits and school outcomes are relatively weak. There is also no sign of a noticeable improvement in the results. Some tests show that it is worse, measured over several years. We are also below the OECD average according to the 2006 PISA study. And then we're going to assume that we're going to use approx. 40 pst. more resources than the OECD average, it is appropriate to focus on what needs to be done to improve the professional benefits of schooling for students. It turns out that being at the top of the world of spending money in school has not resulted in our being at the top of the world in terms of results. There is evidence that changes need to be made, and in this way the problems of the interpellation are unfortunately still relevant. The right to adapted training is granted to students, inter alia: It is very dependent on the ability of teachers to assess the individual's needs, in class management and dissemination, and at the same time it is not possible to get past the fact that the municipality's economy can also be significant. At that time, it is up to the individual local government to grant money to the school sector — in most cases in strong competition with many other statutory and necessary tasks. The Progress Party is therefore in favour of state funding of the school, given according to criteria where the individual student’s needs are a factor in funding. This will also provide a better basis for Norwegian students to be given equal rights to adapted training, irrespective of their place of residence. The Progress Party will also have free schooling and open up several private schools, so that seniors can choose which school they want their children to attend. This will provide a diversity of schools and provide competition for the benefit of students. In addition to a diversity of schools, the Progress Party believes in a greater degree of organised education and practice. The party of progress has noticed and is pleased that the Council of State has given positive signals in this way. The daily magazine writes on 1 February this year that in the last five years, the number of students receiving special education has increased by over 30 pst. It's a shame it has to go as far as special education. At an earlier stage, the school must take into account and teach the students according to their abilities and assumptions. It is claimed from several quarters that teachers give uncritical feedback to the student no matter what the outcome is at the nursery. In St.meld. No 30 for 2003–2004, Culture for learning, shows that students meet too low demands for results. The message states that teachers must provide ‘sufficient external pressure’ in learning. Ratings and proper feedback are motivating. When children begin school, they usually have great expectations of what is going to happen and are happy to learn to read and write. In other words, the willingness to learn is on top, and the willingness to repeat lessons in reading and writing so that it sits becomes a natural part of the learning process. Instead, children experience that the teacher often gives a commendable and less precise feedback, which is to a small extent a learning support, regardless of the quality of the student’s work. At that time, perhaps the student is already at a lower level in the learning process than one should be, and important observation that the student needs guidance and professional support has not been detected or grasped, without the teacher being charged for it, as this is one of the pedagogical methods used and approved in teaching in Norway today. With the knowledge that already exists for what doesn't work, it's hopefully gradually become a major political will to take in knowledge of what works in school, and as soon as possible. The Progress Party believes that early efforts at childhood are already vital for the students to have the best and the best possible learning outcomes and has also many times in the past put the spotlight on promoting more good proposals that could improve the results and provide better-organised school education. Several good proposals will come from the Progress Party in connection with St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line. I expect that we will get a thorough and good process on it and arrive at a good plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e662	We have a lot of good debates about school these days, and it's very fun, especially for us who sit in the committee and work on that very thing. We look forward to discussing the message Education Line, which is a follow-up to both of the issues we are discussing here in the Chamber today. That's where the big lines are going to be added. It is my wish that in this hall we must never stop having a continuous focus on the quality of education. Then it's like the Council of State said, that we're grasping the things we don't see work. It becomes a consequence that it is our job to take responsibility when we see that something is not working. I also agree with the Council of State that a great effort is being made in Norwegian school. There's a lot of good employees, there's a lot of people working well and systematically, and there's a lot of people going out of school happy. At the same time, I have experience – not a good experience, and it is not a good experience – that it is not always the concrete knowledge that makes one successful in the school of individual municipalities. Is that what we believe we're good at, we're good at? I have had the great pleasure of being a rapporteur in a municipality. Then you get close to school, then you get close to the students, and you have a lot of focus on the knowledge and opportunities of the children. It's really exciting. But I also felt that we were sitting and thinking and thinking – without having any specific feedback. That is why it is great that concrete and systematic follow-up is put on the agenda today. In my municipality we used two grips completely systematically. One was the results of the national tests, which we broke down as far as we could without going beyond integrity and privacy. The second was student studies. We experienced two things. First of all, we confirmed what we did well, and then we could do more of that. But we also had some frightening experiences. In concrete terms, we had a community in the municipality that had got a new school – a lot of boast and great commitment among parents and teachers. But when the student survey came, it turned out that it was the school where the students experienced the most insecurity and bullying. That was a big surprise for all of us. We didn't have the slightest idea. However, we used the school as an example of how it should be done. After this experience, we decided that this had to be done systematically — student surveys systematically, connecting parents systematically, and looking it up against the results of national tests. We experienced a fantastic lift around this school, because that shouldn't be the next time, and that wasn't the next time. Then suddenly they were on top when it came to student satisfaction and security by going to school. We experienced that other schools, which we thought were among the best in the municipality, were not at all among the best in the municipality when we broke down the results of national tests. I tell you this for – almost – being a witness to the truth that systematic testing, systematic evaluation and concrete use of it really are a good help. When we talk here from the pulpit about equal follow-up, it moves a little bit inside of me, because I know that if we had run the same follow-up in these schools, we wouldn't have achieved the results we did, given the knowledge we got. But by having individual follow-up we could give equal opportunity, so that the students could go out and experience mastering, be ready for a course of education that they felt they could tackle, and make good choices. Finally, just a small comment on the use of the words of the Council of State, which speaks of schools as ‘hanging out’. Yes, some people always abuse statistics and numbers. I think it's important that we, as politicians, talk about giving schools an opportunity to address the challenges they have. There's no one hanging out, but there's someone who actually gets help looking at the things that don't work. It creates opportunities, it can create commitment, and it can create security, both for students, teachers and parents, that this is a school that will do the best for the children and that will give them the opportunity for mastering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e678	Svein Harberg made an article that, in my opinion, was quite distinct from Aspaker's interpellation and articles. I really appreciate that. It was a post that had a positive and offensive approach. I suspect that this is because Harberg himself has been a rapporteur, he has been a school owner. Then a frequent approach, fortunately, to this challenge. Norwegian school is progressing, and we need to be careful to look systematically for the poor evaluations, because the picture is more complex and diverse. This is because it is wrong – we are going well, also in many evaluations, for example. related to maturity, creativity, relationship skills and well-being. Secondly, it is so counterproductive every day to tell teachers, students and school owners – such as the municipality and county council – that this does not work, you do too bad a job. There are actually some teachers who call this bullying. But Norwegian school debate is also progressing, both politically and professionally. Many have improved, not least because we are now approaching the field in a slightly more exciting and open way. From this point of view, a lot of new, good policy is being developed right now – I think the whole committee actually agrees with that. There's a professional political consensus behind a lot of what's going on. The overall grip is now adjusting and processing the Knowledge Lift. It is very good to see that the Right is also progressing and to a large extent is involved in what is now happening, among other things. by regretting that the right-hand side re-closed all approaches to freedom of choice in high school, that the narrow theory focus is being disbanded. Experience and practical skills are now being raised up and up in a much more offensive way than was the case only a few years ago. Not least the drop-off debate is part of giving this positive turnaround and the opening-up of the debate, which we so much need. But it's still creeping a little bit. This with black paint, under-estimated, is mentioned. We should be a little careful to draw rapid conclusions from the fact that a municipality lacks routines, programmes and plans – for all things, it should be in place when we ask for it to be in place, but it is not automatically a sure sign that there is a crisis out there, just because the routine and the plan are missing. Let's approach it a little bit more transparently. I think the Council of State in its contribution told us in a very good way what an oversight is supposed to be. For just overseeing, we discover that something is missing, and at the same time, it gives a genuine opportunity to start reflecting together — first, to get it formal in place, but not least to get a good practice in place. And then it's important, to all intents and purposes, that the school owner gets closer in there, as it's being said in KS circles these days. Honor be the people of local government and county that enter the network, print out these data that lie there, take them in purses and go into the municipal government hall and county hall and really start discussing school. But if that discussion is to be good, the basis for the political discussion must be something far more than just prints of the nature of the grades that students have received on any such tests. SV is not afraid of such prints, but the point is that there is so limited information in that type of print. And when politicians who are basically not very good in the field only get that kind of information, we see in practice that there can be quite a lot of bad debates about what to actually do to process the school and make it better. So I want to come back to something that I praised right a minute ago, that is, this by putting more focus on the profession. However, some of that play reminds me a little of our own experience in high school, when we had the classroom too full, where we were sitting in the gym, where parents and students were called up, and then we went out flocking and got clear all of us about who had the nicest students and could take the most difficult course, and down, so that we really got ranked. If we're concerned about not reproducating social differences, we have to be very careful so that we don't now get a pendulum swing back, where we make professional science the simple, low-resistance road towards a diploma. We reduce non-response, but in that way we can also contribute to the reproduction of social differences to an even greater extent than today, and we can help get out students who don't want to survive in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e699	There has been a strong focus in recent years on student outcomes in Norwegian schools, and there has been a major reformist among the many government councils. I am pleased that we now have a government that lowers its shoulders a little as regards the introduction of new reforms, but that is trying to correct and adjust what has been made wrong in the past. It's important to focus on school and knowledge. Knowledge is despite all the key to higher education and the possibility of future value creation. What has been a little sad, however, is that the intense focus on theoretical knowledge, among other things. Under the promise of knowledge, and partly under Reform 94, we have supported a number of students on the way. Reform 94 provided training rights for all, but it also led to more theoretisation of, among other things. the professions. It is well and good, but with the introduction of the Knowledge Lift this was further reinforced. It is therefore a bit funny that the Right, who, with his minister of knowledge, went through the promise of knowledge, is now concerned about those who fall through the school they have taken initiative in, and wonder if we are doing well enough adapted training. It is not national tests in themselves that improve Norwegian schooling. It is screening tests and individual results that enable the individual teacher to provide adapted training for the individual student. The centre party is concerned with good theoretical knowledge and supports early efforts for reading, writing, etc., but we are also concerned about having adapted training for those who are more practical. These students aren't just doing well in primary school today. So this isn't just about high school, which Right is talking about, but it's definitely also about primary school. Therefore, it is now important to adjust the course in line with the daily experience in Norwegian classrooms, and close gaps in the reform put on the rails. The most important thing to ensure students’ right to adapted training is, as the interpellant points to, good management — good management from both the school owner, the principal and the individual teacher. However, it is in the individual classrooms that the teaching takes place, and I am therefore very pleased that the government will start new teacher training in the autumn, where a far greater emphasis is placed on pupil knowledge and pedagogics. Different methods, early efforts and good student skills are very important to address the challenges for each student early. Then we also have to look at what changes we have to make in curriculums, in exams, etc., so that we give the students the chance to show their skills in a good and fair way. I am therefore looking forward to the treatment of the major education message, which will probably come back to some of the issues that the interpellant is raising here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e723	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a broad and exciting theme. That is why this debate is also getting a little bit jumpy as to where a port is on the part of the parties. But I think we have the basis in common, that our single school should give all students equal opportunities to gain knowledge of basic skills. This implies that all students are entitled to appropriate training under the Training Act, irrespective of where they live. And then we could actually have finished the discussion, but it goes a little bit further than that. Because I think it's a problem that the term 'adapted training' often becomes more a wish and a honor than what you can fill with real content. Many of the measures proposed at school are often justified by the need to adapt training, without necessarily providing technical arguments to this effect. It may also be linked – as we were made aware in a seminar on which the Committee was – to the fact that adapted training is both a purpose, a principle and an instrument – all at once – and on which one probably would have gone into a task if one were to try to argue for it. And then we have a big challenge in front of us. Now we've once again been in a discussion about openness or non-transparency about national tests. I want to give a little kick to my old colleagues in the government parties: we cannot strand all the discussions that we believe the solution is in full openness or closedness. I think it's more varied than that, and I think the debate strands on the wrong basis. When the committee had the seminar together with the Research Council, we had some challenges in terms of how adapted training is implemented in the ordinary course of training. They pointed out that the big differences were between schools and between teachers at school. Then it was particularly related to class management, the structure that the teaching followed, the relationship with the students, the professional competence and not least the professional commitment. It is difficult to give a clear response to what provides the most appropriate training. But educational research cautions us against perhaps now more using methods that leave students to themselves, and that then it is the most vulnerable students that fall through. We have talked both in the previous period and in this period about the importance of early action. If we look at the numbers, we see that we can't do that. We have at least special education at the earliest stages, but when we get to high school, it increases. Then I don't think that increasing the number of theory hours is the way to go, maybe especially when we see that among the most vulnerable students who have extra needs, we find 70 pst. Guys. It tells me something about that we've made a school run where there's quite a number of people who don't get to develop their skills. In that case, I am thinking in particular of practical skills that the students possess — often they have resources in them and can be unique. We probably know even from school the experience that the teacher is important. I agree with the Council of State that a mentoring system is important. The problem is that it should be integrated into an already full everyday life. The Christian People's Party wants a mandatory mentoring system that reduces the reading obligations of the first year, so that you get it put into a system that gives you a good start into this. The interpellant also referred to the time range setting. I'll finally say a little bit about the teacher's many roles. We must not imagine that school is just a small island, without connection to what is actually happening around society. The school reflects all that our society has from challenges. That means that teachers today have gained an incredible number of more roles than they might have had before. A child's need for adult contact, one to talk to, one that sees, does not stop outside the school door. Teachers have been given the task of caring for some of the things that perhaps society has previously handled. That's why I think to be able to get to this and get to a more customized training that is aimed at the individual student, we need the homes and families on the team – just like a heart attack in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e740	This is a very interesting debate, and we're not going to finish this today, I'm sure of that. One thing is to discuss various concrete measures, and perhaps also personal experience, another thing is to discuss the very basis for having a debate like this, and the basis for decisions that need to be taken around the many large and small municipalities in Norway, which are the school owners. I am absolutely convinced that the Council of State – although she may not have formulated it the way I would have done it – was concerned with the problem: what do we do with the small municipalities in Norway that do not have the skills, do not have the resources to be good enough school owners? And the Council of State said, how are we going to be able to help these municipalities? It is possible that the problem is so great that the solution lies simply in larger municipalities, because when you look at the requirements for competence in a number of areas – it goes beyond this debate, of course – it is quite obvious to everyone who wants to see that the very smallest municipalities are going to fall short, anyway. If they are to be helped so much by the state that they are in practice given a state overarching of the small municipalities, the municipality of Norway has been given a great service to bear. The Council of State began by saying that she had been a finance minister and had been in contact with a number of international delegations that were so fascinated by Norwegian success. I was then almost told to think back on former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, who had the slogan ‘It’s typical Norwegian to be good’. I think it's a terrible nauseating slogan. It's so self-scrupulous. Of course, it's always nice to hear that, but it's probably more typical of Norwegian to think that we're so very good. So we have the world's most expensive school. That's great, because the world's richest country can afford to stay with the world's most expensive school. It should actually be quite natural to expect that on that basis we could get the world's best school. But we don't have that, although many in Norway thought for a long time, probably. I don't want to tear up the parties on the Stortinget that opposed Norway's participation in international trials. We didn't need to do that, they obviously thought. It was only when we got the results of the international tests on the table that it went up for Norwegian school politicians and maybe also for the public that we were not as good as we thought. Therefore, it is quite clear that testing and testing, even though some consider it to be negative, is a very necessary tool for getting results on the table, results that provide a basis for decision-making to take action to improve. If you want to be able to improve, you have to first know where you stand. Then it cannot be the way Aksel Hagen said, that some people see it as focusing on results and making demands like bullying. That is the opposite – not to make demands, not to focus on results – which is the worst of all. If we get such a culture in school that it becomes dangerous to talk about how to do it, then we have a big problem in Norwegian school. Several of us in this debate have attended the seminar we held at the Research Council from the Committee, a particularly interesting seminar. I believe that some of the results presented by the researchers must have been a bit depressing to hear from the government parties' representatives. So it's not like research documents what you often think, from a political point of view. The point for us in the Right is at least mapping, results, transparency, expectations and demands. This may be obvious from the school owner, if the school owner is interested in and competent to take this responsibility seriously. I remember very well that I for approx. 10 years ago, as a school politician on behalf of the Right, repeatedly put forward proposals in the Bergen City Council to submit an annual quality report to the Bergen Schools. The Red-Green City Council said no again and again – not even a quality report, so that we could have an annual debate on the quality of the Bergen School, they wanted to attend. It first came into place with a civil council. That's why I was very happy to hear Anna Ljunggren's clear views on why it's important that a school owner in a municipality has a clear strategy and is willing to discuss quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e754	I would like to thank you for a reflected debate, even though someone was tempted to start the debate on the education line today – because we have been far inside that debate as well. I feel that we have had a broad focus here, but I want to say that today I also feel that the Council of State has moved. She has a much more nuanced mention of the importance of national tests, how they can actually play a significant and important role in raising quality and focusing on student performance in school and what it means. It was the representative Aksel Hagen who actually let the cat out of the bag in this debate. He fell here to old, classic SV rhetoric. So it's no use being good at creativity and well-being, etc., if you can't read and write – the basic skills. I actually thought we were done in this room having a debate where we put this up against each other. You actually have to master both of them. Then it doesn't help to settle down that we do it very well on democracy and well-being and all that, if one in five Norwegian students still leave primary school and cannot read and write properly, are unable to complete secondary education, are unable to get into the labour market, and are unable to master adult life. There is no contrast between the post by the representative of Svein Harberg and my post. We're both concerned that we need to know and know a lot about the school in order to be able to help the school out, whether we're talking about single schools or we're talking about whole municipalities that have a more systemic problem because you can't get out of the swamp that other municipalities with a different kind of approach thing. This increase has decided that Norwegian students are entitled to adapted training. Then we can't settle down here in the hall with the differences that we're now seeing the contours of out in the kingdom. The following municipalities guarantee children the possibility of social mobility, while in other municipalities the children are given the background of their parents and their interest in the schooling of their children. We are then failing with one of the main aims of the Knowledge Promise, that different children, regardless of their starting point, should be given the same opportunities to realize their abilities and talents. In addition to poor basic skills, the Social Democratic School of Unity failed in particular. I would like to end by saying that if the Minister's own party is serious about his slogan 'Various People. Equal opportunities’, the Council of State needs to take the school owner challenge much more seriously in order to avoid the development of School Norway into a Difference Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e769	Part of this debate has been marked by the fact that the Committee has had a seminar – and the only one that has not participated in that seminar, I am. But as the debate progressed, I have understood what lecturers were there, and I know well the research the committee has been introduced to. Then it's not so strange that there's going to be a bit of a jumping debate, but it also gives a picture of what the different parties care about, and how to approach the school debate. The fact that the representative Aspaker gets hurt because of Aksel Hagen's contribution is, I think, due to the following: he allowed himself to stress that the theory that we see in both professional and secondary education has a significant responsibility for the Right and Right knowledge policy. Now we see that the whole discussion about non-response is just about how to make education relevant at high school and for the professions. We're going to get back to that in a lot of ways. The other thing that needs to be addressed is the discussion that it would prevent learning from focusing on having a good learning environment, or that this is not related. That discussion has expired. We should be glad that there is a high level of well-being in Norwegian school, which is a good starting point for us to get better professional results as well. But everyone knows, at all workplaces, that if it's a good environment and everyone gets added to the good side, is seen as human beings and is appreciated, it's a better job, and you produce more as well. So now let's stop saying that one is for a learning school and the other is for a school that focuses on social skills. This is connected, we live in a modern world. Then I think the post to Svein Harberg is very interesting considering that we do not want this debate to take place at Stortinget, but close to the job done around in School-Norway. Then it is not the tests that are the point, if they are not used for anything and are used sensibly. The job must be done throughout the year between the results of the national tests — it is crucial to be able to change. I'm afraid that many people have that attitude towards testing, whether it's national tests, or other types of tests – the screening tests – that yes, now it's about getting it mapped. And then we've mapped it, and then we don't do anything more about it. Those who have problems at school don't have to be told on their ears different tests. They need a teacher, resources and help and support to actually improve between all the tests. [[The President clubs.]] I have a lot on my mind, President, but I realize my time is up for this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e784	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e798	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e809	The contractual pension scheme was established as early as 1988. Then there was a major reform, which ensured that workers wanted to leave the labour market before the age limit was reached, an additional pension scheme. The AFP scheme was fought by the Norwegian trade union movement, and it is hardly by chance that the scheme saw the day’s light when the jap season was over, at the beginning of the Norwegian banking crisis, the economic downturn and the sharp increase in unemployment. The fact that many workers could end their working day at the age of 62 also helped to open up the working life of many young people who would otherwise have met closed doors. The situation in Norwegian working life 22 years later, when the AFP scheme for the private sector is now to be adapted to our new pension system, is a completely different one. Nevertheless, it has certain similarities with what we experienced at the end of the 1980s. The difference is that, despite increasing unemployment right now, we will need all the labour available to us to ensure well-being and to meet the needs of the labour market in the future. Therefore, the new AFP scheme supports whether a pension scheme that sponsors them is longer in work, i.e. those who do not take advantage of the possibility to retire at the age of 62. This time, too, social partners have negotiated a pension agreement adapted to new times and challenges. The scheme will apply from 2011 and is characterised by an increase in the AFP in the case of deferred withdrawals between 62 and 70 years. The AFP is paid out of life, while workers between 62 and 67 years of age taking out a pension receive a higher amount up to the age of 67 than a steady payout profile would have promised. The AFP must be able to be freely combined with labour income – i.e. no curtailment. The requirement to receive a pension is that the employee is employed in an enterprise included in the contract and that he has been employed in such an enterprise for at least seven of the last nine years. The state pays 1/3 of the pension to employers 2/3. A common fund shall ensure employers' future obligations. Employees taking out the AFP after 2011 receive benefits in line with the new scheme. Workers born in the years 1944 to 1947 could gradually phase into the new scheme. So those who were born in 1948 will be the first year coal that can use the new AFP scheme in full. All parties, except the Advance Party, support the proposal for a common AFP scheme for all tariff areas in the private sector. In addition, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, expresses its recognition of the social partners and underlines the importance of the tripartite cooperation underpinning the AFP scheme. A contractual pension — it lies in the name — is a negotiated pension scheme, paid by the social partners now as before, with State contributions. This means that enterprises and workers outside the LO, YS, NHO area, Specter or the financial industry are not connected to the AFP scheme. They have also not paid a single penny for it. AFP is one of the main benefits organised workers and enterprises have set up for their members. The party of progress considers this to be unfair. In their opinion, the pension scheme negotiated and actually paid by the social security organisations shall apply to all. This is what free passengers do — those who have never been interested in providing to the community, those who want to forge for themselves, but who like to benefit from the efforts of others. In this way, the Progress Party is more like itself when a campaign is over and they no longer try to impress organised workers and businesses. I hope everyone will now notice that the law we adopt today will be lifted if the Progress Party against presumptuousness would have government power here to land. Then we'll get a minimum pension for everyone, with private pension schemes for the better-qualified who can pay for the highest pensions. This is the progressive party society at its worst – or perhaps the best, as you can see it. The party of progress is more concerned about the unorganised than about the organized, and that is to no surprise. The surprising thing is the argument. Indeed, the party claiming that the AFP scheme is in fact the reason why many employers refuse their employees a collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e835	The next speaker is Robert Eriksson, who has a speaking time of up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e838	Today, we are dealing with a matter that is an important follow-up to wage-fixing in 2008. Much of the debate was really in public space during the payroll, but, as I said, we are dealing with the legislation itself today to get this in place. The intention – which was also the subject of the case rapporteur when the AFP was established – was to give those who were worn out, who had been worn out and who had been in the labour market for a long time, a worthy exit from work, as an alternative to disability. This was fought through the social partners, the LO and the employee organisations, at the end of the 1980s and at the beginning of the 1990s. The new AFP scheme, which we see as being put in place today through the new wage negotiations and as an adaptation to the new pension system – of which the Progress Party has been a strong opponent – is a sharp contrast. Here everyone who has a collective agreement is given an early retirement scheme that is subsidised by the state. It is true, as the case-rapporteur says, that this will lead to the best outcome for those who are most at work. So the traditional wearer will not benefit from the new scheme. Why won't he enjoy it? This applies in particular to those who are low-paid, who have below average income or who simply have an average wage for industrial workers. Assuming an industrial worker who starts working when he is 22 years old and is worn out when he is 62 years old, he will most likely have earned too little for his retirement stock in the new system, in the AFP system, which will make it almost impossible for him, or less profitable – the account is not big enough – to get rid of the AFP. This is one of the major objections and criticisms of the Progress Party regarding the new system. We do not think that the problem is being dealt with as a point. 1st@item: inlistbox A pension scheme is provided for only by collective agreements and the scheme is subsidized by the State. I am pleased to note that it is not just the Progress Party which has discovered this injustice and which is strongly critical of this discrimination in the welfare system. YS, NHO, HSH and the academics share this view and believe that the State contribution should also be given to others. With today's new system, all earn a pension based on the number of years you have spent in the world of work and on income from year to year. So every year counts, based on income, while those with the AFP scheme get – from they start working and until they are 62 years old – an additional pension of 0.314 pst. One-third of this, i.e. 0,105 pst., is financed/subsidized by the State. Why, then, is it true that the Storting adopts differences in the service system for, for example, Kari and Trine, both born in 1963, who have the same education and who have the same jobs, but in different companies? The only difference is that one company has a collective agreement, and the other does not. I think that general welfare arrangements should be adopted in this house, and not through tariff arrangements, and the arrangements must be the same for everyone. This injustice will bring the Party of Advancement to life. That is why we are also proud that we have our own proposal on equal treatment for all pensioners. I must also say that I am quite shaken when I hear the case rapporteur almost with free interpretation tell what is progress party policy. First of all, he cannot have at all got what is progress party policy; he comes with almost free dictatorship and vision. But what shocks me the most is that he says from this pulpit that the Progress Party runs the errand of free passengers, the honor of those who do not provide to the community. What about the 700,000 workers in Norway who every day go to work, pay their taxes, have the same income as one who works in a company with a collective agreement, and pay just as much in taxes? What are the attitudes of the Workers' Party towards these workers, when they are called free passengers and they say that they are not part of the community – when they pay both their taxes and their taxes through the same regime? It says something about the views expressed by the rapporteur here, the attitudes which, in any case, the Progress Party is very far from, the attitudes which we believe are highly discriminatory, and which only confirm the discrimination that is taking place in this matter. I hope and believe that the case rapporteur said the error in his post, but since he was so clearly aware of it, he obviously did not miss out so much. If we look at the new arrangement, who is the one who loses the most on it? Well, there are many highly educated women who in many ways follow the ideology and intention that the Center Party has foreshadowed, namely that they live or stay in the districts and start their own small job, in the private sector, with perhaps five to six employees. It's not a collective agreement company. You do not then have access to the additional pension benefit. How can the Central Party and the SV join in facilitating a pension system and a system that punishes women and men who choose to practise the policies these parties are prejudicial to, namely, creating jobs out in District Norway? It's at least completely incomprehensible to me, even when we in a fresh analysis that Fafo did just before Christmas, see that women come out worse than men all the time. 44 pst. by men working in an enterprise with AFP, against only 37 pst. by the women. As I said, the Progress Party is committed to ensuring good welfare arrangements, good general welfare arrangements, and that it is equal for all. That is why I hope and believe – if you want to predict a few years in the future – that this will have sustainability in the future, but then you will be totally dependent on setting up the same rate of pension benefit. Because that's what we're talking about here, the new system for everyone where the state doesn't discriminate people based on what type of work you work on. There I think that both the academics, YS and HSH have produced good and important arguments that I would have liked the Stortinget and the Committee to have put much more emphasis on than they have done. I choose to stop there and would like to include the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote. We also want to go against the law as it is in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e864	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e867	The right feels committed to the pension settlement and it is worth bearing in mind why these changes in the AFP scheme come. They come because a broad majority of the Storting saw that the pension system as it was, was not sustainable, and had to be changed, both to ensure that it became sustainable through generations, and to ensure that it would pay off longer in work. There are some fundamental considerations of the AFP system that the Right does not hide that we also have. For example, it is in principle worrying that the social partners make arrangements that apply to their own, but then receive support from the common fund to which we all pay. It's basically thoughtful. It is also fundamentally worrying that the AFP has grown from being a scheme that was supposed to help the laborers, to being a system that today embraces far, far more. However, the right does not seem to be the right solution for extending the AFP scheme to more than one. As I said, we feel obliged by the pension settlement. That's why we don't have any additional comments, but we're essentially behind the majority's comments on this matter, and we're also going to support it. It is important for the purpose of the pension scheme. It is important because the new AFP scheme outlined here makes it easier for more people to work. And it does so without jeopardising the ability of the workers to leave the labour market, even though it will pay off for them to be in work a little longer. Therefore, the right is behind the majority comments and has nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e876	A contractual pension is a negotiated right. It is important for many worn-out workers, and SV has been a strong defender of contractual pension, both in the private and public sectors. It is that the issue we are dealing with today is also a result not only of pension settlement in the Stortinget, but also of a renewed agreement between the social partners and the state. I think it's worth noting that there's one party in this room that doesn't respect that kind of agreement. It is a fundamental principle for SV that we respect that kind of agreement, and I think employees should notice that the Progress Party does not have that kind of respect. My approach to this is not that I don't see that there may be any problems in these systems that are being adopted as well. But the experience, that is, the story, I think we have to have it with us. My claim is that it is to a large extent the trade union movement that has civilised this country. The trade union movement has fought through its struggle, along with political parties, rights that have gradually been made law by decision in this house. But it's not that all social rights in this country have become here first, and that everyone has got the rights at the same time. No, it has been that the trade union movement has fought many times for such rights for itself and its members, who have benefited many more. I don't ignore the fact that there may be changes here in the future. There are many areas in which we've done this. An example that we've been working on a lot lately is equality between turns and shifts. There has been such a scheme, and on which we have gradually made changes, so that the differences that lay there, between different groups of workers, are now made a right for all. From this point of view, I think of all the rights struggles that the trade union movement is conducting, as an important starting point for fighting further for increased rights for everyone. But I still want to stress the solidarity and the job that the trade union movement is doing, and the importance of its membership in order to stand behind and be strong forces for these changes that many people need. That's why it's incredibly important to build it up. We have ended up with two slightly different arrangements for the AFP in the private and public sectors. But what we are dealing with now, for the private sector, is essentially based on the principles of the pension agreement. What is a major advantage of this AFP solution is that you can combine the extraction of AFP with still full or partial work. That makes it possible to combine work and retirement in a way that I'm pretty sure many people will enjoy, and many more people can stand and stand in the workplace than if you hadn't had that opportunity. So it's also the way that the model we put on is a model of impact. It means that there is an advantage for many of those who have earned little, and who get this as a mark on their popular reputation, and by it has opportunities to leave when they need it. There's a broad majority behind this. There is a negotiated agreement between the social partners and the state. SV is very happy that a contractual pension, and that we also get the legal basis for it, will make it possible for people to understand what kind of pension options they have in the future. I think that might be a little bit unclear to many people now in these transition phases of new and old retirement. We probably have to live that uncertainty for a while because there are many transitional arrangements for different schemes for many workers. That's the way it is, but the main principle that you should be able to take out retirement early and combine it with work is a scheme that I think will benefit a lot, and that will make more people work a little bit. This is good both for the individual and for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e895	The fact that there is a broad majority behind the new law on state allowances for workers who take out contractual pensions in the private sector has been a key issue for the Centre Party. I would also like to commend the social partners for negotiating a new AFP scheme in the extension of the pension reform. Tripartite cooperation is an important pillar of the welfare society and provides stable and sustainable conditions for working life. It is also important to point out that this is a right employee, not an obligation to leave. The age of life in Norway is increasing. We're keeping us fresher and more and more alive. It's such a truth that we're also working longer. This is why it is important to facilitate and encourage workers to be able to work longer. The centre party is therefore pleased that it is now possible to combine the AFP with work, and that if an off-take, there is a possibility of getting a higher pension. In some respects, it is possible to understand the arguments of the minority. It is particularly true that promises do not cover everyone in the private sector. For the Central Party, it has been one of several main concerns to protect the interests of low-paid women and self-employed women. It applies both in this case and in the case of the pension reform. As you know, this law is based on tripartite cooperation between the state, employers and employees and maintains agreement between the social partners. In the long term, therefore, the goal must be to get one with the rest in the private sector, but that means that one is both involved and able to take out pensions in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e904	The reform of the pension system has been ongoing since 2001, when the government of Stoltenberg I set up the Pension Commission. In 2005 and 2007, the Stortinget submitted a broad agreement on a pension reform. In May last year, new rules on old age pensions were passed. Some adaptations to the rest of the legislation of the People's Party were adopted in December. Only the Progress Party is now outside the conciliation. I am pleased that a broad majority is united in a matter of great importance to so many, and which has such a long-term perspective. The pension reform has given us a more sustainable pension system, which helps secure future pensions. The new old-age pension in social security is the support pillar of the new pension scheme. With a new AFP in the private sector, a new important piece falls into place. The agreement entered into in the wage settlement in 2008 also meant that the social partners also adhered to the principles of the pension reform in a national settlement. The challenges facing the pension system due to marked ageing of the population are common to very many countries. We are therefore not alone in implementing a pension reform, but far from all have implemented such a comprehensive reform without strikes and labour conflicts. The Norwegian model of cooperation and joint dialogue between employee organisations, employers’ organisations and authorities is an important reason for Norway’s success in achieving good and sensible welfare solutions. Like the Committee, I would therefore like to commend the social partners for having agreed on a new AFP scheme, which supports the principles of the pension reform and which is in line with the 2007 Stockholm pension settlement. Pension reform helps to secure the welfare state of the future by making work more profitable. The proposal for a new AFP in the private sector means, unlike the current system, that the annual pension will increase by working longer than 62 years. Since the new scheme stimulates work, it will help to strengthen the sustainability of the pension system. The new AFP can be freely combined with labour income without shortening the pension. This facilitates a flexible transition from work to retirement. New AFPs are based on the same principles as new old-age pensions in social security and are an important contribution to an overall pension scheme. I am therefore very pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal for a new AFP Bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e915	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e919	In 1997, the so-called Igland letter came out, which was evaluated among others. withdrawing State aid to the AFP scheme. It was a payroll issue, but it was rejected, and the outcome of the negotiations was what we see today. If we take two people with income of NOK 320,000: one works in a company with a collective agreement, the other works in an enterprise without a collective agreement. Does the Council of State think it makes sense to subsidise the employee of a collective agreement company, at NOK 13 000 more a year in an annual retirement pension because they receive an additional pension? Is that not discrimination in the welfare system we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e926	As I underlined in my post, the Government has seen that the main success of our welfare model is based on the cooperation of the parties in the Norwegian welfare model, between the authorities, the employer and the employee. That is why we also believe that this system, which is now being seen to be consolidated by the AFP system, negotiated by the social partners, is the best model to serve the welfare development. That is why we want to continue to have a system that has this advantage – as you might say – that is negotiated by the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e931	Then I am tempted to ask a follow-up question. I note, of course, that it is the Government's obvious position that cooperation between the parties should be based on the creation of welfare arrangements. Is it then to be understood that it is subordinate to the Council of State to have the same welfare arrangements for those who work in enterprises that are outside the framework of party cooperation, i.e. about 700,000 employees in Norway? Does she think it is entirely right that we have discrimination and discrimination in welfare systems? Would it also be right for the Council of State to go counter-clockwise and accept discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e938	Thus, as to whether each employee is covered by an AFP scheme, it is essential to be a member of an organised working life. The government wants to stimulate increased participation in organised labour. This is also the background to seeing that you have this kind of benefits for those who are in an organized working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e946	The historical agreement on the new AFP scheme that the Government and social partners have come up with is good for Norway, and it is good for future pensioners. The new pension reform provides for a decent exit from the labour market for the labour force and for society to benefit from the value creation that the seniors will contribute to by continuing their work. We depend on that, because we live longer and longer in Norway, and because we will experience shortages of labour in the future. We're getting older, and we're living longer. The new pension scheme that is soon to be introduced takes it into account. At the same time, the government wants those who are tired and want to leave at 62 years of age to be guaranteed a good pension and a living income. The solution negotiated by the parties in cooperation with the Government is a good compromise. It ensures the consideration of the labourer, while at the same time building a pension system where it pays to work. It is not obvious that the new AFP scheme has come into place. The scheme is a genuine child of the long struggle of the labour movement for the rights of workers. The progress party is here today again alone, and as several others have said, they are running free of charge again. They show a lack of respect for tripartite cooperation and the traditions, methods and negotiated rights of the country's workers. The policy of the Progress Party is a blow to trade union movement. But it is nothing new that the Progress Party will weaken the trade movement. Since it took over in 2005, the government has fulfilled its commitments to workers to increase employment and to strengthen well-being. The first thing we did when we got into government was to reverse the brutal changes in the work environment law that were behind the right-hand side in the last period, which would weaken workers' rights and brutalize working life. In today's debate, it is important to remember that the Progress Party stands for and fights for very different values than the labour movement, and ordinary workers will lose a great deal of weight in the overall policy of the Progress Party. When the Progress Party later today as they want better rights to more, it is important to remember that their primary view of retirement, if implemented, would mean that everyone became the minimum pensioner in popular security and had to care for the rest himself. We remember all the results of LO's party questioning before the election. On LO's 41 questions, the right-hand side expressed the wish to increase the use of temporary employment, greatly increased access to overtime and resistance to collective bargaining. The party of progress was worst placed when it came to safeguarding the rights of workers. We will also find that in their party programme, where, for example: on page 7 it says that the Progress Party does not want country-wide collective agreements and that the formation of wages is to be carried out on a farm basis. There won't be equal pay, justice or security for everyone to be his own success smith. With such clear speech, the Progress Party also shows its true face in relation to the relationship to the trade movement, to the negotiated rights and to the collective system that is such a crucial part of the Norwegian model. Here again, they show that they do not respect precisely those who have made sure that we get so well on all statistics, that we have a good and regulated working life with high employment, a pension system that stimulates jobs and that takes care of those who can't anymore. But first of all, the Progress Party shows a lack of respect for the organized working life, and I think that is an incredible sin.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e974	I would say so that this seems to me to be a very important debate, because it is extremely clarifying in its form and content. It identifies a fundamental distinction between the right and the centre-left side of Norwegian policy. Not least for those who still have to be unsure whether the Advance Party is a right party, the minority comment in the vote and the chairman's statement today are suitable for removing any doubts: the Advance Party is a right party, in its purest form. The comments of the Progress Party show no respect – as has already been said – for no gratitude, no understanding of the historical efforts of the Norwegian trade union movement through the negotiation of the AFP system, and the importance of this for the Norwegian labour force to have been able to lose dignity for a number of years at the age of 62. There is no understanding, or knowledge, that the AFP scheme has saved the population and community for expenses on disability and has contributed to more moderate wage settlement. On the contrary, it is a fact that the trade union movement has negotiated pension entitlements for its own members. It is an important principle that I respect, that it is voluntary to organise themselves in Norway. But here in this debate, this principle is being abused. We hear a touching concern for those who do not pay the quota and contribute to an organised working life, those who do not take responsibility for joint settlement, focusing on social responsibility, low-wage and equal pay profiles. And we read a line of reasoning that the social partners and the state have negotiated, are to be set aside because there can be some companies that are allegedly unable to afford to enter into collective agreements with their employees. The schemes are too expensive, it's claimed. Then the question is, where would the Norwegian society have stood if this, in itself, the old thinking on the right-hand side again had been put into effect in this room? If any legitimate demand from Norwegian workers for pay and social rights could be rejected without further delay that some business owners could not afford, where would our high-productive society be? Where would our relatively egalitarian society be? Where would the welfare state have been today if such a argument were to consistently trump all other considerations? From the Labour Party and the majority of the population we have talked and written a lot about the ‘Norwegian model’ in recent years. I know it's provoked many on the right hand side. But tripartite cooperation is an essential part of the Norwegian model, with a social-responsible trade movement like the crown jewel itself. It has helped to provide Norway with a unique combination of low unemployment, moderate price increases, high productivity and good wealth development for the wider community. Thinking that this will continue, while overstepping the trade union movement and overstepping the negotiated rights, can at best be called naive. What we are doing today is fulfilling the country's commitments in the private sector tripartite agreement to adapt the AFP to a new pension scheme. That has already been said, but I repeat: let there be no doubt that the vast majority of the major pension reform covers all Norwegian citizens. At the same time, it was absolutely necessary – and everyone in this room knows – to involve the trade union movement in the conversion of the AFP scheme so that it would not undermine the strong incentive offered by the pension reform to combine work and retirement from 62 years at the request of the individual. So this worked out. Again, a collective trade union movement showed social responsibility. We got a good solution. Those who have always stood on the outside of this historically important reform, which is basically about securing the future of the welfare state, are allowed to do what they want. We, who belong to the responsible parties, stand by concluded agreements. That's the way we stick to the Norwegian model and carry on the best in Norwegian tradition and in Norwegian social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e991	After hearing Mr. Eriksson's intervention at the beginning of the debate, it is certainly necessary to get some of the history behind today's AFP, contracted retirement, which saw the light of day over 20 years ago, and, as it warmed at that time, would be an arrangement for the poor. It was basically a system for the workers in the private sector. For what was the situation? Well, in the private sector, there was no other way of getting rid of a pension before 67 years of age than having a disability pension. So there were workers in Norway who had worked for 40, 45, and up to 50 years, and who have ended up in the last few years with unearned pensions — an unworthy system. And then we got the AFP. The age was gradually reduced to 62 years, which allowed forest workers, industrial workers, construction workers, cleaners and others to complete a long professional life in a dignified way. Several similar schemes were introduced in the public sector as well, and age was reduced to 62 years in both the private and public sectors. The AFP has been a targeted scheme. Many studies show that. Remember, too, that the scheme has been financed by employers and by employees in the sea, which actually gave up wage supplements in several private-sector wage settlements in order to participate in the sub-financing of the AFP. In addition, the State has contributed. All three parties have contributed. So it's a contractual arrangement. And it's entirely voluntary if someone wants to participate in the organized working life. Then we get a new pension reform from 2011, where the entire pension scheme changes. Today, one has first agreed to a pension up to 67 years of age, and then the old age pension enters the population. In the new system, thinking is going to be completely the opposite. Everyone in the public world can take out an old age pension from 62 years, and then the AFP comes in as well. It is therefore necessary to amend the legislation. That is what the Storting must do today, as a result of the agreement of the private sector parties in the wage settlement in 2008. Today's treatment is a very important piece in the pension puzzle game. Now we're going to have a new system. The State pays one third of the AFP costs and the employers two thirds. The Progress Party proposes that the State contribution to the scheme be extended to all pensioners. Then I really have to ask the question: what happens to those who work in companies without a collective agreement? If the state has to pay a third, who's going to pay the rest? Does the State then have to pay them in full – in the case of discrimination – or are the employers obliged to pay two-thirds to a scheme on which they are not initially involved because they are not organised in one of the employers' organisations? This is not a matter of concern, and it is not the first time we really see what the Progress Party thinks about pension issues. One says one thing and does something else in practice. So think, the Progress Party is against the new popular agenda that we get from 2011, where people can gradually descend or go all the way down at 62 years, get the AFP in addition and work as much as they want! It's the Progress Party against! The party of progress said before the last major elections that they were the trade unions' party. The Progress Party was sorry that the LO cooperated with certain parties, because the Progress Party was an equally good speaker for workers and trade unions. I said the jam was butter! It is in the name – and at least not in the benefit. Today, all the workers of the country, all the trade unions of the country, who tell what the Progress Party is proposing and voting for today, should be offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1006	When the Progress Party in this room says that the LO and the employee organisations take care of themselves and their own, you have a bad political memory. There is hardly a single employee’s right in this country that has not been fought by the LO and the other employee’s organisations. It is dangerous to work if you start to introduce those who choose not to be organized, those who do not choose to make sure that we have a working life that is inclusive. But the question is also, if it is, that we should go in to remove worked-up, negotiated rights, how to succeed in getting a new solidarity option or as a result a more inclusive working life and a lower sick leave. The trade union movement and the Labour Party have always fought for everyone through a strong labour-environment law, pension rights and a well-organised working life. Compulsory occupational retirement provision is a good example of the division of labour that the labour movement has had. The Joint Undertaking was in the forefront of tariff negotiations and made sure that their members in the place where they were organised could put in place such an agreement. Then there was a compulsory occupational pension scheme for all employees. When 700,000 people are outside, there are not 700,000 free passengers. Both the Government and the employee organisations welcome all of these 700,000 people into the AFP scheme and to be part of the organised working life. But instead of correcting the moral, daring index finger against the Government and employee organisations, perhaps the Progress Party should point that finger at the employers who make sure that the employees do not dare to organize themselves. Especially in the private service sector, many people have anonymous membership of trade unions because they are afraid of the consequences they may have by being open about being organised. If the Progress Party had been willing to use a little more energy and power on these unprofessional employers, everyone could benefit from a good contractual pension, so that we can get a better working life for everyone. It's not true when the Progress Party says we're only concerned with those who are organized. We provide good employee rights for everyone, but it must be that by contributing to a well-organised working life and being organised, you also get something extra left. It serves the trade, it serves business, and it serves the whole community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1015	You might wish you had the 15-minute post in the end after everything that has emerged in this debate. But let me go quickly through some of the misunderstandings. Firstly, the representative Sverre Myrli knows just as well as I do what the Progress Party did when we dealt with the pension reform. The Progress Party has never said not to have an early retirement scheme and not to have a flexible retirement plan at 62 years. It is also part of the Progress Party model, and Myrli knows it very well. In this case, the Progress Party just says that everyone will be allowed to leave when you are 62 years old and combine it with a job. But what we think is unfair is that the state subsidizes the retirement benefit to someone and that others don't get the same benefit rate. There is serious discrimination in the general welfare systems. When the representative of Kolberg reminds us that this has been fought by the trade union movement precisely in order for the workers to leave when they are 62 years old, I think with respect to report that the representative of Kolberg has not registered the consequences of his own policy. Many of the industrial or timber workers that Myrli makes in his contribution will have too little pension stock in the new old age pension or too little AFP account or too little in total to be able to retire when they are 62 years old if they are completely exhausted. No, they'd better work on it, or they'd have to work on disability. It's going to be the exact opposite of what the Workers' Party and the representative of Kolberg say. Then, too, the Progress Party has respect for the negotiated agreements. That's what we're saying. Those who have the AFP are going to get this benefit. However, the additional performance that the State operates and subsidizes must also benefit the others. And when we talk about free passengers, I get a little upset. I wonder what the majority definition in this room is for 'free passengers'. After all, it is the way – both in the past and in the new scheme – that all those in work and who are taxpayers pay into the AFP scheme, i.e. it finances through the tax bill. But it's 700,000 who don't get to enjoy it. It's going to be the same as everybody paying to drive a tram in Oslo, but only half is allowed to go with the trick. And it's probably not those who paid for the ticket, who are not allowed to get on, who are free passengers. It's at least at my discretion to put it completely on your head and take it out of its context, and it just shows how illogical it is. Finally, I think it's clarifying what the Council of State said, that the current government is only interested in creating a welfare policy for some and those who are trade unionists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1028	This draws in many ways to become an experience-rich day. First, we feel that the Progress Party criticises the fact that the AFP scheme – yes, the pension scheme itself – is based on the principle that rights are built up over time, and that those who withdraw the pension later than those who withdraw the pension earlier receive higher payments. This is quite alarming, because it is contrary to the insurance policy of the entire pension scheme. Then we experience that both the Advance Party and the Right believe that it is fundamentally worrying that the state provides its way to a negotiated system, that is, the tripartite cooperation that underpins many of our important social reforms. I therefore assume that the same parties are equally fundamentally concerned that the state is actually a party to the IA agreement, which is also a system that covers only the organized working life. In this matter, as in other matters as well, the Chairman of the Committee, Eriksson, has demonstrated his opposition to organised working life, knowing that it is free for everyone to join the AFP scheme and the organised working life. Instead, the party chooses to provide those who choose to stand outside, those who do not want to pay to the organised community. This is the special form of freedom of choice of the Advance Party. But let's take the game seriously. The party claims that the AFP scheme is in fact the reason why many employers refuse their employees a collective agreement because the AFP scheme is too expensive. In particular, this shall apply to small and medium-sized enterprises. Just – here it is that the dog is buried: it is too expensive to provide workers with a good pension scheme. The party of progress later only seems to argue for an additional pension scheme for all, but they understand, of course, that neither small nor large enterprises escape it, rather on the contrary and literally. That's why the Progress Party does what they always do with economic consequences: they turn their backs on and later on like nothing. But now, fortunately, it's the end of double communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1040	Robert Eriksson said in his last post that I know very well what the Progress Party stands for in these questions. No, I don't know that very well, because it's cool impossible to understand what the Progress Party thinks about pension issues. In the Pension Commission, which I had the pleasure of sitting in the sea, the representative of the Progress Party proposed a flat model – and it was a well-worked proposal; I disagreed with it, but the proposal was well-worked: everyone should have equal pensions from the population's security, sentence finals. It was, of course, also in the party programme of the Progress Party. But it didn't bother the Progress Party about here in the Stortinget when the Stortinget dealt with the changes in the age pension in the population's population, which is due to come into force from 2011. No, then all of a sudden the Progress Party thought that you should continue today's old age pension in popular poverty, but make some changes. The correctness shall be correct. But as a model, there was something quite different than the Advance Party had previously entered into. So it's not good to know what the Progress Party thinks about these questions. That is why today's proposals of the Progress Party are becoming remarkable. It's okay to disagree with the model that comes into force from 2011. But in any case, the AFP system must be adapted to the public’s fears if you are never against the new popular roots. So the Progress Party proposes, and it can't be anything but a freak of a proposal, that the state should pay the same supplement to all the employees, and that's one third of the cost of the AFP. I understand that Eriksson does not respond to what I challenged him on in my previous post: Who will pay the rest? It has been said not to the party of progress, because there is no answer to it. There are two solutions: either the individual has to pay it – it becomes extremely expensive – or the state has to pay it. Or the employers who are not part of the organised labour market must not be a member of any employer's organisation, be forced to pay the last two thirds to finance the AFP. It is quite unreasonable to put such a model in place at all. The Progress Party knows that. As usual, the pension policy of the Progress Party is not affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1049	Robert Eriksson has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1052	Just briefly to the representative Myrli. It might be a good idea to read the setting before making bombastic statements that this is the policy of the Advance Party. Our comments state that the share currently used by the State on the AFP must be ‘all’. We've taken into account the new system where today it's income times profit times the number of years divided by the split at the time of withdrawal – a model that Myrli knows well. The rate of return has to be increased for everyone, so that everyone gets the same benefit. That is what the Progress Party has proposed as regards the State contribution to the AFP. And then Myrli tries to construct it so that it's a two-thirds power that's lost. We haven't talked about it at all. We have respected that someone chooses to organize and someone chooses to stand outside, and that those who organize want to fund their own scheme. The Progress Party has also said that it is quite okay that they finance and pay for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1057	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1664]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1075	Norway is well advanced in research, development and treatment in the field of cancer. Institutions such as the Radium Hospital, Oslo Cancer Cluster and the Cancer Register have gained significant international recognition for their work and competences in research, development and cancer treatment. It is therefore very important that this environment of competence and this brand be strengthened and not least further developed, for the benefit of patients and society. Cancer is a disease that is experienced by too many people every year. Yesterday we could read that the World Health Organization fears that more than twice as many people will die of cancer in 2030 compared to today. This tells us something about the scale we're facing. The impact of cancer is enormous for the individual, but also for relatives, friends and family. With this as a backstop, it is necessary to pave the way further to ensure that Norway maintains and further develops the competences associated with treatment, relief and research in the field of cancer. Norway has all the prerequisites for being a very central player in the fight against cancer, including in an international context. In fact, the environment that has been built around the Radium Hospital is the only environment in Europe that has been brought up on the top 20 list of the best cancer competences in the world. Norway is a small country, but with many wise heads. It's a statement that says two heads think better than one. This is precisely an important element in the further development of cancer as a field of activity in Norway. Of course, bringing together the wise minds, the wise environments of competence, will be crucial to the impact of the Norwegian environment in the field of cancer. To put it simply, we must not, no, we cannot fragment that competence in this field in such a way as to lose valuable skills development, valuable exchanges of skills and the building up of a professional environment. So let me start with what will be my conclusion, namely that the three most important pillars of the Norwegian competence environment in the cancer area need to be established and strengthened. So it's the Radium Hospital, the Cancer Register and the Oslo Cancer Cluster, which are mutually dependent on each other's competences in order to optimise their own possibilities. This triangle of cancer must therefore be the very foundation of what is already an internationally recognised environment of competence. I fear that some of the processes of change we have in the Norwegian health system will be able to tear down what is becoming a national locomotive in the fight against cancer – and an international locomotive, in fact. As politicians, we must ensure that this does not happen. The cancer register plays a significant role in cancer research both in Norway and abroad, and it is essential that the register is closely linked to the clinical research communities. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2001–02, a unanimous Social Committee concluded that the Register of Cancer should be an independent institution in the Radium Hospital, with its own government and budget line on the State budget. Now we see again that the debate related to the Cancer Register is fading out. I think it is crucial that the Cancer Register is an independent institution, closely linked to both the Radium Hospital and the Oslo Cancer Cluster. The cancer register does – and has – an extremely important job linked to the relevant professional environments, and I am concerned that conversion will result in poorer structure and poorer interaction with the relevant parties. Challenges related to interaction with international and national research environments and the risk of inconsistency in data are some of the concerns I want to point out. The establishment of Oslo Cancer Cluster and its own basic research centre on stem cell research were two important institutions in the further development of the capacity building that we did in the cancer field. Oslo Cancer Cluster is a unique project, which, together with the Radium Hospital and the Cancer Register, constitutes a very special organisation of a competence environment that is becoming world leader in its field. Stem cell research is an area that must be expected to have a long-term perspective in terms of target achievement. It is therefore precisely important to establish long-term and good framework conditions for the stem cell centre in Norway. I would also like to stress that a stem cell centre is more than the building that is physically located, and refers to the need to develop and further develop knowledge in the field. I am of the definite opinion that in order to make the research environment of stem cells a developing and leading environment, it will be absolutely necessary for the Centre to be given the necessary resources both to acquire competence and to further develop the competence that already exists in Norwegian professional environments today. I am of the opinion that the bet on the stem cell centre has been under-prioritized financially by the sitting government. I find this very unfortunate and would therefore strongly encourage the Minister of Health to lift this up as a stake in the 2011 state budget. Radium hospital is much more than a building, just a hospital or a health facility. The Radium Hospital is a place where strong feelings are attached to too many people in Norway. The Radium Hospital is a place where many have been given their lives. The Radium Hospital is a place where many have taken a last farewell with some of their closest. The Radium Hospital is a place where there are gray firecrackers, and where the grief of losing someone you're happy with has its source. The Radium Hospital is something far more than a hospital. It's a national institution. The Radium Hospital is also a trademark both nationally and not least internationally. I record that the process associated with Oslo University Hospital once again forces a debate that I thought had been put to death by the Health Committee in the previous period when it stressed the importance of continuing the Radium Hospital as the incorporated and recognised brand name it is. It was therefore with great surprise that I saw how this was supposed to be done on the part of Health South-East, by ‘hiding away’ the name of the drafts of various information materials that I have been given to participate in. It is difficult to find a word that is parliamentaryly correct, but at the same time strong enough to describe what I think about it. At least it's very unfortunate that a brand like the Radium Hospital is being undermined that way, as it might seem that this is being done. I don't know any owner of a good brand in the whole world who does anything like that when you have a built-in brand, and even degrades the value of it. I would therefore strongly ask the Minister of Health to address this matter once more, in order to make an assessment of how the brand name Radium Hospital can be continued. And it doesn't just have to be continued, it has to be reinforced. It shall be the internal locomotive in the development of the cancer cluster together with the Cancer Register and Oslo Cancer Cluster. The health system is, and must be, under constant development. Of course, this is also the title of the Progress Party. However, it is also important, of course, that these processes of change should lead to a strengthening of professional environments, and it should not impair either valuable competence or internationally recognised brands. Unfortunately, the processes that are now in progress can lead to the opposite happening, is my fear. Unfortunately, if you undermine the Radium Hospital, Oslo Cancer Cluster, and the cancer registry's ability to further develop and create a locomotive in different aspects of cancer, you make sure that one of the few highly competent medical environments is confused and maybe disappears. This must be prevented, this must be governed politically. I look forward to hearing the answers of the Council of State on how she will ensure further development of the uniqueness created at Montebello and at the Radium Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1111	Let me first say that the representative Per Arne Olsen puts forward an important interpellation that is about cancer. It is an important topic because, as was also said, it affects many, and it affects more than the one that is ill, it affects the whole family. Therefore, it is important to ensure good cancer treatment and research, and this is also a high priority in the Government. We have followed up on the launch of the National Cancer Strategy in 2006, which facilitates a holistic, offensive and long-term follow-up of the cancer area. Key measures to enhance the quality of treatment provision include the centralisation of cancer surgery and national action programmes for different cancers developed by the Health Directorate. Medical and health research is, and should remain, a priority of the Government's research policy. This is underlined, inter alia, by: in the new Research Communication, Climate for Research, where health and health services are a priority area. We are working to ensure a continued good framework for medical and health research. It also applies to cancer research. We have many good treatment and research environments in the cancer area, including at Oslo University Hospital HF. As the interpellant refers to, the Radium Hospital, with the Institute for Cancer Research, has every year clearly ensured that the research results benefit cancer patients. In August 2009, the new research building was opened. It is closely related to the Radium Hospital, just to ensure contact between knowledge and clinical practice. Government policy will continue to support this top-class cancer research environment. The interpellant was concerned that today’s environment would be fragmented. When change processes happen, it's important that it helps to strengthen the professional environment, and that's what's meant here. An important objective of the combination of Health South and Health East — and later also the establishment of Oslo University Hospital — was for the region to become a centre of strength in medical research. At the same time, we need to see that there is a lot of research in the cancer field also in the other university hospitals. It is very important that the results of research benefit patients and society. An important tool to support this is innovation. Research-based innovation has a high potential and is therefore a field of action both nationally and internationally. The need to strengthen innovation in the health sector is clearly set on the agenda of the Government’s Innovation Communication and through joint efforts on innovation in health businesses, where the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Industry and Trade cooperate. I am aware that the cancer research community at Oslo University Hospital aims to commercialise the results of research and start companies that can spread this technology. Most famous are Photocure ASA and the establishment of Oslo Cancer Cluster. Oslo Cancer Cluster gained expert status in 2007 from Innovation Norway and the State company SIVA, with a funding of 5 million. kr per year. The Programme is established to strengthen and further develop the innovation activity of the most growth-intensive and internationally oriented business clusters in Norway. As the Minister of Knowledge replied in the interview of the representative Trine Skei Grande on 12 January, an innovation park will be set up at Ullern in Oslo. Research, business and education are to be linked by Oslo Cancer Cluster and Ullern Secondary School being built in close proximity to Oslo University Hospital, Radium Hospital. This is one of many exciting initiatives developed by the professional community itself. The task of the cancer registry is to identify the prevalence of cancer in Norway, to highlight changes over time and to carry out research and information. The registry has an important role to play in quality assurance of treatment, both for diagnosed cancer and in screening programmes for breast cancer and cervical cancer. In 2008, the Ministry of Health and Welfare established a project for the National Health Registry Project. The report of the project is being consulted, with a deadline of 22 March. A proposal to establish a national register of cardiac and masculinity is on the Health and Care Committee. The consultation on the national health register project and the examination by the Storting of the proposal to establish a cardiovascular registry will be an important basis for assessing the organisational anchoring of the central health records, including the Cancer Register. I assume that the peak competence established by the Cancer Register will be maintained and further developed. Cancer is a large and growing disease group. In this field, there are great opportunities to develop new and better methods of previous diagnosis and more effective treatment. Through the National Cancer Strategy, the Government has signalled that further focus on cancer research is a central response to the challenges in the field of cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1141	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to admit that I am basically looking for what the answer was in the post I just heard. It was a politically correct answer, but no answer to the two challenges I had – as far as I can understand. Let me start with what may be the most elementary, and which sounds elementary, but which is a very important factor that cannot be underestimated, namely the brand name Radium Hospital. I want to challenge the minister on that, because it is actually possible to be for development and process changes in the health care system, but at the same time be opposed to changing the brand name Radium Hospital. The Radium Hospital has great recognition in the international environment. The Norwegian Cancer Association is known from the brand name of the Radium Hospital in international circles, and it is also known for Norwegian residents and patients. I'm going to try to make a comparison that I guess the former Bergen politician and the mayor Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen have a great understanding of. If the Norwegian Football Association had had it on its own to oblige Firen to change the name of Hordaland football club, department Bergen, sector Firen, then the former Bergen politician might have fought back and reacted. I actually think the whole Bergen city had protested against this. The brand name Radium Hospital is in many ways the same for the international cancer environment as Firen is for football-ridden mountainers. It's a self-esteem in continuing the name. Another example had been whether the new Holmenkoll hill had changed its name to Oslo ski hill, department Holmenkollen, or whether Coca-Cola had got new owners and baptized the drink into mineral water with cola-flavouring. You don't make that kind of change with well-established brand names. It would have been completely unimaginable for owners of that kind of product. Sometimes you can take things you already have, for granted. The back by taking something for granted is that it can easily be lost if you are not constantly working to keep it, as everyone who is involved in brand construction knows. The same is true of the competence environment for cancer research in Norway. We need to cultivate and facilitate to develop the unique environment and expertise we have at the Radium Hospital, the Cancer Register and the Oslo Cancer Cluster. This can best be done by transforming it into a national competence centre with an international average. So once again, I want the Council of State to explain how this can best be done, and whether the changes we are witnessing are appropriate in this context. I am thinking of both the brand name Radium Hospital, the location of the Cancer Registry, funds for the stem cell centre and the framework conditions for Oslo Cancer Cluster.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1156	It really wasn't meant not to answer the question. I hope I did. But I'm going to try to clarify this something, because there's something I really agree with the representative Per Arne Olsen in, and it's just that brands should be taken care of. That's why I just want to read the last section of the letter that I sent to Per Arne Olsen in connection with a written reply about the very same, about the Radium Hospital as a brand name. It says: ‘Health South-East RHF has previously made it clear to the Ministry of Health and Welfare that the brand name Radium Hospital will be continued based on the attitude of the Health and Care Committee and would follow up on the fact that the name Radium Hospital will receive the intended identity and profile exposure.’ [[...]] That's something I will of course also follow up on. At the same time, the Radium Hospital is now part of Oslo University Hospital. We have to accept that, and that's good. They have gathered their hospitals under Oslo University Hospital, but it still needs to be clear what is the Radium Hospital, and the Radium Hospital as a brand name should be preserved. Because I fully agree that too many people are an identity, and that it is certainly well known beyond the borders of Norway. I would like to clarify that again, as it has also been tried to clarify in the letter sent. It was said here that our government had blocked stem cell research, or not invested in it. That's not right. With all due respect, we have speeded it up just now by the government opening up research on fertilized eggs. I also have to say that with the research undertaken both centrally and at regional health companies, there is a significant research effort taking place in medical research every year. Of course, Oslo Cancer Cluster with all the institutions that are there, together with the Radium Hospital, with the environments of the Rikshospitale, Ullevål and the Cancer Register, is an important centre of gravity that is to be cared for and that is at the heart of cancer research in Norway. At the same time, there is some research around the country. We should be happy about that – also so that they can also contribute to the network that I know exists within this part of the research.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1172	Today's interpellation is valuable, among other things. because it allows us to discuss long lines in Norwegian cancer research and Norwegian cancer treatment. The incidence of cancer increases with age, and as we get older and older, more of us get cancer during our lives. Research on cancer has been prioritised by authorities and non-governmental organisations. The Norwegian Cancer Association has been a long-term carrier in the organisation and financing of Norwegian cancer research. In the cancer field, Norwegian environments have contributed in particular to increased knowledge internationally. This is partly due to national advantages, but in particular to perceptive individuals and environments that have chosen to bet without being able to be sure of where and how the initiatives could deliver results for patients in the future. An example of this is the creation of the Cancer Register early in the 1950s. The vision was to get a complete overview of all cancer cases in Norway and to use the material to study changes in the incidence of cancers and survival after treatment. This has become unique in an international context, because data collection is almost complete, and because the population is identifiable through the personal identification system. Almost no other country or geographical area has both these qualities and both are necessary to provide reliable statistical data. The applications have been numerous. Data have shown that changed sun habits have given more skin cancer. That's when public information helps. Data have shown that occupational exposure to certain substances is a cause of cancer. Measures can then be implemented. Data have also clarified that many causal hypotheses can be rejected. It takes away undue anxiety. The research base of a national and population-based cancer register is increasing over time. This is therefore a Norwegian research advantage. A researcher once stated that the Cancer Register is a comparative advantage for Norwegian cancer research in the same way that the power of the feet is for Norwegian energy supply. Let me also show you an example of Norwegian pioneering work for children with blood cancer. The pediatrician and Professor Peter Johan Moe wrote in a memoir that in the early 1970s, small children with blood cancer had to be treated with cell poison into the spinal fluid throughout 36 pectoral and treatment stages. Based on dialogue with colleagues and limited trials, it was decided to hundreds of times the usual dose of cytotoxicity, which in itself would be lethal, but it was followed by antidote 36 hours later. This is one of the major breakthroughs in modern cancer treatment, and on its 70th birthday, the Norwegian children’s doctor was greeted by 50 previous cancers who had recovered, and were present on the birthday. These reports show that small Norwegian environments have prevailed internationally in the years that lie behind us. The challenges today are complicated after decades of accelerated growth in knowledge. This requires extensive cooperation. It is important and gratifying that the public and private sectors have come together in the Oslo Cancer Cluster structure. An international journal ranked Oslo's biotechnology environment among the 20 best in the world in 2008. It is also gratifying that leading Norwegian biotechnology companies, such as Lytix Biopharma, PCI Biotech and DiaGenic, reached important goals and agreements last year. In that case, research and innovation policy must have been right. My main points are these: The Norwegian cancer research communities have been and are strong especially because of innovative individual researchers, towards long-term investment and, increasingly, good cooperation. Oslo Cancer Cluster is in a way becoming the interaction perspective in cancer research. At the same time, this debate should say: give our size, we must give priority between environments and projects. Competence and research resources should not be distributed flat throughout the field. Priority must be given to areas and environments. This is demanding both for the trade unions and for us politicians. But we're going to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1198	Cancer is one of our most common public diseases. About 26,000 patients get cancer every year. But cancer affects many more, it affects the patients' families, friends and colleagues. Today, February 4th, we mark the World's Cancer Day, and that is why it is a good initiative by the representative Olsen to address this issue in the Stortinget. Norway has some of the world's leading environments in cancer research, and right we think we need to develop them further. The Norwegian Register of Cancer has, as many have been involved, a unique collection of data that is crucial for future-oriented health research. The right is very concerned about the protection of privacy in health research. We are therefore pleased that the Register of Cancer has been given the opportunity to correct errors in the Register of Mammography by collecting the consent of women who have participated without giving explicit consent to this. This is essential for this unique source of knowledge on cancer to benefit women all over the world. The right eartag 6 million. kr in our alternative budget to finance the demanding work of obtaining the consent of the women concerned. I would like to ask the Council of State to state the status of this work and to assure the Government that it is helping to put this in order. From the Right, we believe it is important that the Register of Cancer should continue to be closely linked to the clinical environments also through physical proximity. This is essential for the interaction between the clinic and research, which benefits patients. We will therefore warn against submitting the Register of Cancer to the Institute of Public Health. We would like to remind you that Minister of Health and Health, Brustad, in the last period, assured Stortinget that such reorganisation is not relevant without the matter being brought before Stortinget. The right also supports the requirements for the continuation of the names of the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital, so that these internationally recognised brand names can be recognised. Oslo Cancer Cluster is a Norwegian Centre of Expertise. The programme was started by Erna Solberg when she was a municipal minister. Genome Technology magazine from New York in June 2008 Oslo Cancer Cluster of one of the 20 leading biotechnology clusters in the world in the development of new cancer treatment and diagnostics. They were the only ones from Europe on the list. The 55 members of the Oslo Cancer Cluster have over 50 potential cancer drugs in clinical trials. If we exploit the potential of biotechnology, this industry can save lives and provide many people with better health and quality of life. But it requires us to prioritise research in a completely different way than what we've seen in the last four years. The government's cutting edge for research is a strategy we simply can't afford. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Government has abandoned the objectives of making research 3 pst. of GDP, of which State intervention is to be 1 pst. Right will stand firm on these ambitious goals, which are absolutely necessary for us to be equipped to meet the challenges of the future. In the Right's Alternative Budget, we proposed an increased investment in research and knowledge by NOK 1 billion. In addition, we agreed to earmark funds for quality measures in healthcare, including health records. The Cancer Association has today pointed out in the media that there is a lack of information on waiting times for cancer patients. Director Aarseth of the Health Directorate states that the reason for this is that hospitals should not be given the impression that waiting times are acceptable in this area. However, there is a fact that there are waiting times for such treatment, as patients experience. Then we believe from the Right that it is unacceptable that this is not disclosed, so that patients know what they have to deal with. Without this information, it is also not possible to choose treatment in hospitals with a shorter waiting time. I'll ask the Council of State to make sure that the truth of the waiting times becomes known to the patients, and I challenge her here now in the Storting to answer this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1219	The interpellant underlines that Norway is at the forefront of research, development and treatment in the field of cancer. The interpellant asks how the Council of State will ensure a good and sensible further development of the existing environment of competence, in the light of the changing processes taking place in the Norwegian health system. This is an important theme. I think the Council of State is giving very good answers to this. Medical and health research is and must be a priority area and change processes should help to strengthen the professional environment. One important objective of combining regions in the south and east and establishing Oslo University Hospital was that the region should become a force centre for medical research. The interpellant is very busy because the brand name Radium Hospital will not be destroyed. In the VG today we can read that the interpellant – and others – fears that the process that is now being carried out in Health South-East will remove the name Radium Hospital: ‘The brand name Radium Hospital shall continue to live, everything else is madness’ I fully agree with the interpellant that research, development and treatment in the field of cancer must be a priority. I also have a lot of understanding that name means a lot, and that it should be a good reason for renaming, for example. a hospital. But I don't agree with the interpellant's statement, that what's happening is madness. I think we have to accept the aggregations that are made by the health regions, and the formation of Oslo University Hospitals. That Oslo University Hospital uses this name, among others. on the papers and their envelopes, rather than the "Radium Hospital", should not be what gets the most political focus here on the Storting. What is important is that the Radium Hospital is a brand name to be passed on, and this is also established by Health South-East, as the Minister of Health has done well today. In the debate, we talk a lot about research, development, competence, strengthening the professional environment and further development of national cancer centres. I note that there are few who mention the word 'prevention' in the debate. But if there's some good evidence, it's that one of three cancers can be prevented, or postponed in time. The big discussion in the future should focus on how to facilitate the better prevention of cancer in all walks of life and in all areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1233	Let me start with the last article. I think it's a little bit sad to hear that you don't understand what an international brand name really means. Today, we can register that we are receiving telephone calls from people who call for what they think is the Radium Hospital, who are told that they have come to Oslo University Hospital and put them on, and who are wondering where to call. It tells you a little bit about how important a name is. It's not just a trifle, unfortunately. As for the post from the medical representative, who is a doctor, and who has previously worked in the field, I think it was very good, and a good and necessary story about what has happened in this area so far. I guess that's good. But what I'm trying to do with this case is to come up with some challenges about how to maintain our skills, how to develop it, and how to move on. It's always important to raise our eyes and strengthen what we have that is already good. If we're not willing to work with and take care of what we have, it's going to be confusing by itself, because the world is moving on. To the government council, I would like to say, "She claimed that I had said that you had not invested in stem cell centers." That's not what I said. I said that this had been “underpriority”, and I saw for example. in relation to our neighbouring country Sweden, our investment is a fraction of their investment in the same area. That you've been betting, I've given you a full reward. But we from the Progress Party believe that there should have been even more effort on this. That's why the word I used was “underpriority”, not that you hadn't been betting. Then I will try to take the answer from the Council of State seriously when she refers to both my previous enquiry and this letter. But as VG says today, what you're afraid of is not the answer you get from Oslo University Hospital. It has been seen how this is intended to be dealt with in practice, namely that it should be on paper, on walls and on all profiles stand Oslo University Hospital. It's supposed to be on Montebello, or where it had to be. When we get into the fourth line, it's in a little parentheses that it's the Radium Hospital we're talking about. Then you don't understand what a brand name is. It turns out that Coca-Cola had changed its name, and that in a parentheses at the bottom of the bottle it said that it was this that was previously known as Coca-Cola. This is not the way to treat internationally recognised brands. Now, when the Council of State assures us that it is going to be clear that the brand is the Radium Hospital, that this is not just to be stated, but that it should actually be strengthened, I choose to take it seriously. And I choose to believe the Council of State that she is now going to intervene and make sure that the brand name Radium Hospital gets the location it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1244	The representative Are Health said that the Cancer Register is a priority for Norway. Of course it is. The cancer register is very important, especially with the quality registers associated with the Cancer Register, which have given a lot of knowledge about cancer treatment, a lot of experience data that has been important for many people who have cancer, and which is of course important for further efforts. But at the same time, it is important to see the health records in the context. The Cancer Register is an institution under Health South-East, Oslo University Hospital. It has to be further developed with the intentions that you have had in the past. What to do with the registers in total, we need to get back to when the consultation round is completed and clarified. So I have to say that the Right now has to stop talking about rest cuts in the research. Now the right actually has to see what we're doing. I fully agree that stem cell research is important. But it's actually thanks to our government that this has got a real acceleration. So we can agree that we're going to give it a high priority. I fully agree with the inter-pellant. In the case of screening data in the mammography programme, the Data Protection Authority has said that if cancer is not detected, data is not allowed to be stored without the consent of the individual. It's a work that's now being further worked on, so we're complying with the Data Protection Authority's decision. But it is also true that if cancer is detected, you have every right to collect the data in the Cancer Register. It's done. Then there's one thing that's taken up, and there's waiting times and cancer. It is not that some people will under-communicate waiting times associated with cancer compared with waiting times for other diseases. On the contrary, the Health Directorate is concerned that there should be no waiting time for cancer. The databases that update waiting times once a month will in some way make no sense, because in practice there should be no waiting time associated with cancer. This is something I'm going to follow up, especially based on the recordings that have been made, and what has been said here, for those who get a cancer diagnosis to have good information, and there should not be any waiting time that can be recorded after a month. This is important, because these patients are the highest priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1261	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1267	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1275	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Mette Hanekamhaug on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-4, by Mr Mette Hanekamhaug on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 5, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is included on pages 6 and 7 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 6 and 7 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 6 and 7 from the Left, converted into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 6 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that class management is emphasised in the framework plans for the new teacher training, inter alia, with a particular focus on preventing bullying in school.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure a broad research effort related to the bullying challenges at school, in order to contribute in this way to real knowledge-based work and action in the fight against bullying.’ The President proposes that these proposals be submitted to the Government without a trial — and considered adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of bullying agents in each State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1321	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1350	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up demands for schools to either have an anti- bullying programme or an obliging action plan against bullying.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1378	There is no voting theme in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1386	During the debate, the representative Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new legislative proposal based, inter alia, on the following main characteristics: – That the scheme should be based on the original intention of caring for the workers. – The extension of the scheme to include those not bound by a collective agreement, i.e. the extension of the State contribution to the scheme to all pensioners.’ This proposal will, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, be added to the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1821	The Progress Party has announced here that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1835	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Progress Party has announced here that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1849	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. There is no voting theme in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-04.ana.ud2676e1873	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
