ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e37	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. The following alternates have taken their seat: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn For the State of Finnmark: Anne Karin Olli For the Province of Rogaland: Arne Bergsvåg For Eastfold County: John Thune An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten from 9 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Martin Henriksen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e78	Martin Henriksen is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e86	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e89	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to make proposals on health services for illegal immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e94	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e97	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to propose a representative for better drug treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e102	The representative, Elizabeth Skogrand, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e106	Representatives Arve Kambe, Svein Harberg, André Oktay Dahl and I are promoting a proposal for a representative to set up a centre for the multidisciplinary and comprehensive fight against trafficking in human beings and child abuse via digital media – following the model of the British CEOP Centre. Then it's a good thing that it's the International Safe Internet Day today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e113	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e116	I do not want to put forward one, but actually two representative proposals. The first is from the representatives Anne Karin Olli, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Arve Kambe and myself on co-fishing for the coastal fleet. The second is from the representatives of Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Arve Kambe and signed to make the Norwegian International Ship Register more attractive and competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e125	Two motions for a resolution tabled by Mr Fletten have been tabled by the representative of Mr Fletten. All the proposed representatives will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e141	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e155	Through presentations and debates in the United Kingdom, a broad common platform for Norwegian Afghanistan policy has been established over the years. This is a force for Norway, and for our military and civilians serving in Afghanistan. And it increases the ability of Norwegian authorities to participate with clear messages and commitment when developments are discussed internationally, in Afghanistan, in the UN and in NATO. Part of this common platform is the development of our understanding of the challenges we face, the understanding of the conflict that a unanimous UN Security Council has repeatedly referred to as a threat to regional and international peace and security. So, first of all, before briefing me on the arrangements for Norway's action in the future, let me summarise some of the main features of this understanding now, following the Afghan presidential elections, in the light of the adjustment of the US Afghanistan strategy and not least after the recent Conference of Afghanistan in London. It goes without saying that understanding all these challenges Afghanistan is facing cannot be static. It is demanding to follow this complex development, capture new features, new realities – both political, social, military and strategic – and then let them shape not only our own understanding and strategy, but also the direction of the multinational commitment of which Norway is part. Equally full, some fundamental issues characterize the understanding of the challenges at the beginning of 2010, and let me mention ten such issues: Firstly, Norway’s presence in Afghanistan should contribute to social and economic development in the country and to stability in the region. We must help build Afghan capacity for its own security and development, and we must strengthen the coordinating role of the UN. Our goal is to prevent Afghanistan from developing into a base for international terrorism. That is why Afghanistan needs to be more stable. Social and political nation-building and state-building in Afghanistan are not only objectives in themselves; they are instruments to contribute to stability and to eliminate the threat to Afghan children, women and men – but also to us, the international community, of which Norway is part. Secondly, there is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan. All complex conflicts are unique, but against a historical backdrop it can be stated that hardly any comparable conflict is settled by military means alone. There must be a political solution. And it must be Afghan anchored. Thirdly, on the road to a political solution, military presence will be required – not to be able to settle the conflict alone, but to create a sufficient security area where political and economic development is possible and which makes it clear to the insurgents that they cannot and will not win a military victory. If the military presence is to contribute to the creation of this space, which is necessary to create a political solution, it is to demand great demands on how the military forces act. The population must experience that military presence creates security, not fear. Fourthly, the Afghans must be the leaders of a political solution that must embrace all the groups that make up it – for us – complex Afghan society, and Afghanistan's relationship with its neighbours in the region. That is why Afghan political reconciliation and reintegration processes are becoming so crucial in time, as highlighted at the International Afghanistan Conference in London on 28 January this year. Fifthly, the Afghans must be the leading actors both in terms of their own security and in terms of economic and social development. Decades of assistance experience have taught us that the key to progress is capacity building: that those who receive support are able to continue projects and bets on their own. For this reason, we – who are contributors – need more assistance and less assistance. We should be careful to replace the Afghan solutions we want to promote. Instead, we have to build them up, something that sometimes requires us to go one step aside and accept that the Afghans are doing things their way. Sixth, we cannot see Afghanistan in isolation. It is essential for the stability of the country that the region is also stable, that Afghanistan and its neighbours strengthen the regional community and take a much stronger joint responsibility for the stability of the region. Seventh, we have to recognise some long lines in history that are about where Afghanistan comes from, and what we can realistically expect when the Afghans themselves exercise an important right – the right to rule themselves. We will highlight the importance of the obligations it has to respect fundamental human rights. But we have to recognize that the Afghans will also be able to make choices in the future and focus on values that are alien to us and that sometimes oppose us directly. Eighth, we have a long-term perspective on our contributions in Afghanistan. But our military presence shall not last longer than strictly necessary. It can gradually be stepped down as Afghan forces themselves can take responsibility for the security of the country. The course is cancelled for such a transfer of responsibility. But it is not possible to specify an exact date. We are now in the transition to full Afghan responsibility. Norway is not acting alone or unilaterally. We went in with our allies, and we want to step down and end the military presence at a pace and a tone that is tuned both with our allies and with Afghan authorities. ninth, our debate must have an eye on the complex picture that Afghanistan will always be. In the international media, there are insurrections that characterize the news. They are also serious, and they are increasing in numbers, taking several lives – military, also Norwegian, and to the most extent an increasing number of Afghan civilians. At the same time, part of the strategy of the rebels is to allow such spectacular attacks to create the experience of chaos. To some extent, the number of hits is also a consequence of increased military presence. When ISAF and Afghan security forces are now more effective in larger parts of the country than a few years ago, contact with the rebel groups is also increasing. Several impacts do not always mean that the situation is getting worse for the Afghan population. But then let us not forget: there is also another Afghan image that does not show chaos – an image that shows progress in living conditions for millions of Afghans. We're not going to put too much into surveys, but it might surprise you that 70 pst. by the Afghans believe that the country is moving in the right direction – according to a reliable January poll on behalf of, among others, BBC – while the corresponding proportion one year ago was 40 pst. And for the tenth – and one last understanding, which must shape our approach to all aspects of the Afghan challenge: the fight against rebellion, terror and instability will never be more effective than the quality of the government we want to support. We need to establish a more mutual partnership where we who contribute from the outside can hold the Afghan leadership responsible for better governance, fight against corruption, fight against drug fields, and hold them responsible for work on reconciliation between Afghans. At the same time, legally elected Afghan authorities can hold us responsible for better donor coordination, respect for civil life and respect that Afghans resolve their anti-interests in Afghan ways – and not in external dictatorships. This is the backbone of the assessments we are now making of the further Norwegian effort in Afghanistan. The strategy for our own efforts is our own responsibility. But it should fit into a broader strategic web for the UN, ISAF and NATO. And then the effort must be made to match the priorities set by the Afghans themselves. In the last six months, clarifications have been made – by the end of January at the conference in London, where the Afghan authorities and the international community agreed on a common map for the road further. But we should recognise that the operation in Afghanistan is among the most complex that can be expected, both because the task in Afghanistan itself is complex and because it is a partnership with dozens of participating countries. At the same time, we are witnessing a positioning between global and regional powers that see this task in Afghanistan in the context of an even greater strategic picture. The changes in the strategy, in the map, have also been forced by negative developments in the landscape – i.e. on the ground: over the last few years, the security situation has deteriorated. The humanitarian organisations and other aid workers also find the situation to be more difficult. We see that the Taliban and other rebel groups are strengthened, and we see an increase in the number of attacks, where Kabul is also affected. We see that the number of attacks on ISAF is increasing, and more soldiers have lost their lives in the last few years than before. Of Norwegians we shall be remembered with respect Claes Joachim Olsson, who was killed on 25 January this year, Trond Petter Kolset, in April 2009, Kristoffer Sørli Jørgensen, in November 2007, Torne Lau-Henriksen, in July 2007 and Tommy Rødningsby, who was killed in May 2004. The Afghan security forces also suffer losses and, in all armed conflicts, the civilian population suffers the most. Afghanistan is no exception. We see that many attacks by the rebels are deliberately directed at the civilian population. So we have to ask, what are the reasons for this development? And once again, they're compounded. Firstly, the Taliban and other rebel groups stand stronger in the military. They have the capacity and capacity to carry out actions across large areas of the country, including in the north. The Taliban has established parallel power structures in most provinces. At the same time, we see few signs that a majority of Afghans should want the Taliban regime back. Let me add that the very concept of Taliban is complex. Important parts of the insurgent activities we see are inspired and led by the Taliban leadership that directed the country until 2001, while other insurgents come from other groups that are either independent of the Taliban or related to the solstice. Other insurgent forces are anchored in Afghanistan’s complex webs of ethnic and clan-based contradictions. Then we have to add something that in turn is criminally motivated. We need to recognise this complexity. Reducing the insurrection to a single opponent is a simplification of the Afghan reality we stand up to. Secondly, the rebel forces have relinquished their warfare. More than in the past, road bombs, suicide bombers and complex attacks are used. It's a kind of warfare where the ability to estimate itself is central, without any immediate political or territorial gain. While around 300 such estimates were recorded in 2004, this increased to over 7 000 in 2009. The tactical objectives of the rebels are not necessarily to take over areas from the Governmental Forces and ISAF, but rather to exhaust the disintegration of the government side and to show its own strength. Thirdly, the authority structures of Afghanistan are still in place. They are weak and characterised by lack of control and influence, especially in the provinces and districts. The four-year presidential elections, marked by irregularities, also contributed to weakening the confidence of President Karzai and his government. At the same time, we should note that it was the Afghans' own bodies that exposed the irregularities and called for the implementation of other elections. This, after all, shows that independent institutions are beginning to have a foothold in the country. Fourthly, there are clear signs of economic progress, but many Afghans feel that economic and social developments are too slow. The population has experienced 30 years of war and wants visible results from today's extensive international engagement. Slow progress is due to the enormous needs of this world’s fifth poorest country, but also to the lack of capacity of Afghan authorities, corruption and international efforts, which are still characterised by self-interest and lack of coordination. But as mentioned above, the picture is not completely black. There are brighter features: pictures of girls on their way to schools, pictures of health stations delivering, pictures of the country's security forces taking responsibility for their citizens, who handle violent attacks in cities, and pictures of young Afghans who, in their belief in a better future, create new arenas for political debate. When I last visited Afghanistan in November, I met firemen from civil society who thought there was cause for cautious optimism. Afghanistan is being built, slowly, but surely, and we should also take that on board, as we have done in previous Afghanistan reviews here in the United Kingdom. Let me take a few more examples: over half of all Afghan children now go to school, and almost half of young people between the ages of 15 and 19 can read and write. This is about seven million children, compared to two million a few years ago. A quarter of Afghan women now receive assistance from health professionals during birth. A short time ago, only 16 pst. medical assistance. Today is 95 pst. of all children under five years of age vaccinated. A nationwide study shows that 61 pst. by the Afghans believe that their child will have a better life than they themselves have had. Agriculture is the main nutrient route, and the number of Afghans with access to land for cultivation rose by 8 percentage points between 2005 and 2008, to 55 pst. This increase is due in particular to improved irrigation systems. Infrastructure is crucial for economic development, and the completion of the nearly 2,000 kilometres of the so-called ring road connecting Afghanistan as a whole is nearing completion. A railway line between Palatinate and Iran is under construction, and several other major projects are under construction. Over 70 pst. of the population of Afghanistan is in close proximity to transport years and a survey showed that more than half of all households believe that road conditions have been improved in recent years. Better roads mean easier access to healthcare and better market access. In 2005, there were 23 p.m. of the population access to electricity. Today the share is 42 pst. In the case of general security, the entire 80 pst is equivalent. they asked in a UNDP-initiated study that they experience the safety situation as well as where they live. The elections in August 2009 had strong indications of fraud and manipulation. Yet: Many Afghans, including women, challenged the rebels and chose to cast their votes. We saw election campaigns being held in large parts of the country and with much better media coverage and open debates than before. Public space has grown, and debates have become freer. Thus, in such a context, developments in 2009 have taken some further steps in the construction of democratic political institutions. Parliament has become more active, as we saw in January when it rejected several of the candidates proposed by President Karzai to the new government. A number of former bitter opponents today choose to work within the political rules that a democratic political system draws up. This is an important advance in a war army in Afghanistan. Building public institutions, supporting policy reform processes and coordinating civil efforts are among the main tasks of the United Nations in Afghanistan. Once again, I would like to point out that the UN was late in implementing the state-building work in the country. This, together with some of the decisions on the Afghan regime taken at the Bonn conference in 2001, is among yesterday's clear mistakes that we have gone further. In retrospect, it is easy to see that too fragmented international efforts at the outset, and too little focus on civil and political needs, led to the loss of important years in the work of a stable Afghanistan. But the London Conference showed the will and ability to look forward. The UN Special Representative Kai Eide has made a significant effort to focus and consolidate the UN’s commitment – and to strengthen the decisive political contact between the UN and Afghan authorities. Owned the harvest justified recognition for his work of strengthening civil coordination, and he deserves our praise as his two-year period now runs to the end. At the same time, the UN is facing increasing challenges on the ground, and the organisation is striving to secure the necessary resources and personnel to carry out its coordinating and leading role. It was therefore essential that the UN General Assembly, on 24 December last year, approved an increase of 60 p.m. in the budget. for UNAMA – the UN Mission in Afghanistan. Norway has made an active contribution here, and we will continue to press for the UN Secretariat to fill the vacancies quickly, so that UNAMA will be able to coordinate its efforts with the Afghan authorities. But, as always, the UN does not get better than what the Member States make up the World Organisation. From the Norwegian side, we have been working continuously to strengthen the coordination of international efforts through the UN in Afghanistan and to ensure optimum coordination with Afghan authorities. This line we're going to continue. Parliamentary elections are scheduled to take place on 18 September this year. It is important for the legitimacy of the elections and the people's commitment to democracy that reforms be implemented before this election, and that the lessons learned from the presidential elections be incorporated into the further process. We support the work of ensuring an independent electoral commission. Only in that way can we be sure that future elections are fair and proper, without irregularities like last year. The UN will play a crucial role in providing technical support to the Afghan electoral institutions. The International Conference in London, as its motto ‘Afghan Leadership – International Partnership’, was a clear expression of the fact that we are now entering a new phase, in which two aspects in particular will be important: firstly, to establish a political process and, secondly, to set up efforts in such a way that Afghan authorities can take greater responsibility for their own security and economic development. This is positive and an expression of an approach that Norway has been working for a long time. As for the first point, political, President Karzai called for the launch of a peace and reconciliation process. He also announced plans for a peace jirga, a peace council where the leaders of all tribes and ethnic groups will be gathered. This is important, and it is an attempt to include those groups that did not participate in the Bonn process in 2001, including: central pashtuner groups were excluded. A peace and reconciliation process should support the international community, but it must be the Afghans themselves who sit in the driver's seat. It must be their responsibility to find Afghan solutions within the country's constitution. The process must include all groups that make up the Afghan community. UNAMA and Afghan authorities have also called for a review of the so-called 1267 list, including a list of sanctions. Taliban members, as a trusting measure in the light of the forthcoming political process. In order to support the peace and reconciliation process, a new reintegration programme and fund was presented in London. In total, the international community announced contributions of about 140 million. dollar – USD – for this. On the Norwegian side, we are positive about the intentions, but we have not yet signalled support, and we also want to know more about, among other things. the device of the fund. Strengthening Afghan authorities, both military and civil, was the second main theme in London. On the security side, President Karzai suggested that they could assume responsibility for security over the next two to three years. It's a demanding lift. The criteria for this are now being addressed in NATO. On the civil side, too, there was a growing recognition that greater efforts need to be directed towards more support through Afghan budgets and increased capacity-building efforts and improved governance, in order to improve the effectiveness of the aid. These are views that Norway has long promoted, and we will continue to have this high on the international agenda. Another dimension at the London Conference was a strong focus on anti-corruption. President Karzai made it clear that this is going to be his main priority in the future. The Government has presented an anti-corruption strategy proposing a strengthened Commission to investigate, and the establishment of an independent expert group to develop indicators. Conferences, such as in London, create commitments, but history has also shown that conferences are not sufficient to change developments in Afghanistan. The Afghan authorities bear the primary responsibility to produce the results promised in London in January. Only in this way will we ensure national anchoring, necessary legitimacy and sustainable development. However, the Afghan authorities have the right and the right to demand better coordination from the international community. It's a persistent problem that only between 10 and 20 pst. international civil aid goes through Afghan channels and other aid is allocated on the basis of the priorities of the donors more than those of the Afghans. General McChrystals – COMISAFs – review of ISAF’s military strategy has gained impact in NATO and among ISAF’s partners. McChrystal recommends an increase in both civil and military efforts to ensure that Afghan authorities can take responsibility for their own security. President Obama has agreed to the main points of the COMISAF's recommendations, and the US build-up of force in Afghanistan has begun. The American presence is strengthened by more than 30,000 soldiers. Most of these will be deployed in the south and east of the country in months to come, but it will also mean an American increase in power in the north that will open up opportunities for closer cooperation for us with the United States. The forces will have as one of their main tasks the protection of the civilian population and the strengthening of the capacity of Afghan security forces. This is also a central part of ISAF’s strategy. Today units from the Afghan army participate in up to 70 pst. of planned ISAF operations, and they manage half of them. This testifies to increased Afghan capacity which is now being developed further. At the last meeting of the coordination body ‘Joint Coordination and Monitoring Board’ in Kabul, the Afghan authorities agreed to increase the strengthening objectives of the Afghan army and police to a total of 305 600 personnel by October 2011. The decision was widely welcomed during the London Conference. US funding costs will be incurred up to and including 2010, and NATO is monitoring the resource implications of such an increased leverage. Norwegian efforts will also increasingly focus on such capacity building. It's in itself nothing new. Norway has for several years prioritised training, advice and guidance in our work with Afghan security forces and with the police. In line with the leadership of NATO and ISAF, both Norwegian military efforts and efforts in the civil security sector will be further turned towards training and guidance in the coming years. As part of this work, the Government intends to propose a total of around 660 million for the years 2010–2014. kr in support of the training, advice and guidance of Afghan security forces. The funds are transferred through the two funds set up for the Afghan army, ANA, and the police, ANP. A key challenge for such exposures in Afghanistan is to make civil and military efforts work together well and tidy. The debate on military and civil coordination often raises questions about mandates, where the border is going, and what is the right sharing of responsibilities. One issue addressed is whether military forces should also be assigned the task of directly assisting in the civil field – such as providing food or building roads. We must foreshadow some basic principles in this context: for Norway it is important to protect humanitarian space. This means that there are humanitarian tasks that should not, as far as possible, be involved in political and military strategies. This is true in Afghanistan as in other countries where we are engaged. All experience and research shows that this also produces the best results in the long term. In a country like Afghanistan, the political loyalty of different groups will often change. We mix civil and military roles, that is. civil assistance is earmarked for those on the ‘our’ side of the conflict, and this link to one side of the military conflict can easily endanger both recipients and auxiliary workers and their organisations. This is also the background to the division we have of our civil and military efforts in Faryab, where the military care for security, while the civil actors work with social and economic development, but closely coordinated. This is also at the heart of the Government’s strategy for a comprehensive civil and military effort in this province. The roles of civil and military actors shall be clarified. But that does not mean that efforts cannot and should not be coordinated. We want a close cooperation, but we want to avoid contact. Norway has come a long way here, and we will continue to work. This is noted in Afghanistan, by the population, the authorities and other donors. Let me repeat one of the basic understandings of the road further in Afghanistan: stability and peace in the country must be ensured through a broad political solution, covering as much as possible several of the groups currently placed in the category of rebels. Furthermore, a political reconciliation process must come from the Afghans themselves. A study conducted by The Asia Foundation shows that today there is greater openness among Afghans in finding such policy solutions than a few years ago. This is also a position that now has international recognition and was strongly emphasised in London. A good reconciliation process requires political consensus and disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration of rebel groups. The aim must be that the rebels, often a poor, unemployed Afghan man in rural areas, come to work or enter the Afghan security forces. This is a big and demanding task. At the same time, such an approach has been crucial in most successful reconciliation processes over the last decades, whether in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East or the Balkans. Here, too, we see the need to take over the complexity of Afghan society. Categorical distinctions between who constitutes the ‘good’ or the ‘bad’ forces are incompatible with the approximation of such reconciliation processes. The mental maps designed by some after 2001 therefore need to be adjusted in order to move forward in Afghanistan. At the same time, we must respect the fact that many fears that a political agreement with rebel groups will lead to a significant strengthening of the reactionary forces that led up to 2001 and that it will harm women's position and human rights in general. This is also a fear not only of parts of the Afghan population, but also of several of the countries in the region who fear the return of an Islamic regime in Afghanistan. It's obviously a demanding project to reconcile and reintegrate the Taliban, but we need to understand how complex this relationship is. Often it is about finding integrated solutions for the Pashtun population. In line with our strategic objective, to prevent the country from becoming once again a base for terror and still a source of regional instability, we should not oppose such reintegration if the Afghans choose it. On the other hand, we should be clear about the importance of a clear border climb against Al Qaida, which is a grouping and a network that has neither had any basic affiliation to Afghanistan, to Afghan traditions, history or the country's culture. On the day leading elements within the Taliban break with Al Qaida, the possibilities of a Genuine Afghan reconciliation process will be strengthened. A successful reconciliation process also requires political agreement on the Afghan side on respect for the position of women and the schooling of children. Strengthening civil society and women's position in Afghan society must be central to finding policy solutions. Women must be seen and heard, and the Afghan judiciary must be strengthened in order to stand for the greatest possible degree of justice. We have to recognise that this may seem strange even to some of the people we work with in Afghanistan. But Afghanistan is – and should be – part of the international community. We are talking here about basic universal values that cannot be overlooked or negotiated away. A solution for Afghanistan must also provide a solution for the region, where the neighbouring country of Afghanistan is included and responsible for achieving stability. A major challenge here is the situation in Pakistan, where developments are particularly alarming, with a continuous series of terrorist attacks killing and mutilating a large number of civilians, weakening central power and spreading instability. Therefore, Pakistani civil and military authorities must continue their efforts to limit influence to those groups that resort to violence and militant action. Here we see a wait and watch attitude: Pakistani power centers that fight their own rebel groups, but that oppose the activities of the Afghan Taliban on the Pakistani side of the border, in what looks like an unsolved power struggle between the Afghan Taliban and the Karzai government and its international supporters. This is a position that is common to several actors in the region. They do not necessarily want a Taliban-led Afghanistan, but they await the outcome of the Afghan conflict before falling heavily on one side or the other. The government launched an internal review of the overall Norwegian civil engagement in Afghanistan last October. This gives us a platform for clearer priorities in areas where Norway has a high level of competence and needs. Our main finding is that the existing Norwegian bets mainly coincide with the major needs of the country, and that it is a proper strategy to continue the bets in selected areas. Assuming that we have acceptable control options and that there is agreement on the actual needs, many years of experience have shown that channelling multi-fund assistance into Afghan budgets is the most cost-effective way to support Afghan priorities. At the same time, this contributes to better coordination and strengthens the capacity and competence of public finance management. This also supports the establishment of an Afghan political system. In order for people to take their political institutions seriously, they must also see that decisions taken by Parliament and the government are translated into concrete action. Politics is not least a matter of how public finances are organised — in Afghanistan as in other countries. Once the global community has channelled support beyond Afghanistan’s own budgets for so long, it has actually helped to undermine this important context. As mentioned earlier, in Afghanistan today, about one fifth of international aid goes through Afghan budgets. This is terribly low. Norway provides about 32 pst. of its contribution to Afghan budgets through the World Bank's Multi-stakeholder Fund and 27 p.m. through various funds and programmes, i.e. nearly 60 pst. through channels related to Afghan priorities. The government's ambition is to channel an ever-increasing share of total efforts into Afghan budgets through the World Bank's and the UN's Multiplier Fund. There is also some strong demand from Afghan authorities, and the UN has also encouraged donors. The increase will take into account the capacity of Afghan authorities to streamline their financial management, reduce corruption problems and exploit assistance. Here again, there is an important context: it seems that many donors are hesitant to provide funds to Afghan institutions precisely because they fear corruption and inefficiency. That's understandable. But this in turn leads to Afghan institutions remaining weak. We get a negative circle that takes us away from sustainable solutions. If the Afghan authorities meet the requirements of the international community, the Government’s objective is to complete this adjustment during the current major period. A specific area of intervention by the Norwegian side is Faryab, where the Norwegian-led stabilisation team is located, which currently receives about 15 pst. of the total Norwegian aid. We will continue to work to ensure that Faryab receives a fair share of Afghan budgets, in line with Afghan national priorities. Norway's main areas of action have so far been education, good governance and rural development, which I also pointed to in the interpellation debate here in the Stortinget on 17 November last year. A result of our internal review is a desire to concentrate civil efforts further. The main areas of action will also be assessed with a view to including higher education and energy. Furthermore, we will put greater emphasis on supporting civil society and human rights work, including women's participation in society. Within this civil effort, both in terms of volume and device, Norway has been a driver of international donor coordination – as I mentioned – using multi-stakeholder funds as channels for assistance, targeting aid efforts according to the priorities of the Afghan authorities, separating civil and military roles and focusing on women’s position and participation. In the case of efforts related to the Norwegian PRT, Norway has also largely channelled its aid through multi-stakeholder funds and set Afghan priorities as the basis for its efforts. Finally, let me briefly comment on some of these new areas of action, which we are considering stepping up. First, in the field of education: Afghanistan needs a better education system, and higher education is particularly important to ensure long-term development and access to qualified Afghans competent to govern the country. The starting point must be the long-term educational needs of the country, which involves the training of professional groups with the necessary professional competence to develop sectors in both State and private institutions. Secondly, energy and resource management is an area where Norway has good assumptions to make a difference. We have given and we continue to aim to provide technical assistance in this field in Afghanistan. Thirdly, building a strong civil society is a premise for the democratisation process in Afghanistan. Today, civil society is weak. In the future, Norway will support policy processes and the construction of open public platforms for debate, ensuring freedom of expression and respect for the rule of law, and also supporting human rights defenders. Norway has had a clear and clear voice in its support for actors in Afghan civil society, and this is an commitment we will continue and strengthen. The Nordic embassies of Kabul are part of a pilot project for Nordic cooperation in the fields of civil society, women's rights and human rights. As part of this effort, we will establish our own Nordic funding mechanism for supporting civil society that will be in place during the year. The project has been met with great interest from other international partners, and the UK authorities have said that they want to participate in this cooperation. Fourth, it is essential that Afghanistan be lifted out of poverty and war, that women's influence and power in society be strengthened. All comparative research shows this. Together with the other Nordic countries, Norway will be a driving force for women to contribute to the necessary economic development and stability in Afghanistan. The women’s perspective must therefore be integrated into all Norwegian support. For this is a reality: war and conflict affect men and women differently. Norway was at the head of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women in war and conflict. We have developed a separate action plan to address the needs and rights of women in conflict areas. As part of the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1325, we now have inter alia: a ‘genter adviser’ in place in the Norwegian military quota in Faryab to follow that perspective in our military operations. We also contribute such a consultant to the ISAF headquarters in Kabul. The fight against corruption is an integral part of all Norwegian efforts. This concerns our own projects, but also contributes to a stronger international effort to combat corruption. Last but not least, Norway will maintain a continuing strong humanitarian effort that, in volume terms, accounts for about one fifth of our total civil efforts. A proper humanitarian effort must be put in place in relation to the long-term involvement. Prevention and reconstruction are important elements of this work, while resources must be available to respond to crises and acute needs, for example: drought, water shortage and food shortage. Let me briefly summarise this statement by repeating that the main strategic objective of Norway and the presence of our partners in Afghanistan is to prevent the country from developing again into a base for international terrorism, and to contribute to stability in the region and to social and economic development in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e389	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement on developments in Afghanistan and Norway’s civil and military involvement in the country be discussed at a later meeting. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e407	Overall, planning work in Norway is an attempt to find a balance. There shall be a balance between public access to attractive areas and ownership – the right of people to manage what they themselves have – and the need for a degree of overall control and local self-government. I am generally sceptical about allowing individual matters to rule too much of the political agenda, but sometimes it is that individual matters can help to illustrate weaknesses, problems and challenges with the existing legislation. This interpellation is based on just such a single case, an individual case dealing with a Bambler from Telemark, as for approx. Ten years ago, we all experienced fear of being disabled. He was going to fix something in his garden, fell down from a tree and was paralyzed from life down. He lives beautifully in an area where the family has been empty for 100 years and where it is inhabited. But after he ended up in a wheelchair, it was obvious that the building that was already standing there, the house of the family, was not suitable, was not arranged for his use. Instead, he had to move into a multi-storey apartment that they also had to dispose of – a multi-storey apartment that was both flammable, not arranged, and which was in practice a prison cell where he had to stay, so to speak, 24 hours a day. The family was split, because it was not possible for them to fit on the same living area. One part of the family could still live in the old, unfurnished dwelling, while this man had to live in the family's terraced apartment, which was not arranged either. The natural thing is, of course, that you ask the municipality where you live, if you are allowed to build an organized dwelling. For various reasons it was not possible to arrange the old dwelling. It was necessary to apply for the permission to build a new, organised housing in the area, an area that is within the 100-metre belt, but which is densely built from before – where there are dwellings and permits have been granted for improvements and improvements for several years. The response from the technical committee in the municipality – after they had been on an inspection in the area, after they had talked to the municipal administration and asked about the man’s situation – was yes! This is what we're going to do. There were local politicians who know their municipality, local politicians from all parties represented at Stortinget. The famous man, the story, the area, they had lived there, had grown up there, been there, moved there. The municipality's technical committee said yes, we're going to do this. They used local common sense. They said that they should grant a derogation in this case, because serious health and social policy considerations were at stake. The County of Telemark didn't see it the same way. The County Council, set up to manage the state's plans and the state's rules, considered that there was no reason for exemption. Explicitly, the old legislation did not provide any reason for consideration of health and social policy aspects. The County of Telemark tried and overrun the local self-government. The State Council in East Agder fixed and confirmed the telemark state, and the state council that got the case on its table refused – even if he had the opportunity – to go in and test the case for the benefit of the man who wanted to build an organized dwelling. What does this case illustrate? Well, I think it illustrates both a larger and a smaller issue. Let me take the bigger issue first: there is no doubt that you need a national planning framework. There is no doubt that there is a need for a policy that is to some extent restrictive in order to prevent some of the most valuable areas we have in Norway from re-entering. In my opinion, however, there is no doubt that the balance has been distorted, that bureaucracy and legislation have become too rigid – that it is too difficult to use local judgement. I will almost go as far as to say that it is almost impossible to use common sense in the municipalities before the county councilman comes and knocks on the door and says that here it should be different. The second point is that it can be difficult to know the whole country well when sitting in the main hall and trying to look around. After all, one of the benefits of local democracy is that we choose people who live in the municipality, who are there, who meet people and neighbors, who know their community. At best, Storting politicians see a plan or a map or a code. Therefore, national rules are also not adapted to local conditions. The third point is that the right of derogation under the new Planning and Building Act is still being exercised too rigorously. There is too little opportunity for municipalities to grant exemptions based on local reason and local discretion. So that's the smaller point: the matter with the man from Bamble is not a unique matter. Of course, there are not many issues that concern the possibility of building furnished dwellings in areas which are initially subject to quite strict regulations, but the issues exist! It has been quite arbitrary whether the cases have led to the complaint being supported – or supported by the builder – or as in this case, that the builder has not received support initially. This means that the clarification in the new Law on Planning and Buildings, which ignores a general wording on specific conditions for granting exemptions to say that attention can also be given to health-related reasons, is good, but probably not good enough. It's a problem that the law says two different things at the same time: on the one hand, the law makes it more difficult to use local judgement, more difficult in many ways to grant exemptions. On the other hand, the law is crystal clear – and it is very good – that universal organization and universal design should be at the heart of it. I believe that many of the dilemmas we face today, much of the frustration that is out there, could be solved precisely by allowing local authorities and local politicians to take more of the responsibility for their own planning and building matters. By delegating responsibility downwards, it is said in practice that Stortinget does not know every municipality in this country. The size doesn't know people there. The size doesn't necessarily know the areas. And although the Storting will lay down the framework, there must nevertheless be considerable room for local discretion, local adaptations and local autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e435	Let me first comment directly on some of the things that the Red Isaac got into his interpellation. So it's not like the basics, as Red Isaac said, are the state's need for control. The fundamental balance here is between the public's need for access to the coastal zone and the many good considerations, to which Mr Isaksen stressed, so that the personal fate of individuals should also be taken into account and consideration is given to future generations to have access to the coastal zone. I think the Red Isaac and I very quickly agree that if you don't have a restrictive, general code for the beach zone, there won't be any beach zone again to talk about in the Oslo soil for the next generation. Now I'm looking up towards Nordmarka. If it hadn't been for a long time a strong political will to preserve the North Market, it would have been bit by bit eaten up by individual decisions and individual actions, not because of any evil will, not because someone wanted to subdue to the Nordmark, but because one wanted to build a cottage here, a road there and a dwelling there. That's the same thing for the beach zone: it will disappear if no one has the overall responsibility. That, of course, is the basis for this matter. Nor is it the case that local authorities are not responsible. Local authorities are responsible. However, what is now at the forefront is that local authorities should plan the development, possibly in the coastal zone, according to a plan, not through exemptions. There's a lot of good reasons for that, because if it happens through dispensations, there won't be a general whole in it. If it happens through dispensations, the suspicion of camaraderie – it may be camaraderie, but it doesn't have to be – will also be there in a completely different way. Let it be an open process with a plan that the municipalities are responsible for, and then the development is done according to this plan. What I have left to do in this matter is personally to review the state of Telemark and the state of East-Agder. So these are not'removable bodies', but people who, at best, have tried to make a decision based on knowledge of the area, nor have they overestimated the decision that the experts in the Ministry of Environment have made. If I were personally going to go over that kind of decision, I think we would get into a very, very difficult slide that will require detailed knowledge of an incredible number of things around the country. But let me say that I have no problem at all understanding all the Red Isaacs saying about how this is perceived by the individual in Bamble. I received many enquiries from people in Bamble, from the political environment as well, on this matter, so it's obvious that there has been a case that many in Bamble and Borderland have felt strongly, strongly for. However, there are very clear limitations on what a State Council should do in overcoming decisions taken at the best of two statesmen and of the Ministry of the Environment. So some more general considerations. The relationship between national interests and local self-government in planning and real administration raises important and difficult questions. Local self-government is important, but it is also important to take national interests into account. It may be difficult to draw the boundary between the local space for action and national interests in each case. There are no clear limits either – as this case fully illustrates. Under the new Planning and Building Act, municipalities retain responsibility for the planning and handling of individual items. The plans shall be adopted by democratic decision after broad participation. The new law gives municipalities new opportunities and better tools to ensure good and long-term planning, where all interests are carefully assessed. The provisions on participation in the levelling work have been reinforced, including for groups requiring special organisation. The principle of universal design has been incorporated more strongly into the law, including: in the purpose paragraph. It is now clearer than before that of the law that the municipality is obliged in planning to take care of national and regional interests. The county, county and other state professional authorities shall be involved in the planning process and shall ensure that overall interests are safeguarded. They may, if necessary, raise objections to draft plans which do not comply with national and regional objectives and may appeal against derogations. If objections are raised to plans that are not resolved locally during the planning process, the matter must be decided by the Ministry. Where the county lodges a complaint for a waiver, the case is decided by a settlement party. There has been a general construction ban in the 100 meter belt along the sea since 1965. The ban has been continued and reinforced in the new law. The considerations underlying the ban have now been directly incorporated into the law. It appears that particular attention should be paid in the coastal zone to the natural and cultural environment, outdoor life, landscapes and other general interests. In other words, the public interest shall weigh heavily in relation to the expansion interests in the coastal zone. What I come to now is relevant to this matter. Exemptions from the building ban in the 100-metre belt provide an unfortunate piece of bit for bit development in national and regionally important areas. That's why we want to avoid it. The issue of development needs to be considered through a long-term and comprehensive plan. It is also necessary to look at alternative options in order to meet the need for development. It's not always necessary to build right on the edge of the beach. If construction is drawn away from the sea, the nearby beach areas will be kept open to the delight of all, not least the municipality's own inhabitants. I am not familiar with whether the municipality of Bamble has created such a plan. Planning shall assess and coordinate all interests related to the use of the areas. There are often conflicting interests in such cases, and the measures may conflict. Careful evaluations are therefore important before decisions are taken. Røe Isaksen mentions in particular health and social conditions in land management. He has previously addressed this, in a question in Stortinget's Question Time on 21 October 2009, which was answered by the Minister of Research Tora Aasland in my absence. She then pointed out that in the odelstingsproposition of the new Law on Planning and Building, the rules on exemption were commented on. It has been stated that in cases where there are very special social medical, personal and human considerations, emphasis may be placed on this. At the same time, it is emphasised that such considerations do not normally have a decisive influence on exemptions under the Planning and Building Act. This means that dispensation issues need to be considered in a concrete manner on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the circumstances of the site in question. My answer to the interpellant’s question is that local self-government and health and social conditions can be given weight in land management, but these considerations must be weighed against other interests, including: national interests in the coastal zone. Thus, national interests in the coastal zone are not the interests of the State but the public interest in being able to travel in the coastal zone and the interest of future generations of access to the coastal zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e465	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for also mentioning the specific matter, although a little of my intention was to try to draw up a larger discussion on the planning and building law and the possibilities there. But I think that the Council of State mentions the specific matter, also illustrates a little bit of the point. It is such that the Council of State, which is not directly part of the legislative assembly, but the Council of State does not have local knowledge of the area. I don't expect that either. There is no state council that is superhuman, and that knows all of Norway as its own pocket. I could spend a lot of time describing this specific area in Telemark, just as a representative from More and Romsdal or Buskerud or Akershus or Vestfold could describe specific areas in their municipality. That's precisely why the overall point is that more local self-government is of the good. I am, as I also mentioned, pleased that the new Planning and Building Act has clarified that health and social considerations can be taken into account. I think it was a great weakness in the previous law that it was impossible to take that kind of consideration – at least it was the county's assessment in many places. If the law has been sufficiently strengthened, I'm skeptical about it. I have to say that I think it's strange, or even sad, to see that in many cases it seems that the systems and rules have become so rigid that there is no room in the apparatus to take into account individuals. Then I have a concrete challenge for the Council of State when he says that in this case it was not possible or desirable for him as the Council of State to go in and try out two bodies, that is, the County Council of Telemark and the County Council of East Agder. Helen Bjørnøy, the predecessor of the Council of State, did just that as Minister of Environmental Protection. It was on the basis of a matter in the Rogaland County, which was also concerned with arranged housing, about universal design – but this time not in the 100-metre belt, the case concerned soil protection. The Council of State went into the matter in a concrete way and tried to convince the county council. If she overestimated her own department's assessments, I don't know anything about it, but at least she went in and changed the case for the benefit of the person who wanted to expand. Does the Council of State think that his predecessors made a mistake when she went into this single matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e474	I'm also familiar with the general conditions in Bamble. I was there many times in connection with the Langesund accident, and what an amazingly beautiful nature and incredible coastline that is there, we quickly agree on. Getting into a single case requires something quite different from the general knowledge of an area. It requires a thorough examination of the one case. It'll deserve the individual it's about. It also deserves the municipality, and they deserve the case handlers of the two statesmen who, at best, have tried to handle the matter. All the experience with individual things is that the more you dig in them, the more layers and more knowledge come up. So that's a hard thing. Of course, there is no general answer to whether a State Council should address individual matters. It might be quite right to do it in one case, and not in the other. But that's something that has to happen in special cases. It must always require considerable knowledge of the matter and a lot of work on it, so that the decisions of a Council of State do not become very arbitrary. That is why I have not gone into this matter, but I am proud of the professional assessments made by two statesmen and a very good official in the Ministry of the Environment. Having said that, I agree with Mr. Røe Isaksen that social considerations must weigh on such matters. I don't think we have many parallel things around the coast, so there'll be great danger to a series of similar things. I would like to strongly encourage, among other things: say here, that health and social considerations should be given greater emphasis when municipalities are going through such matters, but also when county officials and others are going to deal with them. It's absolutely central. Of course, it is not the case that due to a health injury or disability you should be given a completely different treatment than anyone else would have. Nobody wants in the organisations of people with disabilities either. What they want is non-discrimination, but in some cases non-discrimination may lead to special consideration for a person with a health injury or disability, because you cannot have equal conditions unless you have a special advantage in specific cases. So if anything can come out of this case, at least it would be encouraging that such considerations be taken into account in the local work. Let me finally say that this with planning is absolutely central. That's also a point where I hope we can agree. It is clear that if the municipalities make a thorough plan and assess where in the coastal zone they think it can be developed for different reasons, while elsewhere it is not to be developed, a completely different basis is given to ensure that the combination of interests of individuals and the overall consideration of the next generation and the general public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e485	The theme that the interpellant brings up is a repetition in this room, and it's not without a reason. Land management is often conflict-affected and, in particular, conflicts can arise when national interests lead municipalities and reduce municipal autonomy. For the building ban in the 100-metre belt is, of course, a restriction on local democracy, just like other types of land protection, as the designation of municipal transfers is, and as statutory rights and many other schemes are. So it's important for us who are hot defenders of the 100 meter belt, to recognize that it involves restraints. But there are values that are so important that constraints are right. People's access to the sea and the beach area is such a value. It seems to be many today who believe that all-man rights, people's access to nature, mountains and seas, have almost come by themselves. But it's been a campaign of values for decades. There have been contradictions between private ownership and the public. Then I have a great deal of understanding that the interpellant travels the single thing that he described in his post. Without knowing it well, after hearing the interpellant, my perception is that the possibility of including health and social issues in the assessment under the new Planning and Building Act is just for such matters. That's why this opening was given. But more generally, the right and right parties have placed themselves differently from the Workers' Party in the fight for people's access to the sea. So the interpellant said something about it being almost impossible to use local discretion. When we created the new Planning and Building Act two years ago, it was firmly stated that the municipalities should still have the planning responsibility themselves, of course. We also suggested that we have to have differentiated beach zone management, so that it is easier to make adjustments and expand, not only in the kind of things that the interpellant describes, but also to drive business development where there is less pressure – precisely because we don't know the whole country. But the situation at the time was such that there was massive expansion in the beach zone, among other things. Here in Oslo, which I represent, based on exemptions. It was an unsustainable situation. The construction ban does not mean that there is no room for local discretion, or that there is no place that you can build as much as a little nudity. But we wanted the municipal disposal of the beach zone into plans, back into the plan, so that the beach zone would not be managed bit by bit in such a way that the exemptions were about to become the main tool. I hope that right there also agrees. It is clear that we are at a difficult point of intersection when municipalities are required to take national responsibility. That's true in the beach zone, and we've also seen it in a number of protective items. I believe that it is rather naive to believe that municipalities will take on their own initiative the burden that sometimes it can be to manage national values on behalf of the big society. Therefore, national leadership is needed; national guidelines are needed. But nevertheless, it is important that it is done in a sensible way and with as much local anchoring and influence as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e500	It's an important thing that the interpellant brings up here today. In Norway we have a coastline of 83,000 km. It corresponds to more than twice the circumference of the earth at the equator. Historically, the coast has had a major impact on people's living conditions, nutrition, housing and leisure. Coastal management is therefore a matter of great commitment, affecting a large proportion of the population. Unfortunately, the matter that the interpellant raises here today is not individual. Had this been an exceptional matter, an isolated matter, one might see it a little mildly, but it is unfortunately such in many parts of the country that this is the rule more than the exception for how matters are handled. Now the state council talked about Oslofjord and how important it is to regulate there. Now it is that the land is more than Oslofjorden. What's a wrong starting point here is that you take rules that might fit the Oslo Earth, and implement them in the rest of the country in exactly the same way. The rules and tightening proposed by the Government have led to an uprising around the coast. It's a unison rebellion, actually, from Oslofjord to Finnmark. Let me take an example from my own home country, Hordaland. There it is that all coastal municipalities, with one exception, are located in the strictest zone, in line with the Oslofjorden. In Hordaland, this has led to a cross-political rapporteur's insurrection against the government's policy. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 7 September 2009, a group of rapporteurs from these municipalities in Hordaland – from all the parties – use words such as ‘overrun’ and ‘war declaration’, ‘overtramp’ and ‘overtramp’ on the Government’s proposals. In fact, it is not a single rapporteur in these municipalities who supports the proposal put forward by the Government. It is rare to get a cross-political protest of this kind against a sitting government, but it is clear that in this case. Then it sounds a little strange when the Council of State praises and talks so warmly about this law and how well it will be for the municipalities. It is quite obvious that these coastal municipalities do not experience it in the same way as the Council of State is presenting here. The consequence of this contraction is too many municipalities, and especially island municipalities, that necessary growth and development are suffocated. Let me take an example is from the municipality of Meland in North Hordland. Through a thorough local process, as called for by the Council of State, a plan has been drawn up for a hotel building with 220 beds, the development of tourist paths and a great sea-side experience centre. The project will create new jobs and activities in the municipality. But the county was negative to hotels by the sea and has announced that the plans will now be discussed with the Ministry of the Environment, and is taking steps to stop this. In the worst cases, this positive project, which will contribute to jobs and activity in a coastal municipality, is now at risk of being completely stopped. Then there is not so much help with thorough local evaluations as the Council of State is talking about here. Because it is precisely one of the issues that is the problem today, that you have these thorough evaluations locally, you have long planning processes, and when you have finished them and come to the goal – all parties have been heard, everyone has their opinion, and you have had a local, democratic process – the county comes in and says no, and so the projects are scrambled. That's it, this override of local democracy, the government will have more of it. When Navarsete State Council visited Hordaland in December 2009, she received clear messages about what the Government should do, from these municipalities and from other actors in the state. I would like to quote one of them, Professor Frank Aarebrot – a rather libertarian professor and otherwise a confessing labour party member. I quote from the article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 December 2009 from this meeting: ‘– Blindleia and Oslofjord are quite different from the West. Here we've been building naust for 100 years. This is all galimatias, Professor Frank Aarebrot concluded. [[...]] You can agree with the heart in some of these reviews of Frank Aarebrot. That's wise and good words. When he talks hot about the Progress Party, we know that he means it, because otherwise he would hardly have said it. And should the government, despite all the protests from the coast, nevertheless adopt these restraints, we can at least hope that Aarebrot will get right in his prediction that the voters will then flow to the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e526	This is a case where the county council has tried out a municipal decision in the case of the 100-meter belt. Lack of respect for local democracy, rages Right, and gets the support of the Advance Party, and then the principle becomes even more hollow. Because it is clear that care for local democracy stands up against other principles, such as: the principle of compliance with the laws. The question is not whether the decisive factor in coastal zone policy, both for the Right and the Advance Party, is primarily the concern of the landowners. Here, Røe Isaken pushes a single example with a disabled man in front of him, a matter that can immediately be easy to feel sympathy with. But as he also says, politics should not be shaped on such individual matters. There are often good arguments for the individual exemption. It is particularly difficult, since there are already dwellings in areas where we want the beach zone liberated in the future. It may be bitter, but it's completely viable to live more than 100 meters from the beach. When the county council says no, it means very often – it is my experience as a local politician – that after that, despite protests, good solutions are found, all of which are well-satisfied with. So for over 40 years we've had a ban on building in the 100 meter belt. There are a number of municipalities that have opted out of the ban and have opened up a number of exemptions, but it was never intended that the exemption would undermine Norwegian law and public rights. The provisions of the law are to re-establish respect for the law and the prohibition of building in the coastal zone. In this way, I react a little when it is said from several people here that the municipalities have obligations to follow up a national policy. Municipalities are equally obliged to follow the rights of the public, the individual citizen, who does not own coastal zone areas in the municipality. There have always been limitations on ownership. All rights have been an old right. In expanse, anyone can fertilize, pick berries and mushrooms. A landowner does not have the right to build where he will, sail if it is his own plot. So you could imagine a change in all-man's rights towards more privatisation, which could make the landowner let so many visits to his property. But on the other hand, it would also hinder his own free movement. And that's the background of all-man rights, that society serves on common use of open-air areas. It will cost a lot to shut people out of the right to go skiing in the woods a winter day and to be able to pick mushrooms or look up the tent on the mountain. Everyone's right is a restriction of ownership that everyone serves. But it has changed over time, and in particular we have experienced that the areas of the beach zone have become scarce. Despite a 40-year ban on the construction of the 100-metre belt, a beach zone similar to the Oslo–Polar Circle has been developed. It is the local authorities’ failed practice to grant exemptions that is the main reason. It has reduced public rights, most strongly where the demand for such access has been highest, i.e. in the press areas, and then we talk, for example. on Westfold and the South Coast. As long as it was natural enough and no one was denied travel, there was no great need to clarify public rights. It has been so long that it has been affordable for many Northmen to get a cabin along the coast as well. It's been natural enough to take off. There has always been a place to get to the water to bathe. This is why Norway has been extremely vulnerable to the beach in the press areas, unlike policies in countries such as the United Kingdom. Sweden. My experience is that there is a thorough procedure in the county. The very economy of land in the coastal zone, which often allows the counterparty to run long legal proceedings, means that there is a very thorough procedure. And that means that local knowledge is as thorough in the county's case handlers as in the municipality's politicians. I can agree with the Red Isaac that it is important to provide disabled access to the beach zone. Access to the beach area also means that people with disabilities should have access to it, and therefore it is important to facilitate through the construction of coastal paths, etc. But the strict provisions of the Law on Planning and Building are, in my view, a victory for respect for law and order and for the historical rights of the little man and woman in the outfield.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e547	The interpellant raises an interesting debate on the relationship between local democracy on the one hand and overall national interests on the other. But I have to admit that I think the starting point for the interpellation was a little strange. At the outset, the Interpellant claims that, as a general rule, the new Law on Planning and Building reduces the municipality's right to rule over its areas in some areas. Yes, it is true that the exemption access was restricted, and it is correct that the building ban in the 100 meter belt along the sea was tightened, but it is only a limited part of what the new planning and building law is really about. And in this little story, I also find it strange that the only alternatives the municipality could find were either a 100-metre seat belt or a ‘prison cell’ of an apartment, as it was said. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have consistently argued that the new Law on Planning and Building strengthens the central power against local democracy. That's wrong. The new Law on Planning and Building does the opposite. The new law makes the local space of action visible in a much more transparent and clear way than the old law. Through the new system through local and regional planning programmes, greater emphasis on the community dimension of the municipal plan with opportunities for a local, overall, thoughtful and not least comprehensive spatial strategy, which in turn forms the basis for a part of the municipal plan that points forward in time, the basis for a good governance tool for local policymakers is also laid. Local politicians have been provided with a tool to increase their political governance opportunities over their own municipality, which increases their ability to ensure sustainable development, both environmentally, socially, economically and culturally, as they themselves wish to have it, in the best possible way adapted to individual communities and individuals living there. So when the interpellant asks how the Council of State can help focus on local self-government and local authority in land management, it's a wrong question. The question is how local politicians themselves facilitate local political governance, how they themselves are able to use the new tool in the new Planning and Building Act. One of the most important changes to the new law is the changes to the rules of objection. The old law created a lot of frustration — yes — when long local planning processes with a single pen stroke were zeroed out of an objection or two or three or five entirely at the back of a planning process, objections from different government sector authorities, which could actually crack in all directions. But it doesn't go any further according to the new law. One of the most important changes concerns precisely restrictions on access for, among others. State budgets to promote objections to local plans. They may no longer raise objections to matters decided on by a previous objection in the last 10 years; they may not raise objections to the facts which might have raised objections earlier in the proceedings. But the most important thing is the new obligation put in place for everyone who has an interest in a planning process: they have to set up early and participate in the planning process from the start. All contentious substances shall be placed on the table at an early stage. The States must establish their competences and assist the municipalities. This may include, inter alia: be a major advantage for small municipalities with low planning capacity. And the raisin in sausage: if the general authorities neglect and do not participate, they lose the right to raise objections at a later stage in the process. As a result of these changes, the new Law on Planning and Building shifts power from the state bureaucracy to the municipal politicians, on one condition: that the municipal politicians really seize the opportunity that lies there, ceases to see plans as a tool of administration to limit the political space and take power into their own hands. Good plans in your own municipality provide the best management tool for local democracy. The new Planning and Building Act provides the necessary tool to achieve this. It is not by chance that the new law was almost unanimously welcomed from Kommune-Norway. An important lesson from the small history of Røe Isaksen must be that the municipalities are now immediately starting to apply the new law on planning and building, starting work on, for example: a municipal sub-plan for the universal design of the community, including access to universally designed housing in the municipality, because it is actually the responsibility of municipal politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e562	If you choose to look at the Law on Planning and Building as a sausage, I think we can at least see that very few rapporteurs or local politicians find many raisins. The representative of the Red Isaac addresses an important individual matter and an important principle. Let me take the individual matter first, which is strong in content, and which appears to be a regrettable example of a virtually incomprehensible bureaucratic attitude. I think it is a pity that the Council of State has not manned itself up to go into and override this matter. I noticed what the government itself said, that many things like the one -- which is one of the two starting points for this interpellation -- we probably don't have, and we probably won't. This is precisely why it must also be possible in a country as bureaucratic as Norway that politicians see the actual content, cut through and make a sensible decision. And it would be a sensible decision to meet the need of the person who needs it in this case. Then to the principal. Unfortunately, there is no doubt, in the view of the Progress Party, that the new Planning and Building Act reduces local autonomy and local discretion. When you listen to the Council of State answers, where Oslofjorden is used as a reference framework, you can wonder if the Council of State knows where the West is. It's a piece from Langesund. There is a coastal uprising just now against a law and against a bill that imposes strong restrictions on local self-government and local discretion. It is that many of the local government officials across the country actually have quite good competence in sensible management and a sensible management just off our coastline. Fortunately, those of us who want greater autonomy and greater use of local authority have good allies. Among other things, I have I noticed from December last year that the centre party leader and municipal minister Liv Signe Navarsete are among them. She demands major changes in her own government's proposal for beach zone law. She says something such as that the West – which I naturally care about as a magnificent representative from Hordaland – consists largely only of the beach zone and the mountains. ‘Should not a few use this, there is not much left,’ says the Minister of State – perhaps not necessarily surprising tones from a centre party politician from Coast Norway, but it is the Minister of State who comments on the Government’s own coastal zone legislation. ‘The draft has to be changed’, says Navarsete – and I still quote from what she went through NTB, among other things. in December last year — ‘to avoid coastal conflicts’. [[...]] The question is whether the Minister for the Environment agrees with the Minister for the Environment that we need to have a completely different code, and that we need to see the difference between the Oslo soil and the coastline and the coastal zone along the whole coast. In these days, Prime Minister Stoltenberg implements the plans from the New Year's Eve. The government is ready for major consultation with the Norwegian people. For the most part, local elected representatives have given clear advice through a political uprising in the coastal zone – advice from rapporteurs and local politicians from the vast majority of parties. The Council is very clear, they will rule more themselves, they will not be overruled. So they give clear advice that the coast looks different than the inner Oslo Earth. The question will then be whether the Government, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and the Minister for the Environment will increase local self-government, or centralize the governance of the country's long-range coast across the population and across the board of local elected politicians. We hope that the first thing is possible, and we hope that we will also receive help from the Workers' Party's own representatives in this Chamber. I have noticed that a colleague from Hordaland, Per Rune Henriksen from the Workers' Party, believes in a beach zone, and that the department will realize that it is wrong to treat large parts of Hordaland like Oslofjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e577	Let me say that I am happy that the Council of State specifies that health and social aspects should be taken into account in various matters. If you're going to achieve something concrete, which I think it's worth doing even when it's a majority government, let that be what's left. Because although there may be a few cases, there are still important cases. I have to drop the representatives from SV and the Workers' Party a couple of visits. After all, even though the municipalities have an offer for disabled people – it would only be lacking – they want to exchange housing as they exchange socks. One has to ask if the term ‘100 years in the family’ means something. It's not like this is just a question of whether you have a dwelling available. At least for me, and I assume for the vast majority of the representatives here in the hall, it means that you grow up in your childhood home. A building is not just a building, it's also an empty one, a house, a home for a family. I think the representative from the Workers' Party ignores that, thus representing some kind of system thinking at its worst. I also think it is quite eye-catching that the representative of SV in Vestfold talks about areas where there are dwellings, but that ‘we want’ to be ‘freed in the future’. I look forward to the representative clarifying on another occasion how to release areas where there are homes today, and what kind of policy SV has to pursue people away from their homes, which incidentally lies where SV wants to have free areas. I fully agree with the representative from Vestfold that it is possible to live more than 100 meters away from the beach and the sea, but that is not the point. The point is that if you first live there, you have a land and a property there, politicians and the system must also take it into account. You can't bald and choose with people or people's property as you like, even if you're sitting on the Stortinget, and even if they're so unhappy to have a property in the beach zone. Finally, I would like to repeat that I am very pleased with the signal from the Council of State on how he perceives that the legislation will be practiced in the future. I am disappointed with the signals, or the reasoning, from the parties, both the SV and the Workers' Party, here in the Chamber. They act as the system's defenders, have little confidence in local self-government and little confidence in having the opportunity to take human considerations into account in the system as well. Finally, I would like to remind you that when the market boundary in Oslo has stood so firm for many years, it is because there has been a clear and stable majority locally in Oslo to have the mark limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e593	I want to start by giving Røe Isaksen honor to take up a difficult and important matter. It is a difficult matter, the balance between the personal, private considerations that must and should be addressed in individual cases, against the general interest of the public in the coastal zone, and the consideration that future generations will be allowed to experience the same beach zone as we have experienced. Here are the difficult questions and the difficult dilemmas, and I think they have been addressed in a neat and proper way. It is far more than I can say about the Progress Party, where we do not hear one word about public interests in the coastal zone, and not one word about future generations, and still not one word about all the important considerations that must be taken into account in such a case. What we hear, on the contrary, is that Norway is the most miserable country in the world. I am so tired of a political party that makes it a struggle to blackmail the country in which you are a national and a resident. Norway is not a special ‘bureaucratic country’, as it was highlighted here, on the contrary, the UN just came up with an index of so-called ‘failed states’, or in Norwegian: fallen, invulnerable states. Norway came to the bottom of it, we were the number. 190 on the United Nations List of Fallen States. Everyone understands that there is no. 1st@item: inlistbox If I'm going to give advice to the Progress Party, it's to stop black-painting the country you live in, and start to see something positive in Norway. One of the positive things we have in Norway is a very competent central government and a great ability to find local solutions on important issues. The reason why there are so few issues that come to the Ministry of the Environment in these areas is that almost always a local solution is found. The dialogue between the county councils and the municipalities, to which Egeland and Marthinsen and others were involved, works very well. They almost always agree, and that's giving and taking, one finds a solution that takes care of both the general considerations, which the county is set to care for, and the local considerations. And then in a few things you don't agree -- I don't know the exact numbers, but maybe 50 a year -- that come from all over the country to the Ministry of the Environment. So the truth is that this essentially works well. So finally, we have sent out to the hearing a matter of differentiated beach zone policy. Its purpose is precisely to take different account in Oslofjord and along the south coast, unlike Sogn and Fjordane and Finnmark and the north coast, because there is a difference. I am aware that it has met a good deal of counter-representation, especially in Hordaland, but there is a hearing where we shall now hear the views before the final decision is taken. There's a dilemma here, and it's that a lot of municipalities along the hordeland coast have large accessible areas where there won't be any major problems with expansion, but they also have tiny areas within their own municipality where the expansion pressure will take some of the gems from people. So we're going to try to find a balance in this both at country level and within each municipality, and that's exactly why we're going to have to have a planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e606	Then there's case no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e612	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e632	Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on case No. 2 has already been adopted for consideration in a later meeting. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-09.ana.ud1959e665	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
