ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e26	The representative, Mr Halleraker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e29	On behalf of the representatives of Ingerd Schou, Siri A. Meling, Gunnar Gundersen, Trond Helleland, Frank Bakke Jensen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal on funding options for investment projects in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e34	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e37	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vokskesen and myself, I have the honour to make proposals to introduce concrete targets for what is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e42	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e45	On behalf of the big business representatives Ulf Leirstein, Hans Olav Syversen, Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make suggestions to improve the arrangements for private pension savings and housing savings for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e72	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kristin Halvorsen State Council Terje Riis-Johansen State Council Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e91	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. In winter, businesses and households have experienced sky-high electricity prices. The industry is struggling, which NRK could report at the latest yesterday, when businesses in central Norway are starting to fear the electricity bills. The power industry is also getting a bad reputation. In previous Questionnaires, we've addressed the topic many times. We have been confirmed by the Government that there are no measures, either to help people with the power bill or to help the power balance in the short term. Let me therefore see today whether the Government can do anything for some parts of the power industry in the longer term. There is a great potential for expanding renewable energy in Norway. Especially within hydropower, there are many good projects that need relatively little stimulation, but still a little, in order to be triggered. In that case, trust between industry and the authorities is important. There has been a long time to introduce a scheme of green certificates. This will stimulate investment, for example: in small power plants. This was already the case during the Bondevik administration, and in order to prevent the small power industry from getting on the fence pending the final adoption of a scheme, the then Minister of Energy Einar Steensnæs promised that everyone who invested after 1 January 2004 would be included in the scheme of green certificates when it came into place. It triggered a lot of investments, because people felt confident that a political promise had been made, and that they would get into a scheme, so they didn't have to sit and wait for the investments. The Government submitted its order on 26 November 2009. Then suddenly small-scale power plants, built-in from 1 January 2004, have been removed from the system. Only new power plants from now on will be included, and approx. 120 power plant builders feel cheated. It's not just those that go beyond this. It goes beyond an entire industry, which feels tricked. Will the Council of State change its breach of promises, introduce a system that takes care of the promises made by former Minister of Energy Steensnæs, so that confidence between investors and authorities is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e106	It is wrong what the representative Solvik-Olsen says, that I should need to repair the lifting breach. What has now been done in the process of Sweden around green certificates is offensive, and it will provide new opportunities for the small and renewable industries when this market enters into force. So this is a powerful tool. It is true that there has been a discussion about transitional arrangements and what should be done in relation to power plants that were built up before September 2009. But it is not right, what the representative says, that there are no arrangements for small power plants. There are arrangements for the smallest small power plants. This means that they are given the opportunity to enter the certificate market, sail if they had built up before this agreement was concluded, and before we have reached 1 January 2012. So the premise for the question is wrong. There's no breach of promise from this government here. It is possible for the smallest small power plants to enter, and we get a very good solution for small power plants in general when this system comes into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e113	Rarely have I been more provoked by an answer in this room. Small-scale power plants are per year. definition between 1 MW and 10 MW power plants. In the transitional regime submitted by the Government, these have not been included from 1 January 2004, they shall be included as from September 2009 at the earliest. The industry doesn't even believe in that, because they were, after all, promised to join from 2004, and this decision that the Council of State is talking about will be made at the earliest in Stortinget in 2011. So the trust here is completely broken. When the government itself presented a big message on four pages — ironically, it was meant to be — it said that power generation up to 3 MW would be part of a transitional system. So now it's down to 1 MW. That means that 2 TWh with power is not included. This isn't necessarily just a problem for them, but it's a problem for the whole industry, which now sits on the fence, don't dare to invest, because the promise after the government promises is broken. Then I ask again: will the government reverse this breach of promises towards the small power industry, i.e. those who have built out 1 to 10 MW power plants, and make sure that it is implemented, or is this enough a biodiesel business?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e120	I can repeat what I said about what I have said about this matter, and what is the story of green certificates in general. On the question raised by the representative to re-examine this matter, the answer is no, and this matter has also been notified in the form of a letter to the Stortinge regarding the limitations of the transitional regime on small-scale power. Nor do I agree with the representative of Solvik-Olsen in his claim that what has now happened has led to a standstill and almost apathy in the industry. There's a lot of activity in the industry now, there's a lot of interest in expanding. What we're doing around green certificates is a fantastic stimulus to the small-scale power industry and will contribute to the development of projects and to the development of renewable energy in the Norwegian market. So I disagree with the entrance. I believe that this particular case is a good case for the renewable industry and shows that the Government wants something in terms of both small and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e125	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Henning Skumsvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e128	It's not just in the small power industry that people feel cheated. Even in the wind power industry, there have been problems with constantly changing framework conditions. Statoil's chief of new energy, Alexandra Bech Gjørv, expressed great frustration over this in today's business 12 January this year. She pointed out that many companies have used considerable resources to develop power projects, but that the framework conditions are missing when you arrive at the time of investment. In the same article, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre said that he thinks it would be strange if Norway were to use even more resources to build renewable energy, since Norway has so much renewable energy. This creates further uncertainty in the industry, and among many actors, doubts arise as to whether a green certificate market is actually being created in 2012. Can the Council of States resolve any doubts by guaranteeing the introduction of green certificates from 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e135	The processes we are now going with Sweden in relation to green certificates are good, and we have progress as expected in relation to implementation on 1 January 2012. In this way, I am very pleased with what has happened since Maud Olofsson and I signed the agreement in September 2009. So we're working on the goal we've set for this to be implemented on 1 January 2012. When it comes to wind, I've previously said from this pulpit that wind is the area of renewables where I'm least satisfied with development. What we have seen on the wind side is that a factor that is quite essential to the rate of expansion – and I wish we could agree on that in this Chamber – is a combination of the increased costs and what happened around the financial crisis in 2009. It helped investors to be cautious about going into large investments, and it has helped to make wind investments later than I would like to. But we spend a lot of money, we spend a lot of money on wind bets now as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e142	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e146	A few weeks ago, I was contacted by some landowners at Ualand, in the municipality of Lund in Rogaland, who have the opportunity to expand small power for about 20 million. kr. They wondered if I thought it was smart that they did it, and if they could expect to receive the support that has been available in relation to green certificates. I wish I could say, yes, go ahead, because we need all the energy we can get, and we need jobs, we need those who landowners and farmers to strengthen their livelihoods. But unfortunately I couldn't say that, I had to say no. Had it been my money, I would not have dared to invest them until I actually saw what was going on in 2012. And why would I have to give that answer? Well, when a cross-political collapse says it will take effect from 1 January 2004, and there is uncertainty about who gets, and whether they get at all, and if they get started, I can't call anyone to spend their savings on investing in small power. What will the Council of State do to bring peace, optimism and the desire to invest in small power in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e153	I find it difficult to see that I can do something more than now to ensure that the good process we have with Sweden – which is going on the technical adaptation to legislation, the design of a framework for the market itself – is going well, as it is now. The great framework, the political framework, around it was laid last year, and then we have a not insignificant job in relation to the technical, which is, of course, extensive, because the energy markets of two countries are going to work together. But I mean the best signal I can give to the industry, the best message I can give, is that this is going for the time being absolutely as it should. Progress is good, and we have a common plan, and that's 2012. Which advice the representative Meling chooses to give, I can't really interfere so much with and think so much about. It must be the representative's own choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e158	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e161	I think it is bad to hear the Council of State today, which is misleading the Storting against what it has been politically agreed on, that small power plants that had started construction after 1 January 2004 would be allowed to participate in the green certificate market. So there are 150 small power plants built after 2004. These are proud of the Government. They are proud of what has been said about the framework conditions, and they have made great investments. There is a lot of money and many hours that have been laid down. The government clarified this to Stortinget as late as 2006, and then came this press release at the end of last year, which set a production ceiling. The Council of State has replied to the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen that he will not re-examine the matter. But my question is: Has the government changed the energy policy according to its own wishes, or is it the Swedish government that has pushed the government into this breakup?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e170	No, I think the representative Hemdal also knows that the transitional regime is a national matter, so of course it is not something that the Swedish government has pushed the Norwegian government to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e175	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e178	My question goes to Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen. The drop-out in secondary education is one of the most serious problems of the welfare society. One in three young people does not complete. Worst is the situation in the professional sector. Most of them are those who, after two years at school, do not receive an offer of apprenticeship, as they are suggested – because there are not enough apprenticeship places. In an interview with the Evening Post recently, the Council of State promises an improvement in the absence in three years. With the problems we have in terms of non-response, this is a very defensive goal. The otherwise friendly newspaper Nordlys wrote in the lead place before the weekend that it is a shame that the government is defeating increasingly new young people, and the newspaper criticises the government for doing too little. This government is responsible for the highest top-ranking salaries in the state — while the government provides bottom-up for apprentices in the state. It is now four years since Kristin Halvorsen's predecessor, former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal of the Socialist Left Party, said he was ashamed of the state's greedy apprentice effort. In the meantime, the number of apprentices in the country has been further reduced, from 690 in 2006 to 382 in 2009. By comparison, Bergen has only 200 apprentices. Better access to apprenticeship places is essential to reduce the drop-out rate in secondary education. Does the Council of State agree that the State's apprenticeship effort is even worse today than in 2006, and will the Council of State ensure that the State celebrates for its own door and provides significantly more apprenticeship places from coming school in the autumn of 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e197	I'm very happy to have this question. It's because the most important thing I've been going to do in the next few years is just to bring down the dropout in high school. We know a lot about what works, but we need an even stronger grip on that effort. That is why I have already invited all the heads of state schools in the country to join a parallel of the Barnehagel promise, namely systematic cooperation between the state, the counties and other actors – with full ‘driving’ to bring down the drop-off from secondary education. Through an untraditional cooperation between state and local authorities, we were given full childcare coverage – through an untraditional and stronger approach between the state and the counties, we can reduce the drop-out rate in secondary education. My invitation to them is that we need a common statistical basis, because we count a little bit differently. We have to set clear targets for what we're going to achieve, so that the arrow goes down and we have clear targets for each state. And we have to have full 'driving' on the apprentices. I fully agree with Mr Aspaker that the public must take its share of that responsibility. This is why part of my approach to this is to make contact with all parts of the country – and with the municipalities – because we can offer apprenticeships in more areas than what we are doing today. It's a big waste in Norwegian society that we have such a big drop-out. The 30 pst. which does not complete is a composite group. Some of them have made a mistake – therefore advice is so important. Some of them strike in a trade or two, even though they have completed — it is therefore so important to support training at once. Some of them drop out, and we don't see them in a while. We know that we're going to need more secondary education in the future – there will be little room for those who only have primary education. That's why this is my most important case in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e212	The problem for the apprentices who need room for the harvest is that they need room for the harvest. And what I hear is that the council has a very good time. This is where monitoring is to be carried out, where it will work together, and many things will be done with the local government sector. The point is that the municipal sector is delivering. The local government sector has seen a large increase in the number of apprenticeship places. Those who don't do their job are actually the state. It can almost look as if those with the least social responsibility are the top leaders in the state, who don't take this seriously. For example, the municipal sector has: 50 pst in the field of health care. More apprenticeship places in the last two years – 2500 new places in that area alone. I'm calling for a far tougher grip from the Council of State in view of what's going to happen in the autumn – and the many young people who are going to stand without an apprenticeship, if not the Council of State is now taking action. It will not be able to monitor this year in the case of students without an apprenticeship in the coming harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e223	The representative Aspaker hears extremely poorly after all. We've had 30 pst. 15 years of absence from secondary education. We've put 'tired' on this right now. It is the most important task that we can have in relation to ensuring that the lowest possible number of people are expelled from the labour market. There are thus many measures, and there has never been such a ‘trafficking’ before to prevent future non-response. We need to work much more systematically — including in the public sector and in the state sector. I think the municipalities can also think that they can offer apprenticeships in areas other than what they are doing now, even though the municipalities are nice. The state has a lot of state businesses in all areas, and I'm going to go to every state council to get them to the skill we need to get more apprenticeships. Just a little comment about Nordlys: I'm a little surprised about them – it's not that long since I was in a meeting with the editorial board in Nordlys and was just talking about drop-outs in high school. We have some special challenges in the north, and especially Finnmark states have some special challenges in terms of non-response. So this is a particularly important cooperation with the three northernmost states.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e234	The President will be told that he believes that the Council of State should base the representations of the Stortinge to follow. However, there is an opportunity to take a different view of political issues. I think we will see more of that in this debate. Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e242	I record that the Minister of Knowledge wanted to hear all his government councils in relation to what part of the responsibility they take, and therefore my supplementary question is addressed to the Council of State Terje Riis-Johansen. The power industry is facing major investments in the future. This applies both to deployment and not least to the deployment of networks. That means that we will need a lot of skilled labour in the future. So my question to the Council of State is, what action will he take, or have he taken, to ensure recruitment through, among other things. to include apprentices in their own department, their own directorates and in the state enterprises for which the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e249	I understood primarily that the question from the representative Meling is about what is simply called fumigation in the power industry. And that's quite correct. A bit of a joke is said that the average age over a period has been one year higher for each passing year. There has been little recruitment to the power industry, I fully agree. I think some of the explanation for that is that industry has been considered to be very mature. There has been little new that has happened there. The previous investments have been maintained. Now we have a completely different situation. We have a lot of small power development, and we don't have a lot of exciting projects in terms of pumping, power driving and using the magazines in a completely different way than before. As far as those businesses are concerned, they are a bit on the outside of what I am specifically responsible for. But as the Minister of Knowledge just said, this is something that the entire Government is concerned about. I'm also going to make sure that the power industry increases awareness considering the importance of taking in apprentices, getting in young people. Last night I had just that message to the oil and gas industry at a meeting I had in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e258	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e261	My question then goes to the State Council Halvorsen. That much of the dropout in high school is because the student does not have a place to study is not an unknown matter. There's a very big shortage of apprenticeships, and the public is the one that's at least good at providing a place to teach. Now it seems that the minister has taken some action here. However, there is a need to think about new areas of learning and to be constructive. The Progress Party considers the possibility of replacing the one-year option at Vg3 with a two-year practical training course with professional guidance, using workshops – the kitchen or other practical rooms – in connection with student enterprises in the school for those who have not received a apprenticeship. The question then arises: Will the Minister facilitate the provision of an adequate apprenticeship for more students through two-year training in the creation of a school student enterprise with practical and professional guidance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e272	This is a good and interesting proposal. I think the most important thing is to make sure that the appeal to all businesses, both private and public, is about the following: Join us on the duel to get the most to complete advanced education. Set up with an apprentice slot. I notice that there is a great responsibility in the private sector, and I see that this is about their ability to have competent labour force in the future. It's better during this financial crisis than the last time Norway had a crisis. So this proposal that the representative of Thorsen now comes up with, has come. It's a budget question, but it's a way of looking at how we can manage to get a proper education for those who don't get a place to learn, so I'd like to get back to that. So I'm working on one more thing, and that's the question of legislating the right to a place of learning, and it really comes within this proposal of the Progress Party as well. Because apprenticeship is so crucial for completion, we have to make sure that we use all the tools to get the best out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e283	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e286	I think it's important that the emergency measures that the Council of State will achieve in the cooperation she has now invited to bring down the dropout, but I think it's also about doing some structural measures for the school and asking if the school is the way it should be when so many actually fall from. But I think, too, when we are talking about apprentices – and the Council of State mentions the word ‘dugnad’ – that many enterprises, with what is now in the Grand Council about a statutory right to apprenticeship, and the invitation to good that comes, feel that that is exactly what they are invited to: a volunteer. Because that's, now that the bottom line is difficult for many companies, apprentices it'll go off. My question is quite simple: would you consider doing something about the employer's fee in relation to the apprentices and with the grant that the companies actually receive to take care of the students they receive, so that this is not just about a voluntary effort that goes beyond the bottom line, but that the state is actually setting up in terms of the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e295	It's a pleasure that a lot of companies don't squander apprenticeships even though they have a little more demanding times than before. It's because many companies think very long-term, and they think they themselves have an interest in having access to good and competent labour in the future. So I'm very happy about that. With regard to support for apprenticeships, we have come to the conclusion that a grant is a better tool than a reduced employer’s fee. For example, Finnmark County would not enjoy a reduced employer’s fee for apprentices. But it's also a budgetary question, and I think the most important challenge that I can now give to private business is to continue the idea that very many people have of thinking in the long term and being with and taking responsibility for it. And then is the support and guidance that apprentices receive in relation to how they follow up the individual apprentice, which can also be a rather demanding challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e302	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e305	Last week, Fafo presented a report on the dropout in high school. At the presentation of that report, Gudmund Hernes, who made the report, delivered two bells to the Secretary of State, for he would hang the bells on the cat. In this context, the cat was the Council of State, because it is the Council of State that is responsible for the entire education cycle and for all the measures from the first class that have to be done to actually do something about the dropout. We in the Left have submitted a Document No. Eight proposals with a lot of measures. The councils are talking about a good deal here. So I have two questions. One is, is that skill also a political virtue for all the measures we can actually take to prevent school drop-out? The second question is, Did the Council of State get the bells?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e314	The bells are superfluous, but I didn't need them. That former ministers of knowledge underline the importance of the minister of knowledge, I appreciate it so much. The report from Hernes is very interesting, but it doesn't say much new about what the job is. It underlines what I've already taken up, that we really know a lot about what we have to do. We just need much more coordination of what we do, much stronger cooperation and much more force over the efforts. And I've already done that. Then, of course, I would like to accept good suggestions from the opposition as well. I very much agree with Trine Skei Grande that this work does not start in higher education. It doesn't even start in 1st grade. It starts in the kindergarten. It's about how we make sure that as many children as possible are included and encouraged to reach as far as possible. But I might say in particular that high school is a somewhat neglected school step that I want to focus much more on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e326	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e329	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. When the press release from the Ministry of Knowledge this week ticked into my e-mail, I knew that I was actually a bit touched. This is not often the case when press releases arrive. But I knew it was actually useful to hump. It's useful to have a lot of good things, even to a majority government that's often shown that it might not be entirely responsive to what the Storting has brought up. Because it was as the Council of State said in its last reply now: there's a message about youth. The forgotten step – something that both teachers, parents, students and the Christian People's Party have been taking up and masturbating in many years – is finally to be put on the agenda. The youth is the forgotten step, we have written in the Christian People's Party. No, say the government, we've remembered that. But in the press release we could now read that yes, that is the forgotten matter. Because I think it's incredibly important that we now be able to make high school a master's arena for the students. Today, this is a difficult step with anxiety, lack of discipline, a lot of theory, too little framework for good teaching. A school that I know of had to call a psychologist to "coache" both teachers and students so they could help them deal with all the behavioral challenges they had. All the money has been used incorrectly in the years this government has been sitting and running. Then my question is: do these new signals mean that you're finally going to put away the whole day's school project and rather create a school that you actually need? And will the Council of State and the Government, when they go to Torbjørnrud, actually put money in the pot to do something about the forgotten step, so that high school becomes a step that doesn't help push students out of school everyday, but that helps them to master and lead them into school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e342	I am very pleased if the press release from me can touch the representative Eriksen, and I hope that I can see several small steps forward. I have not seen the representative Eriksen's commitment to high school as gnawing. I've seen it as a real commitment to a school step that's very demanding. Fourteen are loving beings — and quite demanding in a high school that is not perceived as relevant in relation to the reality around them. What do we need this for, what are we going to apply to the Norwegian and to the math and to the English? There are some questions that go back to high school. And the cry for more practical opportunities to learn is very massive. We have now had some experiments in the field of employment as an opportunity to take up vocational training in high school. It's an alternative to another foreign language. We invited more people to try out from the next year of school. Then 230 municipalities reported. The majority of Norwegian municipalities will be involved. Unfortunately, we did not have the opportunity to say yes to everyone. But there is one headline: More possibility of practical teaching – not because the students need less theory, but because they need more relevance to how to learn theory. Then there are many who are asking for options. I think we need to re-examine that discussion – not because it should be possible to choose something that in some way does not count for the future, but we need to find some kind of electoral profession that is also involved in counting, which you are reaching for, and for which you have competence objectives. That's how I think we can get to a high school that's exciting and demanding, that's in touch with what's really young people, and that's motivating. I don't agree with the Christian People's Party that, in order to do that, we have to cut the number of hours in high school, because high school also provides the basis for high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e355	Now it's not about cutting in the number of hours, it's about stopping the race of always adding even more hours. But that's it now. I thank you for your answer and I am actually extremely pleased that the Council of State has put this on the agenda. I believe that when 230 municipalities report to an experiment with the labour market, they have seen this a long time ago. They're struggling with their schools. I know that I'm quite inspired to continue to masturbate – in other areas. Those who work in high school today may be some of the real heroes we have, because they've got a framework in which it's impossible to do their job. Then we see that now the government has put on the table a new teacher training. We can read in the class struggle today that the goal, to take a master and have only professional development, and not didactics and learn how to handle fortices and the challenges it brings, may be wrong. Will the youth message that is coming now also include the kind of competence that teachers who are actually going to work in high school need? Do you want to put this away that it's a master that's the only blessing, and give them more practice and more didactics?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e366	I have invited you to a slightly different way of making this message about high school. For example, I'm going to invite four groups of high school students, and not just those who feel that they're mastering high school the best. The students themselves must be involved and take responsibility for, and make suggestions on how to get to a more demanding and rewarding high school. Then I want to invite both teachers and parents to join in taking responsibility for changing their experiences to political proposals. Of course, if there are some weaknesses in the training we have now provided in terms of teacher training, we also accept views on it. But I think it's important for high school teachers that they're also very safe on the subjects they're going to teach. Making the subjects exciting, relevant, interesting and making use of e.g. Enterprises and research environments in the community are also concerned with having a good professional overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e373	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e376	Absence at high school and drop-out in high school are related. The government’s only action against high school so far has been to propose raising the absence of the closing diploma. The Christian People's Party believes that the problems in high school cannot be solved solely by asking the students to tighten up, nor does it solve the drop-off problem in high school. Instead, we believe that we must have a high school that is adapted not only to the theoretical strengths but also to the practical strengths of the students. We want the electoral professions back. We want to increase the allocation of quality development, and we want more professional groups to go to high school. Is the council ready to take far tougher and better steps to make high school a master's arena for all of our loving and demanding forts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e383	From me there comes a roaring yes to this. I'm very concerned that we're going to succeed. There are some paradoxical pictures I see here: if you see how eager a three-four-year-old is, and then you see the same kid as a thirteen-four-year-old, it's not necessarily the same knowledge and booze that characterizes the fourteenth. I don't think it's because fourteen are not interested. I think there are many more strings we can invite them to play on to get to a much more demanding and educational childhood. But focusing on absence is important. Unfortunately, too many young people believe that they can learn despite their high levels of absence. We know that an important indicator of secondary school dropout is high levels of absence at secondary school and poor knowledge, especially in Norwegian and math. So these areas we have to give much more attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e390	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e393	Now the government has been running for almost five years. At this time, young people have shown poor professional performance in relation to the countries with which they compete. There are weak results in many subjects, except reading. We have a school that is characterized by anxiety and lack of discipline. In real science, in particular, we have teachers with poor background skills, which in total is an important reason for the drop-out in high school. Distinguishing number 44 for 2008-2009 was to be the mother of all school policy respondents, who were to address the knowledge nation of Norway. Before it is finished in Stortinget, we are told that there is a need for a new high-school survey report – something special. However, the objective should be both a more practical secondary school and a more demanding secondary school. I fully agree with that. But how is SV, with its resistance to differentiation, going to do both of these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e400	Usually, the representative Tord Lien is a bit more optimistic in his description of the Norwegian school. I actually think that's an important point. There is an incredible amount of good work going on in Norwegian school. There's an incredible amount of good work going on in high school. There are a lot of people who get good results, and I've given myself a slogan, and it's that I'm going to bring out everything that's positive, and not "deep" a sector with the challenges it has. It's all about encouraging good forces, and it's about presenting the school as a job that maybe is one of the most challenging, demanding and fun things you can imagine, because we need more people to choose the teaching profession in the future. Then we don't have to differentiate or introduce old curricula. The old syllabus was dropped because young people who had the potential to get further relaxed with an too low syllabus. There's no reason. Nevertheless, we should of course have adapted training, but it needs to be put in the way that the young people in 'Class 10b' say: they stretched a little further when they got teachers who thought they could reach further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e408	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e411	Like the Christian People's Party, the Right is extremely pleased that the Council of State follows up the focus we have at high school. Increased bets in high school and better results in high school are very good. We are particularly pleased that the Council of State has pointed out that it is now important to bet on the basic subjects. We'll see better results on the PISA ranking, as a result. We're going to have that focus. What's been a lot of talk about here is how to get more people through in a good way, so that they experience mastering. It is then exciting to confirm that an increasing number of municipalities will be involved in the labour market testing scheme. Then we get a little worried when it comes to notifying you of an increased offer of elective and practical subjects in high school. For now, therefore, we need to invest in the labour market and basic subjects, but where are these new choices to be taken from, without weakening the other measures? I think that also concerns the teachers around.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e418	I have invited you to a discussion about how we can make the high school more relevant, more demanding, more characterized by mastery for the individual and more influenced by learning. What has been mentioned in that debate by a great many teachers, parents and students is the possibility of more practical training — the profession of work will give it the opportunity, but also to have more choices. It's not because you want to get away from the basics, but because those who master other things a little bit better, often also get a little bit better in basics. So I want that discussion to go on, but you have to do it in such a way that it doesn't become a department to relax, but a department for a slightly different type of learning. I am very pleased if both the Right Party and the Christian Party are now satisfied. I find it interesting that very many of the proposals that the Right usually come into the school debate, about privatisation, about ranking and about grades are absent in this debate. I am absolutely sure that the grips we want to take on the future are going to work together on and get good solutions on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e425	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e428	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. In his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister said: ‘The work is the basis for our well-being. Therefore, we must constantly ensure that as much work as possible is in progress.» Furthermore, the Prime Minister said that we must live on each other's work, not on the work of others. This was also fully underlined when the Prime Minister was in Stortinget for a short time and presented his new project: Dugnad for work. I'm going to be the first to admit that as much work as possible is a good goal. However, from the New Year onwards, no disabled person is getting to work or is in a training situation, work and education trips. People have to quit working life or turn down to work. The adopted State budget does not allow for granting a single new application for transport to and from work or education — this information, according to the Blind Alliance. For every day that goes, more disabled people are hit. They fall out of work or lose the opportunity to take a job they have been offered. The Government and the Workers' Party also have a different slogan, 'All shall join'. This clearly does not apply to disabled persons. Why is it that disabled people are not given the opportunity to live on their own work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e448	The question concerns the financing of work trips. I would like to stress that the Government spends a great deal of money on financing transport for disabled people. This system we are talking about now is a testing scheme introduced in 2001 to cover a gap – for people with disabilities who cannot benefit from the other existing schemes. There are currently about 400 users in this scheme, with around 18 million in use. kr. But it is quite right that the representative says that after Christmas there have been about 30 people who have been rejected. This does not mean that there are fewer people travelling, but it has not been possible to take new users because of the budgetary situation. What I've said before is that we're going to look at this arrangement. It is for evaluation, and we are going to see if it should be changed, whether it should be made more permanent. I will come back to that in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e455	The answer, that you have this system to assess, amazes me a little. It's just that we're done with an IA agreement, where one of the targets is that more people with disabilities are going to get into work. The situation today is that there are several disabled people who want to go to work. A lot of companies, and Nav, have used money to organize a lot of jobs, but the problem is simply that the disabled don't get to their workplaces. They can't get there because you haven't spent any money in the state budget. For this reason, my follow-up question will be: will the Council of State, in the context of the revised National Budget for 2010, or at the latest in the State budget for 2011, provide more money for travel by work and education, so that people with disabilities who are ready to move out of work will be able to get to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e462	First, I would like to stress that the Government has many measures to get out of work. But just in the case of this scheme, there are some users who have been refused because there have been no funds beyond the funds they had last year. I will look at this matter, and I will come back in a general way in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e469	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e472	Many resource-intensive people are out of work today. Good organisation of the workplace will help to enable more disabled people to get into work. It will also help to ensure that more people who are ill can be on the job. The current organisation grant scheme is perceived by employers as both bureaucratic and poor. The Progress Party proposed to improve and extend this scheme in budgetary terms. The government, on the other hand, has cut off the scheme – gradually, in recent years. And in the context of the IA agreement, there was no signal from the Government to improve or strengthen this scheme, even though the main message for an inclusive working life is precisely planning. My question is: Will the Government itself come and contribute to a better organisation so that this is not perceived as a burden for employers, but that more people can participate in an inclusive working life, which is the objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e479	I think we can all agree that getting more disabled people into work is an important objective. So I think we can also agree that this is a challenging goal. I would like to stress that the Government has a good policy to do this by having many different action areas. So you might think that there might be a need for arrangements beyond this, but we have a lot of places. Then I want to say that in the 2009 budget, there are these faster back places – there are places that go above the health budget, and there are places that go above the Minister of Labour's budget. It is true that you have – which I have answered in a previous question here – a budgetary error, which I have talked to my predecessor about, and which the Storting is briefed on. That's 320 million. kr with which it was not budgeted in the 2009 budget, and I have said that I will return in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e489	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e492	In answer to another question, the Council of State now answered partly my question. It is good that you should come back with a message about what is happening, given that there has been a sudden stop in very many recovery companies. From my home country, Telemark, I have been informed that I have been notified of stopping in four weeks. I have listed a number here, on a small note: 130 at a company in Westfold must end in the middle of a program, within four weeks, because it is not money. They obviously do not have to wait for an alternative budget to be notified. So I can't put my question any better than I got it in an e-mail from one of the people in this company in Westfold: is there going to be more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e499	I am asking for an understanding that I cannot now promise more money in connection with this. So what has been said by the government earlier, is that we have maintained the number of seats in this area, but in case of an error, it was not listed as 320 million. NOK, on the basis of the fact that this money had not been seen to be paid in 2010. The Stortinget has been informed of this. What we've said is that we want to signal to Nav that they're going to maintain places at the same level, and then we're going to get back to this in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e506	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e509	I would like to welcome the Minister of Labour to the spontaneous Question Time, but I would have liked it to be another matter she had to face here, because this is an exclusive policy. I do not understand that this is a policy that the Government can recognise. This is a system that has been operating since 2001, gradually being built up – and a talker about a test scheme that has now worked for almost ten years! So we feel that the Prime Minister, both in the New Year's Year's Year and in its distribution here on 17 February, is talking about his desire to do more work – 'Cooperation for work'. But it does not apply to those people who need social benefits, whether they are travelling to work or to education. This must be contrary to what the Prime Minister has said. Can the Council of State now guarantee that there will be more money, so that the disabled will not be in this unworthy queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e516	I would like to stress that I cannot guarantee this now, but that I will look into the matter. I would also like to stress that a lot of money is spent on travel for people with disabilities, but that this is a special arrangement. There has been a very gradual increase in the need for that system, so you haven't had complete control of what that need will be like. We see that the need is increasing, and what I can guarantee is that we should look at this and come back in a general way, first in the revised budget and then in a later budget. So the scheme is under evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e523	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e526	I have a question for the Minister of Labour. After all, a new IA agreement has been signed, and saying that the IA agreement has flowed from new measures is likely to be an exaggeration. It is also the case that the most important steps in the IA agreement, such as dealing with the responsibilities of the employer, have been put at risk if not indefinitely, so at least pushed into the future. So the government has decided to use the rhetoric: we're going to do more of what works. It's a paradox, because it's obvious that the IA agreement that applies now, or that went out a short time ago, has not worked. When you look at the main intention, namely to bring down sick leave, it hasn't worked. One thing is to sign an agreement, but following an agreement is something quite different. The IA Agreement imposes on the State important obligations financially, but also in relation to how the service provider is to follow up, concretely how Nav is to follow up. During the current IA period, Nav has not been close to following up its obligations in relation to dialogue meetings, dialogue meeting 2. The new IA agreement has pushed the deadline for them, and said that they should be held earlier, but it has still not been assured that Nav can follow up. Another part of the previous IA agreement, which was not followed up, was that Nav had the opportunity to impose sanctions on employers. The hub lacks an overview of whether this instrument has been used, and thus the Council of State lacks an overview of whether this instrument has been used. Can the Council of States guarantee that the State will fulfil and comply with its obligations under the IA Agreement that has now been concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e535	First, I would like to stress that yes, sick leave is too high, and it is right that the representative says that the agreement that has now expired has not worked as we have wanted. Then I would like to stress that in 2004 the sick leave was actually reduced by 20 pst. It's the Frischsenter who's shown it. This occurred within the same instruments as one had, but with particular use of classified health care. So we know that if we have – as the representative also quite rightly says – focus and work closely and do a proper, concrete follow-up job all the time, then this works. That's why the government says that we're now doing more of what works. We're doing a number of other things, but it's not covered by this question. It's absolutely right that some of what we're doing is being busy starting things early, because we know that getting started early, making us get people back to work as quickly as possible. One of those things is getting the dialogue meetings moved forward in time. That's the one. The second is that work centres must work better. It's absolutely right that it's a new challenge for Nav. It has just been very important for me to have good checkpoints in relation to Nav all the time, to make sure that Nav is able to do that job, and that I have not signed an agreement that I do not know the state can follow up. So I can reassure the representative that that's what I'm very concerned about, and I'll follow that up very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e544	In 2004, I remember well. Then there was another government, which did something about the IA agreement. Then the sick leave went down, that's right. And then it went up again afterwards, so total for the IA period the goal was not achieved that sick leave would go down altogether. I don't think the council answers the question either, because the key here is to look at: What's different with Nav today, compared to the IA period we've now gone out of? What, in the opinion of the Council of State, is it that today Nav is able to fulfil the obligations that they have not been able to fulfil in any way during the previous period? The only thing I can see that is significantly different is that you have a Nav director who's got a pay raise. That's good, but I guess the Council of State also has other thoughts about what Nav is going to do differently now, in order to be able to meet the state's obligations in the tripartite cooperation that the IA agreement is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e551	I would like to stress that I do not share the description that Nav at all has not followed up the IA agreement. Nav has followed up 70 pst. Of the dialogues they are going to have, and very many of the work centres are working very well and are getting very good interviews, including from the employers' side. But that's absolutely right: we have to have even more focus on this, and that's why I have a close follow-up of Nav here. As for what is different with Nav, I would like to say: Nav has been through an organisational reform, and 420 new offices have been established. You've been in a huge revolution. Now that part of the reform begins to get in place, and that's exactly why I also have reason to believe that you now have opportunities, and I want to focus more on following up the part of the IA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e559	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per-Christian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e562	I just want to inform the council that Stortinget has confirmed what she has not understood: Nav is not working. The council says that she will not now guarantee that it works, but that she will follow it up more closely, or as in the last answer, have a focus on. But there won't be a better hub because the Council of State has a focus on it. I assume that the Council of State has had it all the time – but Nav hasn't worked. When the Council of State arrived in Stortinget as a fresh government council on 15 January at a hearing, she promised to return to Stortinget with reform proposals for Nav in the spring session. After thinking about it for a couple of weeks, she came back to the Stortinget and said it's not until the harvest, i.e. in the budget. So she's going to spend nine months of the year reforming Nav, despite the fact that the representatives of her own party in the hall decided that you know what's not working, and you don't need an investigation. Why does the Council of State have such a bureaucratic approach to a problem that is acute and acute for the weakest in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e567	What I have said clearly on request also earlier is that we must not act rashly in this case. We know that we have established a system that has – I get feedback about – shortcomings and weaknesses. I have set up an expert committee to assess this issue and, in the context of the RNB, to come up with a description of the actual situation. Then, before summer, they're going to come up with recommendations on how they're going to do this. I think something else – like drawing some hasty endings – will be very wrong. The craziest thing you can do with Nav in the process Nav is start a lot of things that you don't know how to do in advance. Then I want to say that I have not said that I just believe and hope that Nav will work better. I think it's important to be aware that very many people did not do what they were supposed to do in connection with the IA agreement we had. Neither the job page, the employee's side, nor the Nav had enough focus. Now we're going to have that focus, and that's why the government and I also believe that we're going to be better off with that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e574	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e577	Let me just first underline from the previous question that I believe the Council of State mixed it with the organisation of work and action places. These are two widely differing instruments. So to this thing. Just to underline once again what is both in the IA agreement and what the Prime Minister said at the press conference, that is, to do more of what works, which was also the main concern. Nav has a key role to play in this regard. We know that Nav has not been able to perform that key role in a good way until today. It must mean Nav is going to do more of what you have not done to date, and do it at an earlier time. There will be even more chaos, even more problems – at least after my head. Then my challenge is to the Council of State: what concrete action is the Council of State now going to take towards Nav, so that Nav can do these tasks under the IA Agreement in a good and proper way and make something that hasn't worked up to today's date work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e586	I would like to emphasise once again that it is actually not such a black-painted picture of Nav's follow-up to the IA agreement from the users of the employment centres and from the employer's side. Both in the workplaces, there are very many employers who are satisfied, even though they might want better follow-up, and in the case of dialogue, we know that in 70 pst. they are carried out in line with their intentions. So I just want to stress that what we're doing with Nav now is that I'm going to go through the management documents, focus on that agreement and what that agreement requires of Nav. So I'm going to control, through the instruments I have, to make sure that Nav does the job Nav is going to do. I would like to emphasise again that this agreement has a phase-in. It's not that from May 1st, all things should be in place. Here's a process, just to make sure that things are phased in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e593	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e596	In the course of the debate here, I believe the Council of State approx. 10–12 times have said that it should be focused. The focus is good, but we need action, and we need to know that the measures are working. Therefore, something of the first Christian People's Party did when we saw the new IA agreement, to sit us down and ask, are these measures good enough? I have to say I was a little uncertain. That is why I found out that we are sending a letter to the Council of State to find out what calculations have been made for the measures proposed. Yesterday I received a reply from the Council of State, and I thank you for that. However, in this reply, the Council of State clearly states that no estimates have been made for the measures. I have to say that I wonder a little, it's almost as if I don't quite believe that the Council of State and the Government don't have any calculations for the different measures. Therefore, my simple question is: does the Council of State and the Government not calculate whether the measures will bring down the sick leave and the costs, or has the Council of State misinformed the Stortinge here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e603	The costs and measures go on two sides. First of all, the extent to which you think you're getting sick leave with the agreement. As I said earlier here today, we know that in 2004–2005 we lost our sick leave by 20 pst. We then say that if we achieve what is the goal – I stress that that is the goal – you will also get savings in line with that. It is as right as the representative says, that there is also a cost to the public by bringing forward the dialogue meetings, and also by continuing the IA funds in a new agreement. Calculations are available. But as I just said, we have a phase-in on this, so that we kind of do not have completely extraordinary numbers. I think I get the opportunity in the budget to come back to those numbers, how this will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e610	So the oral questioning process is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e617	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport, who is directly responsible. However, the question has been withdrawn. Question No 3, by Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 4, from the representative Lars Bjarne Tvete to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. Question 11, from the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 6. Question 15, from the representative of Sylvi Graham to the Minister of Labour, will be raised by the representative of Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e635	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: ‘The 330 squadron, the main element of the rescue helicopter service, has very old helicopters. This presents several challenges, but one of the main challenges is undoubtedly related to maintenance. At the same time, it is essential that the machinery be operational in such a way that the tasks given to it can be properly and properly resolved. What is and will be the biggest maintenance challenge in the years before new machines have replaced today’s helicopter park?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e644	The Ministry of Justice is the technical and budgetary officer of the rescue services, while the Air Force is the operator. The maintenance of Norwegian Sea King rescue helicopters is carried out by the Defence Logistics Organisation. The Norwegian Sea King rescue helicopters are of the Sea King in the world that has flown the most. However, it is important to stress that helicopters maintain a very good standard of maintenance. Total surveillance of all 12 Sea King helicopters has been carried out in recent years. The defense is now in progress with a new round of extensive overhaul. The defence also investigates any other measures that should be taken to ensure the proper and sound operation of Sea King until new rescue helicopters are in place. The main technical maintenance challenge for our helicopters is related to access to spare parts and components. As the number of operators of Sea King worldwide decreases, the production of spare parts is reduced. Future access to spare parts could therefore be a challenge. The Ministry of Justice works with the Defence Logistics Organisation to address these challenges towards the delivery of new rescue helicopters. This development is further reinforced by the recent decision of the United Kingdom, as today’s largest helicopter type user, to phase out its Sea King rescue helicopter fleet. This shall be done by March 2016, starting in 2012. Such developments may in the long term have consequences for the operation of the Norwegian Sea King. The defence logistics organisation is in the process of establishing a dialogue with military authorities in the United Kingdom to identify consequences, but also to see what opportunities this can give us. The Norwegian rescue helicopters maintain a high technical standard despite their age. Every day, crew and technical staff make a very robust effort to keep the helicopters operational. As long as spare parts can be acquired, I am sure that the rescue helicopter service can perform its tasks in a very satisfactory and sound manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e662	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think is positive in many ways, although there are some concerns in this. We can agree on one thing: Norway has undoubtedly one of the world's best rescue services. I want to give all sorts of homage to the 330s quadron and everyone else who's making an effort to help people who need help. At the same time, I have the same concerns as the Council of State: what happens now that the English have decided to phase out their Sea King and bring in new ones? Not least the focus on spare parts. I hope that the main focus of the Government may not be to take over the machines that are phased out in England, but that we can be more forward-looking in line with the decision of the Stortinget in this room on 16 May 2002. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State, even with the maintenance we now have, mean that today's Sea King fleet is at a level that has the same qualities as the one you have, for example. have in the civil sector transport to oil installations and others? They have completely new equipment, they have new machines, and you even have private operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e669	I must honestly admit that in this case I have been busy giving a picture of the maintenance standard for the Sea King helicopters. We are in a situation where we believe that the maintenance standard is very good, and that on our part we should be able to maintain a high standard of maintenance in the future. So I'm going to be careful to get into comparison exercises with others. I don't have the actual background and the information needed to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e676	That the maintenance is good, I assume. But it's probably also a fact that when the machines are as old as they are, they stay a lot on the ground. You have to pick parts from other machines to be able to operate at all. It shows, at my discretion, a continuous vulnerability in today's Sea King fleet. I don't think I remember faults, but when I read the budget proposal, there is something about the maintenance costs that are becoming relatively large. I think you can use the same term without being offensive to anyone here. If you look at it in the light of new acquisitions, I hope that the Council of State, together with the Minister of Justice in general, against – or perhaps with – the Minister of Finance, will have a very active look at the new acquisitions, which hopefully will reduce the great focus we now have on the maintenance side. The last thing I could imagine asking the Council of State is whether she can assure me that the focus on new acquisitions is still the same, and that you don't have a one-sided focus on spare parts, because it becomes too defensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e683	We have a good cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Police, and it might be the right address to ask the Minister of Justice about what the questioner here raised. Let me just stress that the responsibility for the acquisition of new rescue helicopters in its entirety lies with the Ministry of Justice, but we also support professional competence in this process and are, of course, also prepared to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e698	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Transport, who is the appropriate person. However, the question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e711	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e717	This question, from the representative Lars Bjarne Tvete to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e720	‘Last year the Grand Trondheim package, consisting of a comprehensive road system and a commitment to various collective and environmental measures, was adopted. The line E6 from Tonstad to the Jakware in Melhus is planned to be completed only in 2024. At the same time, drivers must start paying tolls in ours, 14 years before the road is planned. Trondheim's neighbouring municipalities in the south have protested against the toll system. The Council of State will ensure a faster completion of this road section, e.g.: by means of OPS?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e727	The environment package for transport in Trondheim contains a number of measures such as: has the objective of reducing CO2 emissions by 20 pst. by 2018, increase the share that travels with environmentally friendly transport – walking, cycling and public transport – and reduce travel by private car. To achieve these objectives, a number of measures are being taken. It is a priority to further develop a main road network, including: shall relieve traffic around the central urban areas. This road network includes the development of E6 Release–Stavne, which also includes the construction of new Release Bridge. In addition, the E6 Jakkoe-Tonstad has been added. In St. prp. No 85 for 2008-2009, step 1 of the environmental package was submitted. The collection facility, with the location of toll stations, is presented by this proposition. Furthermore, it is shown that a KVU is to be implemented, i.e. a concept-valuation operation, and KS1, quality assurance step 1, before step 2 is submitted to the Stortinget. Step 2 will include a holistic plan and final priorities of projects and actions in the environmental package. Thus, the Ministry of Transport does not have the current position when E6 from Tonstad to the Jakwear is due to be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e739	Trondheim's surrounding municipalities, especially district municipalities south of Trondheim, are, as I said, very concerned about what it will mean for their inhabitants, of course. They find it very unfair that they will start to pay in the spring on a road that will not be completed before 14 years. Is the Council of State concerned about the inhabitants of these municipalities, about how they perceive this, that they – for whom I understand – see it as an unfair solution? Does the Council share the concern that we should have it so that when you start paying for something, you don't get the goods delivered?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e744	Let me underline that I understand the ambiguity when it comes to completing the projects that are contained in a package. The question of illegitimate is raised by Hofstad Helleland. Then I have also noticed the debates that are now taking place in the municipalities around Trondheim. It's not because the toll stations are located differently from what was made of the proposition, but because they see that it takes so long for them to get something back, literally, for the money. I can tell you that the municipalities in question are invited to a meeting in the Ministry of Transport on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e751	I am very pleased that the Council of State takes the concerns of these municipalities seriously – I appreciate that very much – and also invites them to a meeting. That's good. Yesterday there was unfortunately a breach in the negotiations in Trondheim about the environmental package. Unfortunately, the specific measures discussed there did not reach an agreement. That's too bad. But when it is said: Already in NTP's first year of operations, we are experiencing underfinancing of NOK 2.3 billion. Now there were also signals that the NTP was not being met. Can the Council confirm that this will not affect Trondheim's transport and environmental package?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e758	First when it comes to the National Transport Plan, it's my ambition to do what I can to make it a point and a point based on what the Government put forward in ours. I follow the debate in Trondheim with great interest, because I mean a lot of what those who talk about will have transfer value to other urban areas. They were in the early stages of restrictive measures for car traffic. We, from the Ministry of Transport, have concluded a four-year agreement on pavement to Trondheim, precisely to reward municipalities that provide a better environment and restrictive measures in the case of car traffic. It is about health, the environment and the emergence. To the specific question, local authorities are given the opportunity to develop their views on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e770	«The government is hunting the drivers. More and more of the country's road construction is not paid by the state, but by the motorists through tolls and toll rings. The tolls are now also used for other things than road construction. The government is working hard to impose traffic restrictions through the use of a rush-time charge, i.e. additional transport taxes paid by the drivers. Annual revenues from tolls are increasing sharply. What systems does the State have to keep a good track of payments and use, and what is done to reduce administrative costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e777	Let me first stress that the individual toll project is locally initiated, either to enforce a project or to get it realized at all. All new toll projects will be submitted to Stortinget. The preparation of a toll proposal in the State Road Administration and later in the Ministry of Transport makes the toll system and the financing of quality insurance. After the treatment in Stortinget, a tolling agreement is concluded between the Road Directorate on behalf of the State and the tolling company. The contract contains a set of standard conditions for the collection, management and use of tolls. The State Road Administration is primarily responsible for the selection, purchase and establishment of the collection system, and the State Road Administration owns the system. The State Road Service follows up the technical side of the toll collection, where the transaction and administration systems for toll payment with AutoPASS are included. Transition to a single central system is in progress. Toll companies provide annual accounts audited by the statutory auditor. Every year, the state road service goes through all the toll companies' accounts and makes any comments. If necessary, the State Road Service may go in heavier. The operation of the toll companies falls within the competence of the National Audit Office. The state road and toll companies work continuously to reduce administrative costs. Toll station automation is a measure such as: shall reduce those costs. I also show that the state road system, along with some of the county municipalities, is now working out the relationship around regional toll companies. The idea is that such larger companies can professionalise operating and exploit economies of scale. As of today, no conclusions have been drawn. Through the annual budget proposals, the Stortinget is briefed on the withdrawal of tolls for national road investment. Through the 2010 budget proposal, the Stortinget was briefed on withdrawals for investment on the new national road network following the implementation of the administrative reform. On page 189 of the budget proposal, the Ministry of Transport will return to the arrangements for managing and following up toll projects on the county road network and on municipal behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e790	Thanks for the answer. ‘Locally incited’ is another way of referring to political extortion. But unfortunately I do not feel reassured as to whether the overview is good. I have questions about what the drivers in the four largest cities in Norway have paid for the last 20 years, both gross and net, about what the money has been spent on – the money being demanded, is thus as much as 36 billion kroner in the period 1989-2009 – in response to the fact that the information requested is relatively comprehensive, that there is a resource-intensive work, and that there are a number of problems involved in providing the overview. It does not exactly show a picture that the Ministry of Transport has a good and comprehensive overview of the extensive contribution made by the car tolls related to road construction in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e797	I've done well for what the situation is today, how nine-time a toll project is actually being followed, from the local initiation to the State Road Service and then to the Ministry of Transport. I have informed about the cooperation with the toll company and the audit that is going on. What I haven't said about is the list of all the road projects that actually stand there because of – we'll call it – this common effort, state resources in some cases, in combination with local, sometimes 100 pst. local funds, which thus result in concrete projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e804	So I ask again whether the state has a good, comprehensive overview of what the drivers pay for through a number of different toll projects. I remind them that they pay a net contribution, and they pay in large amounts in interest expenses and large amounts in collection costs, which are properly supervised by the State Road Administration. It is therefore a system of supervision for all toll companies. We have had discussions on this in the Stortinget several times earlier during the previous Minister for Transport. The score is, among other things, lack of sanctioning powers. So when we've seen for years that there are some strong comments from the State Road Administration in the way the toll companies manage the funds, the answer has been that there are few sanctions, and there is really little to do. My concern and my question is whether the state takes care of the car drivers' money in a good way, at least in the same way as the state fits in with its own money, and whether there is an overall overview that tells the drivers what their total money is spent on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e813	The answer to the question is yes. The funds paid by the drivers will be secured and will again be shown in concrete projects that will be realised. It's like there's a continuous focus on the administration costs, on getting them down, just to put in multiple ways and bridges for the funds. Sortevik let this shine through the fact that the Ministry of Transport probably doesn't have an overview at all, because here we have said that it is a resource-requiring job to get an overview of how each krona has gone. That's what I'm going to bring back. I am quite sure that the funds have gone away, but I will see if I can give a more satisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e820	Then we go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e826	‘The Ministry of the Environment has completed an application for the UNESCO World Heritage Status of Lofoten. This alarmes many that the Ministry of the Environment has already concluded in its position on the management plan, and that it is therefore not given a clear, evidence-based treatment of the plan. In what way has the Ministry of Oil and Energy been involved in the preparation of the UNESCO request, and what room for petroleum activity would it be if the Lofoten were to be defined as a World Heritage Site?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e833	Initially, I would like to stress that the application for the World Heritage Status of Lofoten has not been completed. The work on the nomination was stopped in the autumn as requested by the Council of Lofot. What is now available is a summary of the investigations that were carried out at the time the application was suspended. In 2002, the lofoot was listed on the Norway tentative list of the UNESCO World Heritage Convention. This was done by Norway as a State Party and under the obligations arising out of the Convention. It is the Ministry of the Environment which is responsible for the implementation by the Government of Norway of the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage, and as part of it it has been responsible for the work on the draft application for the inclusion of the Lofoten in the UNESCO list of World Cultural and Natural Heritage. The work on the nomination is a follow-up to the registration of the Lofoten with UNESCO on the Norway tentative list of the World Heritage Convention and was started on the initiative of the relevant municipalities. The work has been managed and coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment's underlying Directorate for Nature Management. If it is appropriate to complete and proceed with an application, the other departments, including the Ministry of Oil and Energy, will be consulted and the matter dealt with by the Government before any application is made. The Minister for the Environment and Development has announced that any submission of an application should in any case await an updated management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten and a new local political anchoring. An up-to-date knowledge base for the Barents Sea-Lofoten management plan shall be provided this spring. This evidence base will be subject to a thorough consultation. A consultation conference will be held in June. For natural reasons, I do not wish to prejudge the update of the management plan and work further on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e846	I'll respect that there's a process in the management plan, even if you can be critical of the way it's happened. If Minister of Environment Solheim were to get his will and have this application sent out, as we know he announced in the election campaign would be an effective stoppage for oil activities in the area, such an application could quickly become an effective end to everything called industrial and industrial activity, including fisheries, based on the assumptions that Solheim himself has made. But leave it. What is the assessment by the Council of State of the possibilities for future oil and gas activities in an area with UNESCO World Heritage status?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e855	I think the representative Solvik-Olsen has a certain understanding that I don't want to go into and discuss different scenarios about this all the time both the specific matter that the representative raises relating to world heritage status, and not least the management plan itself is being discussed and is in process. It'll be to advance a process that goes, and I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e860	Let me try another angle of attack. In southern England, BP has a large oil production area with various installations in a protected area with a partial UNESCO World Heritage status. There they have integrated this very well into rural areas. They have also extracted oil and gas from fields below sea level up to 11 km from the farms. This is very interesting in relation to the issue we know will be the theme in Lofoten on environmental issues both on land and not least at sea. Can the Council of State bring forward BP's facilities in South England as a good example of cooperation between oil companies, local actors and environmental movements to demonstrate that it is possible to achieve environmentally friendly oil expansions also in areas where there is a major debate on environmental issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e869	It is quite right, as the representative says, that there are good examples in the rest of the world of changes in the way of operating the oil and gas activities that help one to deal with environmental issues in a better way than one did before. But we don't even have to go outside the Norwegian base to find examples of the same thing. The way we operate the oil and gas business in Norway now is quite different from what it was 30 years ago and almost 40 years ago. Fortunately, we have moved on to it. Underwater solutions are, as the representative refers to, a very good example of it, and I am absolutely sure that what we see of solutions and possibilities today, is also at a completely different level than what we're going to see in 10 years, 20 years, and also after that time. Technological developments are formidable in this area and will provide opportunities in the future. But when it comes to the concrete connection to this matter, we get to take things in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e874	Then the size goes back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e880	‘Health professionals have a responsible task where it is necessary to be strengthened, conscious and sober at all times so that patients’ interests, health and safety are best cared for. In my written question No. 971, dated 21 April 2008, and in my subsequent letter to the Council of State on 19 December 2008, as well as in new written question No. 1,550, dated 7 September 2009, I addressed the problem in relation to the lack of the necessary sampling requirements to detect abuse. How will the Council of State ensure that the regulation comes as promised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e887	I understand that Giltun's representative is following up his earlier enquiries. As the representative refers to, on three occasions former health ministers have blackened that my department will follow up this matter, and that we are working on a consultation note with proposals for regulations. The last letter answers that a proposal for a regulation will be sent to the hearing in the near future. Such provision as is provided for in Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 allows the Ministry to prescribe a ban on the consumption of drugs before the commencement of the service period and to require health professionals to provide breath tests, blood tests or similar tests in the event of a suspicion of misuse of drugs. In the design of the regulation, it has become clear that this home is somewhat limited. There has therefore been a need to assess whether a legislative amendment should also be proposed, in order to ensure that the legal basis is in keeping with what we believe the regulation should contain. This work has taken longer than expected. I want to ensure that a proposal for a regulation on mandatory abstinence is sent to the hearing before the summer. I aim that a legislative amendment proposal will also be sent to the hearing at the same time, so that the regulatory home allows the ministry to provide a more comprehensive regulation than the home does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e898	I thank you for your answer. I think it was very nice to hear that this matter is working seriously, and that you are also working to create a regulation and possibly a law that works after the intention. It is a serious problem that many people have been drugged in their working hours, which of course follows for patients, but it also has great consequences for the person concerned, unless this is caught up and taken up. It is true that those who are addicted need help to get out of the abuse. What worries me a little is the deadlines and the answers that come from different governments, which are not being followed up. Sylvia Brustad replied that the proposal for a regulation should be clear ‘by 1 October 2008’, and the last response from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen six months ago was that the proposal should be open to external consultation ‘in the next few weeks’. Can the Council of States now promise that the time perspective she sets here today will hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e907	At least I can say that I think I have very common interests with the questioner, the representative Giltun, so that I will do everything I can to now do what has been promised by my predecessors as well. I'll put my honor in that this is coming as I have now said.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e912	That was very nice to hear. Then I can give feedback to those who are waiting, because there are actually a lot of people responsible out there, including. HMS workers, waiting for this case to be ready for consultation, and for a better opportunity to detect abuse among health professionals. Today, someone is losing the authorization because of this. But what's being taken up is probably the top of an iceberg. There is an absolute need to find arrangements so that this can be done in a proper way both to those who are going to give these tests and who are going through a scheme to get out of their abuse, and of course very much also to patients and all those who are dependent on highly qualified health professionals who are at all times sober and who know what they are doing. There's a lot of mistakes out there, and it'll be even more wrong if not everyone's as sharp as they can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e917	I share the opinion of the representative Giltun of the importance of following up this work. That is why I am also concerned that this work is now being consulted before the summer, and that we are getting all the necessary regulations and regulations in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e925	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘The hospital Inland HF has proposed to shut down the Hagen treatment centre in Veldre, Hedmark. This is a good offer in the field of mental health protection for children and young people aged 6 to 12 years. Daily and daily services are provided in the field of environmental therapy, psychological and family therapy. The average waiting time for treatment for children and adolescents is in Health South-East 59 days, and 15 pst. feels that they are not being dealt with within the prescribed time limit. Does the Council of State consider the closure of offers to mentally ill children to be appropriate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e934	Treatment provision for children and young people in mental health protection is an important area for which the Government wants to strengthen, and for this reason in the 2010 mission paper I have asked regional health companies to give priority to the provision of services for children and young people. I have also requested that the number of consultations within the ambulance business be increased by 10 pst. This applies to both children and young people. In this case I have asked for a statement from Health South-East. The report states that in Health Inland HF there has been a significant expansion of outpatient and outpatient capacity in recent years. The number of children and young people receiving help in mental health protection has increased from 299 in 2003 to 5100 in 2009. This corresponds to a coverage of about 6 pst. of the children’s population in the Inland Hospital. The national target for coverage of 5 pst. is thus more than achieved in this area. Health Inland HF is investigating the future 24-hour offer for children and young people. The study is carried out as part of the overall development plan for children and young people and includes, inter alia: an assessment of the offer of Hagen treatment unit. In this context, it is recommended that Hagen treatment unit be discontinued in its current form and that the offer be integrated into the established offers for children and young people in the Inland HF Hospital. The statement shows that this proposal has not been fully evaluated. Health South-East states that no decision has been taken to shut down the Hagen treatment unit. In the future, the Management Board of the Hospital Inland will follow the development of the healthcare provision in the field of mental health protection through the reporting of activities. In recent years, the situation around the daily capacity of mental health protection for children and young people has been particularly addressed in the State budget. It has been explained that the planned escalation of daily capacity is largely absent and that this is related to the strengthening of outpatient clinics and the development of outpatient forms of work. The field has been and is being developed, and it has been difficult to assess what professionally will be the right volume of daily supply in the future. I will consider the need to review the future structure of the service of children and young people and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e947	I thank you for the answer, which I perceive to be thorough. It contains what in itself creates a lot of frustration out there: one uses alternately a professional and economic reason why Hagen's treatment centre should be shut down, and it's very difficult to deal with both. Professionally, it is difficult to enter into a debate about this. But I've looked at both the results and the development of Hagen, and I'm quite impressed by what they've managed to achieve, both in the form of increased treatment for young people and in the form of new treatments. But I am very pleased that the Council of State has obviously intended to follow this closely. As she says, there's a fairly broad consensus that you need to strengthen this area. We're in bad shape. We are very poor in Europe when it comes to the supply of mentally ill children, and that is not acceptable. I want to see what the real reason is, and see how it evolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e954	I would like to stress that there are many places where children are well treated, including in the field of mental health protection. Fortunately, we also have good offers, and the waiting time for this type of offer goes down. As I said, there is no final position to shut down the Hagen treatment unit. However, it is moving towards a much more outpatient and outpatient treatment of those with mental health challenges. I think that's a good and proper development. It is important that both children, young people and adults receive treatment where they are — in their local environment, at home, at work, etc. But as I said, some daily places are also necessary. And in the case of Hagen treatment unit, there's no final position on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e961	I think it is very good to hear that a final decision has not been made. Because that's exactly where I get the input: what's the option for Hagen? They have evolved precisely in the direction that the Council of State was in, treating the children where they are. That's how you've increased your capacity. This matter has created a great commitment both to those who know the center and to those who are affected. Young people who have been treated have also stood out and said that these are very competent settings. They say there are no alternatives to the treatment they get there. I really just have to take note of that. As I said, going professionally into a debate about this is a challenge. But I feel quite reassured that the Council of States has such a focus on it, and that she also takes into account that there may not be so many alternatives to exactly what you have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e968	As I explained in my answer, there is a relatively good coverage in the Hospital Inland regarding this type of offer. I very much agree that this is an important offer for children and young people – that we take care of mental health and those who need treatment. That's why this is something that I'm very focused on. At the same time, I am also a politician and am responsible for organising the offers. I also follow technical advice on the types of treatment that are right. But as I said, no position has been taken here. It is important that this offer is, that it is a good offer for children and young people, and that they receive help as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e978	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the election campaign, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen and Minister of Health and Care Bjarne Håkon Hanssen stated that money would be put into the purchase of land for a new hospital at Gullaug, which was followed up in the state budget. In recent times, however, various representatives of government parties have expressed doubts about the construction of a new hospital at Gullaug. Is the Council of State determined by the purchase of land and the construction of a new hospital at Gullaug in Lier?"
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e987	In the 2010 state budget, the capital has granted funds for a loan to Health South-East RHF for the purchase of land on Gullaug in the municipality of Lier. The funds are put at the disposal of Health South-East RHF through the corporate meeting and enable Health South-East to purchase the land in Lier. Before the loan can be disbursed, a government-approved purchase agreement shall be submitted to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Health South-East concluded an intention agreement with Dyno Nobel AS on 6 November 2009 to conduct negotiations on the purchase of parts of the Dynos site on Gullaug in the municipality of Lier to establish hospital activities. Health Southeast has started work on contamination and other soil conditions on the site. The entered into Memorandum of Understanding with Dyno implies that any final negotiations shall take place within one year of the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding. After that, an agreement on any purchase of land must be submitted to the Ministry. Sustainable health care in the years to come places high demands on priorities, resource use and investment decisions in the sector. Regional health enterprises have a comprehensive responsibility, through the health enterprise model, for the investment and operation of hospitals. This overall responsibility is supported by the funding system, where funds are transferred as a framework rather than as earmarked grants. It is the administrations of regional health enterprises that adopt the cost framework and start-up of new projects. Projects over DKK 1 billion shall be submitted to the Ministry after the completed design phase. Major projects requiring loans must be dealt with by government and by government and be granted over the State budget. Through the allocation of loans to land on Gullaug, the capital has arranged for Health South-East to acquire this land. In the context of the 2010 state budget, the majority has unanimously stated that the project at Gullaug is a political priority. The final decision on a new hospital in the Vestre Viken must be formally taken by Health South-East before the presentation of government and enlargement and the allocation of the State budget in line with the legislation on major projects. It has been decided that the first major construction project in Health South-East is the project in Eastfold. After starting construction in Østfold, the construction project in Buskerud may start up, provided that all formalities are in place and the funds are allocated to the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1006	I thank you for your answer. It was in so far as a proper review of the facts of the case in terms of the case and the procedures. But what remains, which is difficult to grasp for one in the opposition, is that there are ever different signals from government teams about the validity of the decision taken. It is of course valid, but it is undermined by representatives of the government parties. Just before Christmas, State Secretary Heidi Sørensen went out and said that the location of the hospital was wrong, it should be in the middle of town, and she referred to Trondheim. Buskerud's own Per Olaf Lundtigen does what he can to then doubt the project, and the Center Party's annual meeting in Buskerud took a long time to shut down a new hospital at Gullaug. Is the Council of State personally concerned — and does the Council of State — that a new hospital should be built at Gullaug?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1017	I am dealing with what the Stortinget has unanimously said in the context of the 2010 state budget, where they have stated that the project at Gullaug is a political priority. It would not be put at the disposal of money for the purchase of a land to build a hospital at Gullaug if you did not mean it seriously. I can only repeat what I have said in this case, that this hospital in Buskerud is second place in the priority of Health South-East. First it's Eastfold, then it's Buskerud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1024	Can the Council of State give any indication of when the negotiations on the purchase of land will be in place? Bjarne Håkon Hanssen stated a few days before the election when he and Kristin Halvorsen were visiting the Dyno-tom at Gullhaug, that now it was just a matter of weeks before one could agree on an agreement, and then the money would be put at the disposal of the 2010 budget. Has the Council of State been informed – and is it aware of – how the negotiations are going? Are they starting to approach the final phase? Now we're almost a quarter out of the year, and at least locally in Buskerud we haven't heard anything about the status of the negotiations, and after what I understand, it hasn't happened very much since the grant was made in the state budget. Can the Council of State give a time when negotiations should be in place and the land should be purchased?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1029	I guess it's not very strange that it's not constantly being informed about a media negotiation process. As far as I am aware, the negotiations are under way. I also believe that this is an agreement of intent. But I'll be careful to say something more about this. There should at least be no doubt that money has been put at the disposal of this land for the purchase for hospital purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1037	My question is: ‘During the presentation of Climate Action 2020 on Wednesday 17 February 2010, the Director of the Directorate for Climate Change and Pollution, Ellen Hambro, stressed that the projections in the Norwegian reference path include emission reduction effects from measures and instruments already adopted and that emissions could increase beyond the projections if not triggered as foreseen. Among the measures included are carbon capture at Kårstø and Mongstad and 1 pst. efficiencies in transport, industry and oil per years. How are we today in relation to the reference track?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1046	According to the climate agreement, it is realistic to have a target of reducing domestic emissions by 15 to 17 million tonnes by 2020 in relation to the reference path as presented in the 2007 national budget, when forests are included. The so-called reference path used in Climate Change 2020 shows emissions in 2020 of more than 58 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. According to figures from the Central Statistical Office and the Climate and Pollution Directorate, emissions in Norway were 54 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2008. Emissions from the transport sector were reduced by almost 2 pst. from 2007 to 2008. The decline may be partly explained by lower activity towards the end of the year as a result of the financial market turmoil, but statistical central agency also points out that the decrease can be due to more energy-efficient vehicles, the switch from petrol to diesel and increased blending of biofuels. For example, CO2 emissions from first registered passenger cars have fallen marked after the government imposed the one-off taxes on cars from 2007. The reference path is based on the long-term projections presented in the 2009 Perspective Communication, but with certain updates. The updates have helped to make the reference path slightly lower in the coming years than in the Perspective Communication, but from 2012 to 2030 emissions are estimated to be higher in Climate Change. The changes in the reference path are mainly due to changes in the estimation of the petroleum activity. The reference path has been developed in line with international guidelines for reporting emission projections. In line with this, the effects assumed by the measures adopted have been incorporated, to which the representative Hemdal refers. The reference path is therefore not a description of the Government’s objectives, but an estimate of the evolution of emissions given the continuation of current policies and instruments. There are significant uncertainties related to predictions of environmentally harmful emissions to air. The reference track builds, inter alia: that no concession is granted to new gas power plants without capture and storage of CO2. Furthermore, since the 2008 climate agreement, several instruments and measures have been put in place to reduce environmentally harmful emissions into air. Among other things, new building regulations with more stringent energy efficiency requirements have been developed, while the quota system has been extended and car charges have been shifted in an environmentally friendly direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1071	I thank you for your answer. The reference path is an estimate of the policy pursued, but it is true that in the reference path presented in the 2009 Perspective Communication, the impact of capture and storage, as the Council of State says, of CO2 from gas power plants has been introduced. We know that the status of Kårstø has not been clarified by the Government. It's a message we're now waiting for. Failure to deliver in this area will have consequences for the reference track and what is desirable. Therefore, it is important to be up-to-date on the changes made by the Government in relation to what was presented in the 2009 Perspective Communication. My question is: how – especially in relation to oil and gas, on which the Council of State itself was involved – are we more specific?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1085	The questioner has a precise understanding of what the reference path is. The reference path is not an objective, it is what we believe will happen if today's policies and instruments adopted today are implemented. If individual elements of what has been adopted were not to be implemented, it is clear that it will be more difficult to achieve the objectives. Further action is needed to get into the reference path before further action is needed to reduce the size of the population, namely to reduce 20 pst. domestic. So the reference path is simply something to be able to relate to in terms of our goals. For example, it lies. in the context of an expected energy efficiency improvement, an expected technology improvement based on how technology has been improved in the past. If any of these were not to occur, it would be more difficult to achieve the objective, and further and greater measures would have to be taken outside the reference path.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1090	I thank you for the answer and for the opportunity to also go a round further on just this. The projections presented by the Government in the Perspective Communication show some direction for Norwegian policy. But it is said in the Klimakur: ‘Effects of the capture and storage of CO2 from the CHP plant on Mongstad and of reduced emissions from Kårstø have been introduced.’; So we know that there is uncertainty about both of these projects. We also know that there have been changes in the national budget from 2007, which was the first reference point, to 2009. We also see in the Climate Action that new estimates have been made on this precisely after the revised national budget for 2009. So my question is, what will the government do if we don't reach these targets that the reference path adds up to Mongstad and Kårstø?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1107	As I have repeatedly said in Stortinget, it is not possible for any government or politician anywhere in the world to say exactly when new technology will be implemented. One can set goals and work hard for it, but technological breakthroughs cannot be fixed with an exact date. The absolute clear objective of the Government is that carbon capture and storage should be carried out in such a way that it goes into our 2020 target, of course. If this fails, it simply means that, on the basis of the Storting’s clear decision on the climate agreement, major, tougher and more drastic measures need to be taken in other areas to achieve the climate objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1116	«Today, forest controls around 47 pst. areas of the municipality of Ballangen. They now want to protect 10 pst. of the areas, which will stop, for example: the development of environmentally friendly power plants, and will also stop cabin construction and logging, etc. The Ballangen municipality has made two unanimous decisions in the local council that this is not desirable for the municipality. The municipality has also proposed that if they had to protect absolutely, they could do so on another area in the municipality. Does the Council of State consider that it is necessary in total to overcome a legally elected local democracy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1123	I thank you for the question. The efforts to stop the loss of natural diversity are one of the most important challenges of environmental policy. In Norway, nearly half of all endangered species live in forests. Norway has also, from an international perspective, an unusually large variety of forest types. Increased protection of forests is therefore a necessary measure to ensure natural diversity in Norway. There is broad political support in the Storting for increased forest protection and for active use of publicly owned forest land in this work. State forest has been in favour of contributing to the work and has concluded a cooperation agreement with the Directorate for Nature Management on the implementation of the practical work. In recent years, a number of countries, including Northern Ireland, have been surveyed for the protection of forests on state soil. In June 2009, the Directorate for Nature Management sent its recommendation on the protection of 33 publicly owned forest areas in the Nordic Region to the Ministry of the Environment. Two of these 33 areas are located in the municipality of Ballangen. In the case of the protection case, extensive processes, including consultations and inspections, have been carried out to ensure that all parties are consulted and that all matters relevant to the case are assessed. All hearings and assessments made earlier in the case are part of the Ministry of the Environment and are part of the final consideration of the case. At least I can assure the asker that all the important aspects of the case were carefully assessed during the final consideration of the case, also in the specific areas of the municipality of Ballangen. I would like to stress that the Government attaches great importance to the fact that existing uses should be able to continue as far as possible within new protection areas, as long as this does not conflict with the protection purpose and the protection values. This includes, inter alia: that people can move in the area, fish and hunt, sank mushrooms and berries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1141	I record that the minister did not at all answer the question I asked him. I asked him how he looked at local democracy. We also know that Nordland is a state that is protected in the heel, which goes beyond the usual operation of the municipalities today. It is difficult to start operating new start-ups, both industry and other, when protecting everything. In the municipality of Saltdal you have managed to protect over 70 pst. But I have another question, when the Council of State did not answer the question I asked about local democracy. Two or three weeks ago in the evening post, the parliamentary leaders of the Central Party and the SV and the Prime Minister stood forward and said to travel around the country to hear what businesses, kindergartens and schools said, because it was important for them to have firmly anchored what they were going to talk about. Why does it not apply to the legally elected local democracy, such as the municipality of Ballangen? What's the difference between it and a kindergarten or a business?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1148	The questioner is based on the pointless claim that we do not emphasize what local interests in the municipality of Ballangen say. Of course, there is a lot of weight. There was a separate public meeting in Ballangen on the occasion of the case. We have gathered a number of views from the Ballangen Municipality, from the Ballangen Energy, from a number of local stakeholders. All this will be part of the treatment. I think the questioner also understands that in the middle of the treatment of such a case I cannot stand in Stortingen and decide on the outcome of it until we have completed the treatment. Then I notice a very important thing, and it is that the Progress Party at all does not seem to be interested in the very basics of the matter, namely taking care of the natural diversity. The natural diversity in the world is one of the great threats to humanity – the fact that it is decaying – we lose a large number of species globally every year. Norway has to take part in the work of caring for it, and then forest protection in Norway is essential. I want to challenge the Progress Party for once to come up with some positive ideas about nature protection, about species diversity and about the basics of taking care of the amazing world with which we are equipped.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1155	It'll be a little sweet to listen to the minister who's standing here and telling you that you're focusing on what local democracy and society around you are saying. That is correct, what has been said; they have been heard, and everyone has said no, they will not, and if something has to be protected, you can protect other areas. But here you choose not to hear so much about it. A municipality like the Ballangen has a lot of relocation because they don't get to develop the tourist industry and other industries, because you protect everything. You can't build up the local power plants that can give them the tax dollars, because they also have that in their protective plan. I see that none of what's going on in local democracy is being taken over. There's nothing special new about the party from which the Council of State comes. But look at the Charter of the Council of Europe of 15 October 1985. Point 4 3 says the following: «Public authority shall preferably be exercised by the authority closest to the individual citizen.» One might wonder if the government of Norway here is in violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1169	So now the questioner first relies on the view that the conclusion in this case is given initially. Let me then say that it is now for thorough treatment, and then we listen to all the views, both those who are in favour and those who are against, and then we draw the conclusion on the basis of it, which is of course an opportunity for the Storting to come back to if you want it. But I also record that it is impossible to trace any enthusiasm for the protection tank at the Progress Party. I don't know how many places I've been, where there's been a huge amount of protests before a protection has arrived. But when the protection has come, people have afterwards seen great opportunities. You turn around, you see tourist potential, and you get local pride. This was also the case in the Nordic countries, where we have opened several national parks lately, where there was great criticism in advance, but how much of it has turned to positiveness when people have seen the possibilities – instead of just complaining and sewing continuously, as the Progress Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1174	Question 11 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1180	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Suggests that Tine exports Jarlsbergost supported by the milk price equalisation scheme. Tine has exported Jarlsbergost corresponding to one year’s Norwegian milk production for the last ten years and has received aid throughout this period. The aid is financed by the sale of human milk in Norway and is 39 øre per. liters. I believe it is unreasonable that Norwegian consumers should subsidise the production of cheese to be sold abroad. Will the Council of State take an initiative to wind up this export aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1189	Norway follows international trade agreements and regulations as designed by the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. Under the current legislation, we have the right to export 16 207.5 tonnes of cheese to a maximum subsidy of 245.8 million. kr. This is an opportunity that, in sum, applies to all cheese producers in Norway, and there is a possibility that is not limited to one single operator. However, in recent years Norway has not made full use of this quota. I am pleased and proud that we in Norway are able to produce good products that the international market wants. This is good for Norwegian agriculture and helps to ensure the level of milk production in Norway. The additional output resulting from these exports is an important contribution to meeting the agricultural policy objectives and ensuring agriculture throughout the country. However, negotiations are taking place in the WTO on the revision of the acquis. As the negotiating text now stands, all forms of export subsidies are likely to be phased out when a new agreement may be implemented. We will, of course, comply with this legislation if it is the final result. At present, it is not possible to say when the WTO negotiations will be concluded and when any agreement will enter into force. I see today's exports as an opportunity to build brand names for Norwegian products, so that we can also export Norwegian products on the day export subsidies disappear. Export subsidies on cheese are currently financed by the milk price equalisation scheme. Any cheese producer may receive such a subsidy if they produce export marks. The milk price equalisation scheme aims at regulating the price differentiation of milk as a raw material for different applications while at the same time allowing milk producers to realise the target prices of milk in the agricultural agreement, irrespective of the use of milk and the location of production. The pricing mechanism is a zero-sum game, where subsidies on some products and taxes on other products go up. The milk price equalisation scheme finances a number of mechanisms to ensure competition and freight costs in the sector. I'll show you here, among other things. to the changes made in 2007 to increase competition in this sector, as dealt with by the Storting through St.prp. No 77 for 2006-2007, on agricultural production in 2007. The actors in the sector have been pleased with the changes that have been made, and I am pleased with the calm that has been created in the sector, with the changes that the current government has introduced. I've got per. no plans at present to wind up this form of export aid addressed by the representative of Nesvik. However, I will follow up the international agreements that apply at all times. The milk price balancing mechanism is an important instrument of agricultural policy and competition policy, and it is important to see this system as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1204	Thank you for that. I must admit, of course, that answer does not surprise me so much. Of course, the Council of State defends the export aid scheme that is being granted and does not take into account the fact that the person who pays the bill for it is the consumer. The consumer who is to buy human consumption milk is the one who pays the price also for this export aid. The background to my question is that I have gone through the latest period, 2000-2009, and the calculated quantity – i.e. raw material in the price balancing system – and that gives cause for concern. There are very many hundreds of millions of dollars being given to this export support scheme, so that Americans and others can enjoy the Norwegian cheese at a lower price, at the expense of Norwegian consumers. Does not the Council of States consider it problematic at all that Norwegian consumers of human milk actually have to pay the bill in order for Americans to get cheaper Jarlsbergost?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1215	I stress again that Norway follows international trade agreements and legislation as designed by the World Trade Organisation when we subsidise the export of cheese. We will follow it at all times in the future as well, to underline it. I am, as I said, happy and proud that we produce good products in Norway that the international market wants. Cost levels and nature in this country make food production expensive in Norway. The Norwegian people believe that it is important that we ensure agriculture throughout the country, and are willing to pay for this. Through the milk price equalisation scheme, both milk producers, the processing industry and consumers contribute to the maintenance of viable milk production throughout the country. The scheme contributes to the smoothing of milk producers’ payment prices, irrespective of the use and location of milk in the farm. Price balancing is also part of a market regulation system that ensures Norwegian consumers stable and low food prices. The recent fluctuations in the price level of the world market show that it is not a matter of course for consumers in other countries. The milk price equalization scheme is part of a whole, and I think it gives a distorted picture of the scheme when the representative Nesvik presents the calculation he is doing. For example, within the scheme: a number of other subsidies to ensure competition in this market and cover freight costs in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1224	This is not correct. The calculations I'm presenting are directly linked to Jarlsbergost and support for Jarlsbergost. I haven't used any other operations. I'm actually using numbers from the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Research, so I'm not using crazy numbers. I'm not adding other things to the numbers. But the Council of State does not answer my question. The starting point for addressing this issue here today is the paradox that Norwegian consumers have to pay a higher consumer milk price because Americans have to be able to buy cheaper Jarlsbergost – and people in some other countries. My question was, doesn't the Council of State see the paradox in it? I have not accused Norway of breaking international law. I have not said that it is not allowed to do this now, but I have noticed that Norway in the WTO is joining forces with the bulwarks of the class in terms of the use of subsidies, and seems to want to counter the free market. My question is left to the Council of State: does the Council of State not see the paradox that Norwegian consumers are going to pay for cheaper cheese abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1231	Through the price-balancing mechanism, where milk cohesion is an integral part of the process, we are helping to ensure the reduction of milk throughout the country, we are ensuring freight arrangements, and we are ensuring subsidies that guarantee competition in the market. It is an important feature of the price balancing system. Another purpose of this scheme is also to ensure the reduction of milk in Norway, production from Norwegian farmers throughout the country. Clearly, the volume exported is important for Norwegian farmers, and it is important to ensure agriculture throughout the country. That Norwegian consumers pay the consumption abroad, I disagree. We have legislation that we follow up, and we have milk prices and food prices in Norway that are relatively low in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1241	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In 2009, there were 445 agricultural fires, 223 of which were operational buildings. This also resulted in some animal tragedy. What will the Council of State contribute to reducing the number of fires?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1250	I thank the representative, Mr Bredvold, for an important question. It has, as the representative stresses, been an unfortunate development in the case of fires in operational buildings in recent years. There were 223 fires registered in operational buildings in Norway in 2009, which is the highest number of 10 years. In this context, I would like to point out that the legislation on the keeping of animals laid down under the Animal Protection Act lays down a number of building requirements to help prevent fire, prevent the spread of fire to animal spaces and to ensure the possibility of the evacuation of animals. This is a requirement for fire detection when the stock of animals exceeds a certain size. There shall also be the necessary escape routes and fire-fighting equipment in buildings with domestic animals. According to the Agricultural Fire Protection Committee, the incorrect use of electrical equipment and faults or defects in the electrical system is due in 70-80 pst. of the known causes of fire in agriculture. A number of important advice has therefore been developed to ensure the safety of service buildings against fire. The warning system shall be tested and checked at regular intervals. The electrical system is required to be checked at least every three years by professionals. I would point out that it may be difficult to evacuate animals that have panic during a fire. Therefore, both in the control of the electrical system and in the development of good structural solutions are extremely important. The Fire Protection Committee of agriculture, with members from industry, the insurance industry and relevant public departments and authorities, works closely together to prevent and limit damage to agricultural fires. The routine monitoring of operational buildings by the Food Authority with regard to animal husbandry and welfare will focus on preventive measures. In some areas, the district offices of the Food Authority have formally and informally cooperated with the fire service and the electrical supervision of coordinated supervision. I believe this is a good and important measure that I would like to encourage the Food Safety Authority to develop further. Finally, it is important to stress that it is the animal owner who is ultimately responsible for fire safety and prevention in his activities. It is animal ownership that must ensure that buildings comply with the fire safety requirements laid down in the Fire and Underlying Code Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1265	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. That the council understands the seriousness of the question, I understand that too, so we have enough common interest in bringing down the number of injuries as soon as possible. This has been a very negative trend. In 2006, 122 operational buildings were in operation, and in 2009 223, so it is a double of just four years. When you look at the amounts paid out in fire compensation, it was 98 million in 2006. NOK and in 2009, four years later, a total of 289 million. kr. So there's been a negative development both in terms of the number of operational buildings that have burned down, and the amount of compensation. This is a matter that I also raised quite a long time ago. On October 21, 1998, I had a similar question to the then State Council. It was also promised that things would happen. Something may have happened, but the number of accidents is still there, and the number of animals are still there. So we have to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1272	I agree with the description given by the representative Bredvold of the challenge. I'm not satisfied with the situation and the negative development we've seen, and as Bredvold then correctly mentions in his post. I would like to stress that I believe that fire safety and prevention are all, most important in preventing fire in operating buildings. There is a need to work with attitudes, and there is a need to work with knowledge both in supervision and not least in the animal owners responsible for following up there. Electrical installations and equipment are, as I said, the main cause of fire, and these must be regularly examined and maintained. In operating buildings of slightly different quality there may also be different quality of the electrical installations, which is a challenge in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1281	I thank the Council of State once again, and I still understand that we are going in the same direction and have the same goal. It's okay that the animal owner is responsible, and of course that's right. But maybe it should have been that if you have animals, regardless of the number of animals – now you have to have a warning system if you have a certain number of animals – you would generally have a fire warning system, because animals are special. With fewer and fewer operational buildings, the operational buildings used will have more and more animals, so that when an accident occurs, there are many animals that go with it. In the case of electric control every three years, it's probably all right. Maybe it should be even more often – I might say, because with an agricultural economy that is also getting worse, this may be something to save on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1290	I share, as I said, the concerns expressed by Bredvold. I think the points he raises are very important to continue working on continuously. From the department we refer to recommendations from the Agricultural Fire Protection Committee. There are thorough reviews from this Committee with recommendations to the different animal owners on measures to be implemented, both in terms of safety and prevention. There may be compartmentalisation of buildings and there may be compartmentalisation between livestock rooms and other parts of the operational buildings being carried out. It is also the case that individual farmers may also need to draw up contingency plans and carry out exercises. It's an area we have to look at. But, as I said, it's demanding to rescue animals when it burns first. So prevention is it all, most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1300	‘Social entrepreneurship operates at the intersection of volunteering and the market. Social entrepreneurs operate with a double bottom line. The aim of businesses is both to make important contributions in areas such as poverty reduction, health, education and the fight against exclusion, and to create jobs and viable businesses. How can the Council of State contribute to better conditions for social entrepreneurship in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1307	Social entrepreneurship is about developing new forms of cooperation between countries, volunteers and the market, without compromising the fundamental division of responsibilities between public and private actors. Social entrepreneurship is currently being put on the agenda in a number of environments. I would like to take this opportunity to mention the contact committee between social and economic organisations and the Government. KREM, one of the members of this selection, contributes as social entrepreneurs in the work of local Nav offices on the qualification programme for vulnerable groups. Several research and higher education environments also address issues related to social entrepreneurship from different perspectives. I'm looking at the increased commitment to social entrepreneurship with great interest. New forms of cooperation can help to reach new groups and trigger different types of activities than traditional forms of cooperation between the public and private sectors. Social entrepreneurship can have a comparative advantage over traditional public solutions through experience-based knowledge, practical experience and networks. I would therefore like to look at how different levels of administration, including the local Nav agencies, can contribute to the development and development of such initiatives. In this context, I would like to be particularly concerned with initiatives that can help many of those who are far from the labour market to get into work and activity, as KREM, for example, contributes to the implementation of the qualification programme. In my assessment of public policy instruments, I would like to be concerned with identifying forms of cooperation that allow the creativity of this type of initiative to take precedence, while at the same time making it clear to the public what contributions are being sought and what requirements are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1320	The public has an incredibly important role to play in providing basic security for all citizens of the country. But then there are some tasks that the public has neither the capacity nor the ability to do. We know that sometimes our great welfare systems can be seen as very large. That's the starting point for the very idea of social entrepreneurship having something very important for itself, for these are people who have a double bottom line. It is possible to help prevent and reduce social problems in Norway while creating jobs. This is not an environment that primarily wants to be State-subsidized, but is very dependent on and wants income from private businesses and investors in the usual way. KREM, who is a company in my home country, I know very well. It is one of the enterprises that calls for greater public involvement, greater public awareness and a plan, or at least more stable forms of support schemes. I would like the Council of State to follow up on its answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1329	I would like to say that I have already taken an initiative to have a meeting – very soon – with representatives of KREM. I've actually planned that before this question, because I've met them, and I've been very gripped by that commitment. Then I very much agree with what was said, that it is important that this does not become a new volunteer with a hand in the public, economic government, so that we get the same bond between these organizations and the budgets. Because then I think we're talking about something else. So I think we agree on what we're talking about and what we want, and I promise to go in and take a closer look at this, also in relation to the qualification program. We have Stormberg, which is a good example. In the area of drug care and, in particular, in criminal matters, which is outside my direct field, I think it is important, just as it is underlined by the representative, that it is based on a self-interest of those who run it, while at the same time having an interest in society. That combination is good. So I look forward to how, for the future, we can discuss how this can be a good contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1338	Finally, I would also recommend that the Council of State contact the Minister of Industry. This is a question that has no obvious addressee, in that this is about the Minister of Labour's field, but also to the greatest extent about the Minister of Industry's field. From my point of view, I am concerned with precisely business policy. So it is also a good idea to see whether the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the arrangements we have to strengthen the entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurship among entrepreneurs can contribute. It'll be a plus and a double bonus for society if you can also get new jobs. There are also very many women entrepreneurs here, so it will actually be a triple bonus – new jobs, women entrepreneurs and people who contribute to a crucial work for our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1343	I want to mention a number four as well: bringing immigrant women, which we know is a big challenge, and which I know is also one of the things that these groups focus on. I can't really say anything but that we're going to come back to this. I'm concerned that you have to have the whole thing. We were at the same meeting yesterday about the 2010 poverty year, and just one of the problems is that you have a very fragmented approach – and getting a whole is important. That is why, of course, this is something that I am going to discuss with the Minister of Industry and also with the Minister of Justice in relation to the criminal justice issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1353	This question, from Sylvi Graham to the Minister of Labour, is raised by the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1356	Then I will ask the Minister for Labour the following questions: ‘On 30 June 2006, the following was published on the Nav website: ‘It is the sum of actions, procedures and organisation that have an impact on the actual level of privacy. Nav attaches great importance to privacy and safety and has a consistent dialogue with the Data Protection Authority to ensure that this is adequately addressed.’ What steps has the government taken in the last four years to ensure that Nav has established adequate information security regarding access management and logging?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1365	The Working and Welfare Seat deals with information security at several levels, including: are working with improved postal procedures ensuring that documents do not compromise, first-line offices that take into account discretion, competence and awareness-raising activities aimed at employees, and ICT systems that meet basic security standards for the transmission and storage of personal data. The Ministry has adopted an overall strategy for the management and follow-up of the information security of the department by requiring the Directorate to implement national guidelines on information security and to provide guidance for ensuring the security of information in the letters of allocation. In addition, the Ministry has paid particular attention to the follow-up to the National Audit Office’s observations on the 2005 accounts, where the National Audit Office pointed to weaknesses and shortcomings in information security procedures for the large-scale machinery environment in the social security system. The Ministry has received an overall status report on the information security work in the Working and Welfare Act. In the 2008 report, among other things: until the Directorate has established a separate internal control system for privacy, information security and preparedness. The Directorate has developed strategic plans for safety culture, compliance and controls. Own criticality and risk assessments have been carried out, including: to ensure confidentiality and integrity. The National Audit Office’s observations on the 2005 accounts have been followed up by the Ministry in dialogue with the Directorate. The Directorate launched a major project in 2006 to improve access management, logging and monitoring in the large-scale machinery environment. This work was carried out according to the plan, and the results have been implemented in the activities of the agency. The Working and Welfare Act has operational procedures for the allocation of access and control of logging and other monitoring of its ICT-based procedural systems. However, the complex and ageing ICT systems of the establishment lead, inter alia, to: the lack of standardisation and user identities, the need to provide user identities to the different systems and applications, and the lack of automation of control actions. The ICT strategy of the Directorate for the period 2009-2015 provides a key prerequisite for future ICT systems to facilitate comprehensive access management solutions and the increased use of automated key controls. The Ministry follows this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1378	In the work that is now taking place, among other things. Following up on the IA agreement, following up on the disability benefits, i.e. following up quite a number of different points, is becoming more and more sensitive information about people collected in the Nav systems. The purpose of this is, among other things, to: to be able to follow each user, so that you can provide good and adapted help. However, it also increases the risk of information coming on more hands, such as: is an ongoing debate on, for example: how much of a medical journal Nav should have access to. Therefore, this issue of access is an extremely important issue. The Data Protection Authority issued a mandate to Nav on 9 January 2009 to establish adequate security for access management and logging. As far as we have been informed, this is not yet done, one year after the imposition, and it is said to be established in the near future. My question is, Is it established? Where applicable: what is defined as ‘the near future’?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1387	First, I would like to stress that I share the representative's view that this is an office with a large amount of person-sensitive information. It is therefore a great responsibility to have that amount of information. I would also like to say that I am following this very clearly in the management dialogue with the director, and I have therefore received this report which shows that we are working a lot on this. But I just have to be completely honest: exactly whether that decision has been followed up or not, I will come back to the representative later on, because I do not have enough knowledge of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1394	Then I hope that you will come back to it, and that at the same time you will also clarify the question of transparency for the user – that is, see who has been given access to the folder. Because that's the core question: would a user who in a given situation feel that a person who should not have information about one actually has information about one, then have the possibility of that kind of control? From the Right, we believe that we should have more of that in the public sector in general, namely that a user should have the right to know who has seen. That I have the right to know who has looked at my tax records, my records and other things, is very important, also to have a control that things are not being abused. Both in health, social services and in other sensitive areas, the right to see who has seen in your directory may be one of the greatest controls against the misuse of information.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1399	Here, too, there is legislation through data protection legislation that regulates just who it is who has seen, and which initially limits who should see. I assume that the law is followed in Nav, so there is no need to have a separate regulation of this in relation to Nav, i.e. who sees and does not see. So let's think about that. But I agree that such a large office with sensitive information must keep an eye on this all the time, and I can reassure myself that this is a topic I have worked a lot with before, so I am following it closely with the director.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1407	I will ask the Minister for Labour the following questions: ‘There has recently been a major focus on hubs and deadlines. In this context, it also affects fathers who, in some cases, are permitted for longer periods and receive a significant reduction in income. Contributions are determined on the basis of gross income and, when employee income is greatly reduced, contributions are also to be reduced. The duration of treatment in Nav offices around the country is up to six months in order to receive a change in the contribution from employee income. What will the Council of State do for these fathers affected by Nav's insidiousness?'
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1416	An important task of the Employment and Welfare Act is to ensure the rights of individuals through the management of social security laws and other social transfers systems in a good and effective way. The question asked is related to the scope of the contribution. I have been in contact with the directorate about this. For children’s contributions, the length of proceedings has been significantly higher than its own requirements for the duration of proceedings. Children’s contributions are therefore among the priority areas where more action is being taken to reduce the length of proceedings. It is nationally based, for example, on: set up their own teams to contribute to the reduction of child support. Efforts are also being made to improve productivity and quality of treatment by learning from best practice solutions. The effect of these measures will also affect matters in which a contributor has reduced wages and applied for a change in the contribution. Since October, developments in the area of contributions have been positive for the country as a whole. In the last year, the budget has had a strong focus on shortening the processing time and reducing the balance. The bet gives results, and users generally feel that there are shorter waiting times for handling issues now than it was a year ago. However, this does not mean that many users do not experience that treatment takes too long. I have therefore requested that the 2010 Labour and Welfare Act continue to work to improve the performance management. Time-limits for handling the case shall be reduced and the balances shall be further reduced. Moreover, the scope of the contribution is also an area in which the parties to the case are free to change the amount of the contribution between themselves without involving the directorate by concluding a private agreement on the amount of the contribution. It obviously requires agreement, but is a means of adjusting a contribution up and down relatively quickly. But I stress that it takes for granted consensus. So I see that that's not the solution to the main focus of the issues that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1427	I thank you for your answer. I understand that Nav admits that the waiting lists are too long on this topic. It is a heavy burden on individuals to get unemployed or to get out of work, and it can have great economic consequences for individuals that they have to pay a much larger contribution than what they actually have in the economy. The situation is that today, for a person who has paid too much in contributions, it will take many months for this to be corrected again. He will not be refunded what he has paid too much in these six months. But if it had been the other way around, that it had turned out that he had paid too little, he had to pay this and get a big bill on it. Does the Council of State see that there can be a significant economic impact on the individual, who has also lost work or been outsourced?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1438	I want to underline what I said in my answer. It is regrettable in general that the procedure is too long in Nav. We see that we are now in good development, and that for 2009 the figures for processing time were reached, which were at the same level as in 2006. Then we know that within the field that the representative addresses, it's an area where the department is clear that it's too long to deal with. This is why, among other things: set up its own groups to reduce the time taken to deal with them. That's what you see working. As regards the relationship between the recipient of the contribution and the contributor, this is an economic burden for both parties when the revenue goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1445	In the case of contributions, Nav and the Children’s Act, this is at a crossroads between the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Labour. Here in Stortinget we make promises. I've never had any things where I've had so many calls and telephones from the people of despair who feel that Nav is not operating with the same understanding of the laws that maybe the politicians of the Stortinget and the Government are doing, when you're talking about like parenthood, that dad and mom are going to share care, and that there's going to be a lot more equality. My question to the Council of State is: What action does the Council of State take to inform Nav of the new laws and regulations, such as: The size has decided on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1452	I will carefully answer that I assume that Nav is aware of the law that Nav is going to administer. I have every reason to believe that they do. I also know that they now have a good focus on training the employees who administer this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1460	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The coastal culture association Sjöråk has submitted an application for authorisation to use a previous shrimp trawl for tourist safari based on the island community of Røvær in the municipality of Haugesund. The Directorate for Fisheries has rejected the application, but says in the rejection that the Department should look at the matter. The issue is tourism, regional and fisheries policy and local development. It appears that the legislation has not been updated on the use of trawlers in this context. Will the Council of State contribute to the association's management of tourism radiation and update the regulatory framework?»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1469	The Ministry and the Government are concerned with the development of tourism as an economic pathway along the coast. A separate strategy for coastal tourism has been put forward, with the main objective of improving cooperation between the fisheries and aquaculture industries and the tourism industry. We want to find cooperation areas that benefit local communities and both industries in order to facilitate cooperation instead of conflict. This is also how traditional industries benefit from the development of the tourism industry rather than from displacement. This is why, in January, I had a meeting between the tourism industry and the fisheries and aquaculture industries on the further development of relations between the two industries. At the meeting, there was discussion and mutual orientation on the challenges and opportunities for further cooperation between industries. The Ministry is working on the follow-up to this strategy. We had a meeting with the Coastal Culture Association on 25 February, and we're taking their recordings with us in the further work. In the case of the specific case, the vessel you want to use here to take tourists and others out to trawl shrimps has been taken out of fishing through one of the structural arrangements. The starting point is that such vessels shall leave fishing. As a rule, vessels shall also be conditioned, but exemptions may be made for vessels which – and I quote from the paragraph – ‘have antique value or may be used for non-profit purposes, for association or similar purposes’. It is important to ensure that the objectives of structural schemes are not undermined by the subsequent reintroduction of vessels into active fishing, regardless of whether it is normal commercial fishing or other activities which have the economic basis for exploiting the marine resources. The specific case thus raises two issues: first, access to the use of trawls as fishing gear, and, secondly, the general rules on the limitation of gears for vessels not registered as fishing vessels in the trade mark register, and secondly, such a commercial use of this vessel which has just been taken out of fishing through the structural arrangements. Since the specific complaint is being dealt with in the department, I cannot say anything more right now about the outcome of the case. However, it is important to be aware of the two issues I mentioned here, and to see them separately. This means that any — and I stress, where appropriate — refusal in the specific case should not be understood as a result of a lack of interest in the ministry in order to facilitate coastal travel. Developing coastal travel life will be important for Norway in the future. I want to start a work to see how we can better facilitate this industry's use of marine resources both through fishing rights, interaction with the fishing industry and, where appropriate, in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1488	I am not quite satisfied with the answer, because I do feel that the Minister for Fisheries and Coast is more suspended in the legislation as it is today than it should be. It is obvious that the government has quite good work, which is interpolitically anchored also in the Storting, in relation to the travel life effort. Its name is, among other things, in the Government’s vision: ‘Tours by fishing boat, experience of real processing facilities such as dry fish, bird and whale safaris and coastal culture in the form of traditions and local history have a high potential for tourism.’ One will also have ‘increased knowledge and commitment to coastal cultural history, combined with coastal cultural heritage’ and preserve terrestrial and marine cultural values typical of epochs, including those of the Council of State. I would say that the Council of State should work for this, because the question is not random. Today's legislation does not open up to tourist radiation simply because no one has come to use unarranged trawlers for this before. The question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State contribute to the renewal of the legislation so that it can do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1500	I guess it can't be very eye-catching that I'm concerned about following a code I have. It is, of course, in the nature of the matter. This should not prevent us from thinking about new ideas and looking at new opportunities for the development of new activity along the coast, which the representative is also involved in. I myself am coastal dwellers, have lived on the coast all my life, and am very concerned with the development of industry along the coast. It's supposed to be life on the coast. Then it may be that the legislation is obstructing now. The specific case is for treatment, we'll see the outcome of it. But just to prevent conflict with traditional fishing industry, which is still one of the main pillars along the coast, it is important to manage to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and that's exactly what I'm trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1505	I do think that the Council of State, given that the matter is being dealt with, and has been for a while, could take advantage of the occasion today to say something more concrete. Then I choose to believe that the Council of State is negative. I think that's very stupid, because this is a concrete case where you have all the government's stakes in travel, coastal culture and small-scale community development – the criteria are just staring at the fact that this project is something that can hit. Then I have the following challenge to the Council of State – a written record, we get it afterwards: the following restrictions could have been launched: a geographical limit, a time limit for when they can operate the activity, a quantitative limit for how long, how much, and what they can take up, a universal obligation, like approved reception facilities, restrictions on the trawler size, that the boat is approved for tourists, and that of course no longer can buy and sell and get back into the ordinary fishing system, not a reintroduction. These are small-scale development, tourism development and coastal culture all in one place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1510	Sorry, but as the pencil no longer worked, I was not able to record all the points. But it's written down, and I'm definitely going to take all of the points. I should like to go into a discussion – some of the points I hear are problematic already, linked to traditional fishing industries. But to draw the conclusion that because we have the case for treatment in the department, we are negative, I think we are hasty. We will deal with the matter properly and in a good way. So I'm going to see if the code is an obstacle to developing good coastal-based travel businesses. It will show time both in relation to that case and in other matters. But I'm, just to emphasize it, very positive about developing a travel life along the coast that is based on the resources we have, and it's perfectly obvious that the marine resources are central to that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1518	‘A new scientific conclusion shows that the royal crab is harmful to the fauna. Therefore, it is important that the spread of this crab type is halted. Alternatives will presumably be the degradation of all the fauna in which he is spread. Is the Council of State sharing this understanding of reality, and is the Council of State focused on stronger taxation as one of several means of keeping the population at a defensive level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1525	Today's king crab management is based on St.meld. No 40 for 2006-2007, Royal Cancer Management, as the Stortinget dealt with in March 2008. There is recently established new knowledge of ecosystem effects due to the entry of the king crab into Norwegian regions. However, it was already stated in the main message that: ‘The government wants – from a precautionary point of view – to focus attention on possible impacts on the ecosystem as a result of the entry of the king crab, while taking into account nutritional and coastal communities in areas where the king crab is already established’. [[...]] On this basis, the Stortinget concluded an objective to limit the further spread of king crabs in Norwegian sea areas and to ensure the lowest possible population of king crabs outside the quotad area east of 26° east. Within the quota area, the stock shall be managed in such a way as to facilitate activity and employment. As a basis for the main message, it will not be possible to stop the spread of such a marine species, and the aim is therefore to limit the spread through different measures. Outside the quota area, the free capture of royal crabs and the re-release of living royal crabs are prohibited. As an additional measure for greater taxation, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has set at 5 million. kr for the hire of a vessel for the capture of king crabs west of 26° east. The Directorate of Fisheries has obtained offers from interested parties and five vessels are scheduled to be engaged with a start-up of approx. May 10th this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1541	I thank the Council of State for the answer -- it's not that far from what I expected. But now it is the way that the Directorate of Natural Management has a blacklist, where – as far as I think – the king crab is in the other place. We're recording that there are actually found royal crabs as far south as outside Bergen. The question then arises: With such a limited effort — with the resources to which the government refers — is it certain that one can stop the spread southward of this crab?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1548	If there's something I'm sure of, it's not to give guarantees related to the spread of the royal crab. That's what I think more people have burned on before. What we see is that it's spreading. In my answer I described the way in which one can keep them within a «box». So if we put lines on a map, the king crab doesn't see them. But there's a free fish outside the box, and that's also how we put in extra resources to try to limit it outside that area. In addition, it is difficult for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast to provide guarantees related to the migration of the king crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1555	Now, the fauna that the king crab grazes down is relatively coastal. Then it becomes a little special that a fin wants to build up a trunk within 26° east, as the Minister for Fisheries says. Would it not have been more sensible, when a blacklister came into our marine fauna, to assume that one should have free fishing on him, and that an actual fjord and coastal strip should have free fishing, so that even fjord and coastal strips were protected – or that a severely reduced royal crab population could build up just the animal that has been there at all times and that the king crab grazes down?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1562	First of all, to the research results in which new knowledge has become part of us: it's that the king crab doesn't feed all the fauna. The representative has not said that either, but it is a widespread opinion. It's a misunderstanding. But what we see is that there's a decline in the biomass of bilge animals and a structural change in the sediments. I want to learn more about what has been presented with research results. So to lines on a map and regulation: The King crab has come to be! Then it is the idea – and policy – that in an area where it has become economically important for the industry on land and for fishermen, we must regulate it as it is – a resource. Elsewhere we still have to have a goal that it should not be – there it is more to plague than to benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1574	Single minor asylum seekers shall be given priority for rapid and good housing and it has been an objective to settle within three months of receiving a residence permit. Then last year we experienced that 24 municipalities refused to accept minor asylum seekers. 79 said yes, and several municipalities chose not to respond to the request of the Directorate for Integration and Diversity. Now it is estimated that about 1,600 children need to live this year – a nearly double from last year – and I find it difficult to imagine that it is possible to settle within this three-month target. Minor asylum seekers are primarily children, and children are the most valuable things we have. They deserve the very best we can give them. I am concerned that minor asylum seekers must not grow up on asylum recipients. On the basis of this, I have dared to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘According to an overview from the Directorate for Integration and Diversity, 24 municipalities refused to accept asylum children last year. 79 municipalities said yes, while several municipalities chose not to respond to the request to settle minor asylum children. In 2010, there will be a need to settle 1 600 asylum children. In order to avoid young asylum-seekers growing up on asylum-seekers, what new instruments – in addition to those we have – do the Council of State see that they can be implemented so that children who have been accommodated do not wait to be settled in a municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1587	Lonely minors are a priority in the work on the settlement of refugees. In 2009, there were 606 lone minors. On average, around 150 single minors have lived annually before the increase in the influx of asylum in recent years. In the case of waiting time in reception, from decision-to-residence, it turns out that it has increased in 2009 — that is correct — it is per year. 1 January 2010 5,6 months for lone minors. In 2008, the waiting time was 4.5 months. The objective is that the residence, as the representative said, shall take place within three months of the adoption of the decision. In the context of the revised 2009 national budget, additional resources were allocated to the municipalities that settled lone minors to increase their competence and capacity in the service apparatus. I assume that this will have an effect on the ability and willingness of municipalities to accept single minor refugees even in 2010 and in the years ahead. For the number of lone minors to be settled in 2010, the figure is 1,600 based on a previous forecast, drawn up last year. I just have to stress that there is a lot of uncertainty about this. The arrival rates for lone minor asylum seekers so far this year have been significantly lower than for the same time last year. New forecasts for this have not been made, but they will be presented in the second half of March. It'll give us a better basis to see how we're now going to lie down. We are following developments very closely, and I agree with the representative that we need to be prepared to consider all kinds of measures to avoid children having to wait unnecessarily for their residence. I'm concerned that we're going to put the children's concerns high. It is good for both children and society that the waiting time will be as short as possible and that they will reach the municipalities as soon as possible. I have started a work across several departments, led by my department, to look at measures that can lead to a faster settlement in general, but especially those who are now in the process of that work are asked to look at the possibilities of lone minor refugees. The proposals for measures that come from there are my intention to follow up in the ordinary budgetary processes with the aim that we should reduce the waiting time and ensure that these children come out to the municipalities within the period we initially require.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1600	Thank you to the Council of State for a good answer. We are excited about what this investigation will lead to, not least in view of new measures. Some municipalities who say no use this with a lack of resources as an argument, and they also like to point out that child protection in municipalities is too poorly manned. That's probably true, and that's probably one of the reasons why the Soria Moria government said they're going to postpone this by including minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age so that they become part of child protection. The Christian People's Party has proposed a stepping-up plan for full child protection by 2017. In this picture, this will be an important measure, not least to be able to motivate the municipalities that are now saying no, to say yes. How has the Council of State assessed the proposals of the Christian People's Party on the basis of this issue of minor asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1609	The proposals of the Christian People's Party give us plenty of opportunity to discuss in the Storting next week when it is to be dealt with. I have also, in a letter to the Committee, taken a positive view of a number of the ideas that have been promoted, which are similar to the needs that the Government sees in child protection. I am concerned that we should be able to get a better match between the number of cases and the number of case handlers in municipal child protection. It's the most important thing. That's why we need an escalation of resources there. Then I want to say that while there is a clear link between the resource situation in child protection and our ability to offer more lonely minors space in care centres, when they come – and of course there may be resource challenges in municipalities – there are also too many municipalities that believe that there are greater burdens on these children than it is. And it's important to say clearly that these are children who can be a resource for their municipalities, and that many should therefore accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1618	I fully agree with the Council of State in that, and I think that, in fact, competence is needed around the municipalities in that particular area. I want to challenge the Council of State to the very end. The government warned that a measure to reduce the number of minor asylum seekers coming to Norway would be to look at the possibility of setting up children’s homes or reception facilities in the country of origin, for example. in Afghanistan. Has the Government done anything else in this matter? Is there any suggestion that this is about to materialize? The question is: what does the Minister for Children think about this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1625	It is a little too early for me to give an assessment of that proposal, because that has been said by the Government to assess, and it is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for doing so. I am concerned that no matter what happens to that proposal, we clearly focus on the fact that in the years to come, we will take responsibility for many lonely minor refugees who come here. There will be many people who have a justified need to stay in Norway and who will remain in Norway. Then it is important that we both have an offer under the protection of children to the maximum of these children, that we ensure that the quality of those who, until now, must be in the reception of asylum is as good as possible, and not least that we act in the light of the question that the representative raises and that I am very concerned about, namely how we get the municipalities to receive more, faster. So I've started a job to look at different types of actions, and then we have to do a joint job to show the municipalities what kind of resources are in these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1632	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-10.ana.ud2469e1645	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
