ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e62	Honourable co-representatives! The former deposit representatives Mons Espelid and Lulla Einrid Fosland have died. Former M.E.I.E.L.D. Mons Espelid is dead, almost 83 years old. He represented Hordaland and Left in the period 1981–1985. Mons Espilid was born on April 22, 1926 on Ashøy, and that's where he had his base. This is where he started his professional career as a school trainee after completing his education at the Norwegian Dental College in 1951. He later served as a district trainee in Sweden and as a school trainee in the East before returning to Askøy. Here he established his own private practice, which he operated until 1986. From 1963 until 1993 he was also associated with the Odontological Faculty in Bergen, where he taught dental students. An entire generation of dentists remember him today as a calm and lukewarm teacher with great integrity and professional thoroughness. Mons Espelid started his political career in local politics. In 1975, which was the beginning of his period as a permanent representative of the local government, he was elected rapporteur. He was appointed rapporteur for two periods and as rapporteur for one. Mons Espelid made considerable efforts in municipal and public authorities and took on a number of voluntary trusts. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Board of Education of the Odontological Faculty of the University of Bergen, and he was Chairman of the Building Council and of the General Planning Office of the Municipality of Askøy. He was in both the Chamber and the Norwegian Association of Dental Practitioners. In addition to this, he was in the representation of various major companies in Hordaland. Espelid also made a great effort in the Left Party organisation, both locally and centrally, among others. as a member of the Governing Council and as a Vice-Chairman of the Party. Mons Espelid was a member of the Financial Committee at the Stortinget in his period. However, he was a versatile politician, and with his broad political insight he was able to participate in most political debates. He had a strong social commitment and was especially concerned with health policy, defence policy and disarmament. Family policies, school policies and growing-up conditions for children and young people were also frequently addressed. Elder care was also close to his heart. He also spent a lot of his time at Stortinget on environmental policy and nature protection. As an outdoorsman he was himself an eager user of nature. He always spent part of the holiday on the mountain and even did a considerable job in the Nature Conservation Association. Mons Espelid had a lot of work capacity, and he always sat down thoroughly in the cases. He was very busy with language, and he was active in the board of the Lion Tray Target. He wanted everyone to understand the language he was using on the Stockholm pulpit. He put a lot of work into choosing the right words and formulations that made his message reach everyone. For this he received a price from Norsk Målungdom. Mons Espelid was also a delegate to the UN General Assembly. Former Depositary Representative Lulla Einrid Fossland died on 3 December 2009. Fossland was originally from Troms, but later became Finnmarking. However, she represented Rogaland and the Workers' Party at Stortinget. Lulla Einrid Fossland and the spouse, who was a customs officer, moved to many different places in the country. When they settled in Kopervik, Fosland began to engage in political and professional work. In civil, she was an expedition and a sister. Fossland became a trustee of the Cooperative Team, Chairman of Karmøy Trade Union, Chairman of the AOF, Member of the Karmøy Municipal Government and nominees to the Stortinget from the Rogaland Workers' Party in 1969. Lulla Einrid Fossland was an alternate from 1969 to 1973, but met as a permanent representative from 25 November 1969 after Peder Nesheim died. Apart from her one year in the Social Committee, she spent most of her time in the then Protocol Committee. During the period 1973–77, Fossland was the first deputy from Rogaland and met several times as a representative. She was a great representative for 4 years and 100 days. Lulla Einrid Fossland lived for many years in Karmøy, where, after the ageing period, she took an active part in society, among others. as a member of the Board of Directors of A/S Norsk Jernverk and as a member of the Board of Directors of Norsk Medisinaldepot. She was still a socially engaged person when, in her older days, she moved back to South Varanger, where she lived until her death. We remember Mons Espelid and Lulla Einrid Fosland with deep respect and gratitude and shines peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e112	Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Bård Hoksrud on leave from 2 February to 4 February to attend the Parliamentary Conference on Peace Building in London and Belfast of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Mr Åge Starheim from 2 February until further notice from the representative of Mr Geir Pollestad on maternity leave, from 2 February to 5 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Anne June Iversen For Telemark County: Kåre Fostervold For the Province of Rogaland: Arne Bergsvåg
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e155	Anne June Iversen, Kåre Fostervold and Arne Bergsvåg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e163	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e166	On behalf of the big business representatives Øyvind Korsberg, Ib Thomsen and myself, I would like to suggest that we give the family full freedom to share the maternity leave between mother and father.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e171	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e185	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e203	Norway’s northern diplomacy has been criticised by some researchers for being unclear in communication with other actors. For example, researcher Kristine Offerdal wrote: ‘Norway’s northern diplomacy is described by the Americans as unclear as to what Norwegian authorities wish to achieve in concrete terms.’ Others have pointed out that Norway is not always in the interest of increasing attention to the north. Maybe there's something right in both statements. However, when I promote this Northern Region Policy Interpellation, it is based on my and the Right's desire to look back at what has happened since the Orheim Committee presented its NOU in 2003, while naturally there is a need to look forward to it too. In any case, there is every reason to be satisfied that the northern regions have had a strong increase in political focus in recent years. For many reasons it has been necessary. It is always easy to have a critical look back at what has happened. In this context, it may well be possible for many to claim that the Government and others have made the bow too tight — and oversold their main political field of action. People with normal political memory will also remember Prime Minister Stoltenberg's famous North District Hall at the NHO annual conference for approx. five years ago, where the possibilities in the north were described in flame. One will naturally ask questions today whether it has been described, whether it has been pointed out and expected. However, the Right's view is that the time has come to define the Northern Region policy and the bet more clearly, because many of us who live, travel and not least to invest their future in the North have expectations in a geographical area that naturally needs future faith. Demographic developments in our own country over the past few years have clearly shown that there is a need for initiative, clarity and offensive north-eastern policy. Some would argue that the Northern Territory Programmes and their associated views have been evaluated, and that the main challenge of Norway’s security policy and the main area of activity of the Government in the coming years has the highest unknown content and are geographically ‘on all sides’. However, I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs today will contribute both to concreteising content and ambition and not least to suggesting some geographical latitudes and longitudes that can clarify and guide in this context. Norway has made a strong contribution to putting the Arctic, the Barents region and the Norwegian Sea region on the international agenda – perhaps in this area we have all succeeded, at best. The Arctic Council, where foreign ministers are involved, has established robust cooperation and, for example, the five coastal states of Denmark, Russia, Canada, the United States and Norway will meet again next month in Ottawa to develop this cooperation, although this is a cooperation outside the Arctic Council. We have seen that some of the Arctic nations and neighbouring countries have developed their own strategies, just as the EU is putting Northern Region policy on the agenda. Several — and the same — headings remain in these strategies, and concepts such as ‘environment’, ‘energy’, ‘climate’, ‘ur people’, ‘resource control’, etc. I'm going to go again. In this context, it is worth noting that some of these strategies in some areas have interests that may not go in the same direction as our own interests. NATO, too, in the process of its new strategic concept, highly mentions the concept of proximity as important in order to be able to show the colours of the alliance, a line that has Right solid support, where, of course, we want a more visible NATO in the North. The year 2010, i.e. this year, is a very exciting year in the context of the north. The year is well aware of events affecting the north, and national action and the ability to take decisions will be put to the test – it is necessary – while the political decisions of our neighbouring countries and other Arctic nations will influence our own opportunities. To some extent Norway is absent in international contexts that develop north-eastern policies, and in other contexts we have strong opportunities to take action. This is particularly the case in the energy and industrial policy context. Here the time window is open. I believe that the whole debate on the north had been on the verge of identifying Norway's ambitions in oil, gas, renewable energy, industrial development, infrastructure, such as road, power grid development, etc. In our own rural, environmental, knowledge and indigenous policies, we must actively continue to work and be clear in this area. For example, the right has always used tax incentives as an instrument when opportunities have been available, and in this context I can only refer to the establishment of the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone. Becomes the north-area bet «all-encompassing», loses the concept of clarity, weight and lack of focus. I believe in a somewhat tighter agenda and a stronger action plan, while at the same time nationally giving even greater regional anchoring. It should not be possible, for example, for north-eastern research to take place to a greater extent in the south than in the north. Developments have shown that in this area more capacity should be channelled towards the north. It will mean a greater connection to the problems we have and the effort we all want to develop, and I think that must be a prime goal. Furthermore, daily work, including in this context, must continue. The work of reducing the cross-border problem, the people of people's cooperation and the central job of putting north-eastern issues on the international agenda, on which we are all agreed, must continue. The concept of ‘north-area policy’ and resource issues are closely linked. So far, opportunities have been in focus. Controversies and the political conflict over road choices have not been prominent in this debate, and so is most of the issues that are not covered by a major political dispute or debate, but there is always a risk that the focus will become less clear. A region so rich in natural resources should not be affected by population decline. In addition to being the largest fishing region in Europe, and a region rich in minerals, the Northern Region debate should also be more marked by the region's potential to become Europe's major energy supplier. I am talking here about oil and gas, but the region has even more opportunities to deliver to our most important and close renewable energy market. We should put more emphasis on political leadership on these issues, including in terms of energy infrastructure. The area has long been characterised by cross-border stability and tolerance. While unresolved resource issues and borders exist, stability is, in fact, a key word. Europe’s energy demand, the resource situation in the region, and not least Russia’s and our own choice of solutions for energy development in the future, will provide enormous opportunities and not least have an impact on the development process if the right action is taken. demanding and important decisions in this area shall be taken this year, both nationally and internationally, which affect and will have a strong impact on the North Region policy; After all, a strategic decision will be taken on, for example, the expansion of the known Shtokman field on the Russian side of the Barents Sea, the world's largest gas field. Decisions on possible initiation or alternative suspension, and not least the choice of transport solutions, will be decisions that will affect the future of the entire northern region. We will also have the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, which will be dealt with in the Stortinge this year. Here, the Right expects an impact assessment decision to be taken when the Management Plan is finalised in the Storting. We're going to see that NATO is going to decide its new strategic political concept, and we're going to keep looking away at a hopefully close and good dialogue with Russia. I am aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will meet his colleague in Moscow as early as tomorrow. The Nordgebiet debate is likely to flow in some areas on the upper side of the plain North. Everyone with shares in the policy design in this area should look for a more popular commitment. It's a common challenge. Finally, how does Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr consider Støre de Arctic strategies that various actors – neighbouring countries and others – have so far presented? To what extent do these harmonize with the Norwegian visions? Foreign Minister Gahr Støre has chosen to call the North Region policy a generation project, but how does he want the situation in the north to be for the next generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e238	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Kristiansen, for addressing issues that affect important developments in foreign policy in our northern regions, a geographical area that the representative dares to be familiar with. We enjoy a broad consensus on the main features of the Norwegian strategy. The announcement of the northern areas from my predecessor Jan Petersen received broad support. The pace shift of the Stoltenberg government by defining the northern areas as Norway’s strategic area of activity, with strategies, action plans and appropriations, has also been widely supported. It is clear to us that a north-eastern perspective must also cover our parts of the Arctic. This, I think, is a new confession. We must therefore be interested in managing the whole of the Arctic – a region that is now receiving increasing strategic attention. An Arctic with more open waters and transport managers as a result of melting ice lies there as a link between continents, a region surveyed and partly within the jurisdiction of coastal states, with potentially large resources, but also environmentally vulnerable and still inaccessible, due to harsh conditions, polarity, ice and great distances. First of all, the understanding of the Northern Territory concept. It is quite right that in our North Region bet, the ‘north regions’ are not precisely defined by geographical coordinates, nor are they limited to Norwegian regions only. In one way, we might say that the ‘north regions’ are a political concept, a political definition: the northernmost of Europe includes the north of Norway, large sea areas, but also on land, where people live their lives. Norway has important interests in the development of this whole area and of the whole of the Arctic. Our bet in the north has to be seen in a geopolitical context, and therefore the terms "north" and "Archis" can be partly overlapping. However, from a Norwegian perspective, the ‘north regions’ will most often be used for the northernmost regions and neighbourhoods of the north, i.e. North-West Russia and the provinces of the Barents region, while it is more common to use the term ‘Arctic’ in polar conditions, including in and around the Arctic Ocean. But as I said, a clear limit I don't think is required. Strategically, all of this constitutes a broader, common framework. Although the Northern Territory Initiative of the Government focuses primarily on our northern parts of the country and cooperates with Russia, several of the main priorities of the strategy are also important in our Arctic policy and in contact with a wide range of countries. Our foreign policy in the northern regions and the Arctic includes at least five dimensions: Firstly, we need to exercise authority in the north in a credible, consistent and predictable way. Secondly, we have to be at the forefront of the international development of knowledge about, for and in the north. Thirdly, we have to be the leading manager of the environment and natural resources in the northern regions. We're going to have an active value creation policy, as it is, among other things. is included in the report New building blocks in the north, presented by the Prime Minister in March last year. Fourthly, we will continue to promote peace and stability in the northern regions, and we will work towards increased good cooperation with relevant actors in the Arctic, both bilaterally and multilaterally – in the Arctic Council, the Barents Cooperation, in the Nordic context and in other forums. Fifthly, we must support international law and, in particular, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, such as the basic legal framework for the Arctic Ocean and other areas. On the latter point, I would like to add the following: in 2007, Norway took the initiative to bring together the coastal states of the Arctic Sea – Norway, Denmark/Greenland, the United States, Canada and Russia – to a meeting in Oslo to discuss the international framework for the Arctic Ocean. It was followed up at ministerial level in Greenland in May 2008. The declaration of this meeting sets out the principles that these coastal States will follow to meet the challenges in the Arctic Ocean, the main message of the Declaration is a clear reference to the comprehensive legal framework, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which also applies in these marine areas. It is important to be aware — which I have often emphasised both in Norway and internationally — that, despite a sometimes mythical aura, the Arctic Ocean is not a kind of legal area. It's a sea like any other ocean. Our main task is therefore policy-making and regulatory development that fully exploits the existing international legal frameworks – precisely to meet the opportunities and challenges of the future ice-free Arctic Ocean. It is neither necessary nor desirable to develop a new framework of international law, because the Convention on the Law of the Sea gives us rights, but also obligations. These include: related to the requirement of sound management of marine resources under Norwegian jurisdiction. As the interpellant has explained, we expect increased activity in the Arctic in the years to come. In total, this will require increased Norwegian presence, in the form of enhanced supervision, enhanced search and rescue services and improved maritime surveillance systems. Therefore, the Government strengthens Norway’s operational capacity by, inter alia: new frigates — not in response to a military threat, but in a credible, consistent and predictable manner as the exercise of authority in the north. The Arctic and the north are characterised by well-developed cooperation, both bilaterally and in particular. now with our Northern Territory Dialogues – and multilaterally. Arctic Council is the central international cooperation body for discussing issues related to the Arctic, as Ivar Kristiansen pointed out. The Government is committed to continuing its work in order to further strengthen the Arctic Council’s international position as a precursor to issues relating to the Arctic. The Arctic Council is already playing a central role in political discussions and in initiatives leading to binding decisions in international organisations, such as: IMO. There is good cooperation between the five coastal states around the Arctic Ocean, and also in other forums, such as the Barents Council. In our neighbourhoods, extensive cooperation with Russia is central, and – as the representative says – tomorrow I will have talks on this in Moscow. Clear driving rules, safe navigation, predictability and good, close cooperation are important in order to avoid or mitigate potential security policy tensions resulting from increased activity and greater availability in the Arctic. In addition, high awareness and good knowledge of developments in the Arctic are important in a wider range. This is the background for me using and looking for opportunities to brief our allies, partners and other interested parties on broad and narrow developments. This applies to the entire strategic picture, including: to NATO, where we want to raise awareness and inform our allies in relation to the development in the north, thus contributing to a continued sober understanding of the situation in the alliance. The inter-pellant addresses various aspects related to increased international attention and strategies of other countries. In general, I would like to say that it is positive that other actors in international policy – states and organisations – are well aware of Norway’s interests, our policies and our strategies. Similarly, it is positive that other countries also express their thinking and ambitions. That is why we welcome the fact that other countries are presenting their strategies. In general, we can note two characteristics of the strategies presented: they reflect the position of individual countries — for example. Canada has a focus on north-west passenger relations, but we also see the emergence of significant common political and legal ideas, including: an emphasis on the central position of the International Law of the Sea. In recent years, we have been practicing active Norwegian diplomacy to engage in dialogue with other countries when developing their strategies. I believe we have come a long way. We've been out early, and we've had the goal of being clear, active and offensive. The growing interest in the north is not threatening or negative, either necessarily creating conflict. But we're going to aim that there's no ambiguity about fundamental rules and premises for cooperation. If this happens, there may be tensions as a result of increased activity, increased attention and perhaps increased competition. It is therefore in Norwegian interest that other countries have also developed and explored their strategies in the Arctic. This helps to create a common consciousness, up-to-date knowledge, greater transparency, clarity and predictability. So there are some clear, common features of the strategies that have been put forward, and let me end by mentioning some: the most important thing is that everyone attaches crucial importance to international cooperation and the importance of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea for the Management of the Arctic. They further point out that we do not need a new legal framework for the Arctic. Russia's strategy makes it clear that the law of the sea applies. Other common features are that sustainable management should be given high priority and that any oil and gas extraction should be based on the precautionary principle. The strategies further emphasise the need for the development of a good search and rescue system, a common desire for enhanced investment in climate research, the role of the Arctic Council as the pillars and the peaceful settlement of any disputes. As we see, this coincides with the main Norwegian priorities. On the other hand, I should not hide the fact that Norway has had to work actively to correct misunderstandings about the Arctic, especially about international law — such as the United Kingdom. That we can't think the same way about the Arctic as we think about Antarctica. This is nothing new, and since uncertainties about these conditions occur regularly, this work will continue to be a priority. Our aim is to contribute to the clarity of international law and responsibilities in the Arctic, and to contribute to the full implementation of maritime law. It is important, as noted, that the Arctic Council is highlighted as the central international cooperation body for the discussion of common challenges in the Arctic. But the Arctic Council membership circle is rather narrow, with only eight members and an equal number of permanent observers assigned a rather passive role. Several have applied for permanent observer status, including China, Japan and the European Commission. These are heavy political players. In order to ensure continued relevance and weight and to prevent the potential creation of competing cooperation channels, it is therefore Norwegian that we need to give observers a greater role in the Arctic Council. Yes, there must be a distinction between member and observer, but it should be in Norwegian interest that the Arctic Council remains the relevant forum – for more than eight members. I've used most of my post to focus on Arctic relations. The representative Kristiansen travels many interesting perspectives on the North Region's bet in all its parts. I refer then to the strategy papers presented by the Government, in particular ‘New Building Stones in the North’, which draw up the perspective of what the Government intends to do through a longer time perspective. I am open to take a debate on it, also as part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e294	I thank the Foreign Minister for his contributions. It is easy to join most of what the Minister of Foreign Affairs came up with in his reply. It will probably continue to be my request that work in the future, both the ministry and all the stakeholders around this north-eastern debate, is aimed at tightening up the understanding of the business idea of north-eastern politics itself, and that it does not become as comprehensive as anyone sees it as being. I do not expect the Foreign Minister to be able to answer all the challenges in ten minutes. I recorded that value creation policy was underlined, although he did not mention the word energy with any particular weight at all. But leave it in this context — it should and will become a natural part of the locomotive in the future in terms of the development of this area. For example, when we also see that the impact of the financial crisis has a major impact on progress, I believe that there will be a part of tomorrow's debate in Moscow between Mr Støre and his colleague. When I see that the Russian national product has fallen in the last year by close to 8 pst., that means that this will have consequences for the development of the pace in this region. Let me get a very short memory of our own way home. In recent years, we have seen that demographic developments are still the same. For example, in the last ten years we have had a population increase in this country of 7.2 pst. The northern part of the country has a decline of 0.2 pst. The numbers would be even worse if it hadn't been for taking into account adjustments and for having a significant element of asylum seekers and so-called new countrymen. Let me also say that I agree with the comments made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the strategies of other countries. I have one question that I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on. This is the EU's so-called Arctic strategy, which is being discussed in depth, and the EU is having a debate about putting in place a so-called Arctic Treaty. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether such a treaty will have cross-cutting interests, i.e. interests other than what will be the purely national interests of Norway for the so-called defined Northern Region policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e307	I notice that the representative Kristiansen warns against talking over the heads of people in the north. I've basically never experienced, when I've traveled north, that this debate goes over the heads of people in the north. They are drivers to bring this agenda up strategically, politically and concretely. People don't live on the sea, they live their lives mostly on land. I would therefore like to say that the worrying features of population development and demography that the representative rightly points to are striking the whole spectrum of policy. One of the things that made the biggest impression on me when we started working with the northern regions in 2005/2006 was that we were able to turn the course of the local economy, that it was political will to invest in another way. For small municipalities in Finnmark, it was crucial – between a very, very serious development and something else, with more hope and perspectives. Here we are inside the robbers of the entire policy, and that is how it should be. I agree with the representative that no policy area is worthy of being too comprehensive. But when we talk about the northern regions and the Arctic, there are so large geographical areas that we actually need to have some big geographical, strategic perspectives. Value creation is central, energy is central. I do it this way and refer to ‘New building blocks in the north’, which is a thorough report – on area by area, and how the Government aims to work. Here's value creation and energy all the way to the center. So the issue of the EU Arctic Strategy. The turmoil we had was that they were thinking of doing in the Arctic as in Antarctica. Many leading, thinking and sensible people in the EU have been of the opinion that we could use the Arctic Antarctic regime. Norway then argued strongly that there were fundamental differences. The Antarctic Treaty is unique – Antarctica is a large land mass in the middle of a sea, while the Arctic is a sea surrounded by coastal states. Because if there's ice on the top of the ocean, there's no less sea for that reason -- that's, the sea law applies. That's why we have to think about it. As long as it remains at the bottom, Norway is concerned with all measures that can improve sustainability, environmental protection and sensible resource development in the Arctic. On the other hand, whether a treaty is an appropriate instrument, I am more in doubt about it. I do not see that it is a tone-setting theme in the European Union circles anymore. There was, far on the way, in the European Parliament in previous phases, but there was no prominent place in the final reading of the European Parliament. In the Council's own strategy, the idea – as far as I have been able to read it – has been abandoned. So what I see as the challenge is that we have the framework in place, and then we have to have policies and regulatory developments at the top. It has to be done in the IMO, it has to be done in regional bodies, it has to be done in our ability to conduct search and rescue, coastal surveillance, define rules, in the Norwegian Veritas, in the Norwegian Polar Institute, which is carrying out transfer of competences, in cooperation with Russia on health, environmental and safety standards in the Barents Sea – a long, wide range of such measures. But the basis is in place. There is a treaty – that is the Treaty of the Law of the Sea – and I do not think we need a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e318	The possibilities and challenges in the north are many, and they are very different. That is why the Northern Region policy must also have a broad approach, not a narrower approach, as Mr Kristiansen calls for. The government's North-Area effort has both a national and an international side, and the two must necessarily be linked. We only succeed in taking care of the environment, getting more knowledge of climate change, fighting poaching and using resources in the north if we are active in the international arena to seek cooperation and to test our role as a central administrator in the north. The Minister of Foreign Affairs deserves recognition that he always carries the northern areas of the suitcase when he's out traveling in the big world. At the same time, the government's bet has a recognition that there is little help in renewing the Coast Guard fleet and first-class knowledge of polar bears if we don't have a living Northern Norwegian part of the country. Facilitating the positive development of coastal communities, cities and communities in the north is the strongest expression that we are serious about our presence in the north. Therefore, it is both correct and important that the Northern Region Initiative of the Government also contains many measures directly targeted at the national part of the country – such as research, infrastructure, towing boat preparedness, marine bio-prospecting and all the other measures for the development of industry that have been or have been launched. The most important thing that has happened in the last five years, I think, is that North Norway has regained its confidence, its faith in the future and its ambitions. It is fundamentally positive that it is now focused on development rather than on crisis packages. When you travel around North Norway, you can see a lot of examples that it's useful. Hammerfest was a refugee town ten years ago; it is now a community that flourishes. The churches have had the same positive development as a result of the fact that there is a border town where there is a commitment to cooperation with Russia. But even if you visit the fish cake producer in the municipality of Karlsøy, you will see that you have regained optimism, because you are now going to have an extended road link. Poaching in the Barents Sea, which was a serious threat to the Barents Sea ecosystem five years ago, is now, as it were, no longer a phenomenon. At the same time, of course, we should not underestimate the challenges facing the Arctic and Northern Norway in the coming years. There are many and very different challenges that need to be addressed and that will require stayability over time, whether we are talking about climate change, absenteeism in high school, developing mining industry and living side by side with traditional industries, taking care of Sami languages, or addressing population development along the coast, to mention some examples. It is enough to address politicians who will – both in the international arena, here in the Stortinget and in local policy. Then I also want to commend the representative of Kristiansen for having raised this interpellation debate today. He is an active north-eastern debater, and in those debates he often asks for things from the government parties. But even after the round we've had here, it's unclear to me what the Right Will is different from what the Government has implemented. I would like to ask the representative of Kristiansen to clarify whether the Right has an alternative north-area policy for the government leading, in addition to what is the opposition's privilege, that of having a million extra in the sleeve for all good purposes. The representative Kristiansen himself mentioned the decline in the population in the north, and I would therefore ask him to explain how he believes that the right-hand side would depend on market power and private solutions in the field of school and health, and how he believes that cutting billions of agricultural aid will affect the agricultural industry in the north. With the upsurge that the Right Party and the Progress Party have in the polls at present, it is also natural to ask whether the Right Party is behind the policy of the Progress Party towards North Norway, which is to a very large extent about reducing the Nordic voice by reducing the number of Northern Norse majorities, bringing down the Sameting, bringing down the county councils and suffocating local democracy by cutting the North Norway grant. The results we see in North Norway have not come about by themselves, and unlike the Right Party and the Advance Party, I have no faith that the market alone will ensure neither presence nor the application of the fantastic opportunities that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e339	It's great to have a debate on the north. Let me start by giving tribute to the representative Kristiansen for putting it on the agenda. Let me also start by giving tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs because he has established the term ‘High North – low tension’, which I think is positive. But in such a debate, at least I think that one of the most important things to talk about are those who live in the continent, and their commitment and opportunities to be with and shape their own future. You might say a lot weird about northerners, but they're much easier to play with than to play against. I think when we're going to discuss, we have to have that fact with us. I believe that the reason why the deportation is not greater, is, to use that term, the very ability to “stand by”: Even when things are at their hardest, the northerners see the light in the tunnel – no matter how dark it is, and how long it is. I think it's about the ability to see and use the continent, and they want to be on it. And as long as you involve them, they will certainly stand still and contribute to the best of their ability. If you move the perspective a little bit and think about what the northern regions are, at least I and the Progress Party believe that one of the most important things is the geopolitical location, because it's interesting, it's attractive, and it affects to a large extent how we as a nation have it – not least in relation to the resources that exist. The balance between resource use and protection is also very important in this context, and, as the Foreign Minister and the representative of Kristiansen were involved, the development of other countries' strategies to those degrees affects ours too. Here I believe that the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have chosen a sensible solution by seeing what other countries are doing and to a large extent trying to influence different national strategies, so that they are as consistent as possible with ours. Clearly, the more common interests, the easier it is to get through what we want. But in this there are other elements that are important. One of them is dubious sovereignty. If we're going to be, we're going to call it, a power power in the north with other big neighbors, we have to show that we mean something by that. Then we have to use the land, the sea and the resources in a way, and we have to show that we are willing to stand upright and actually show muscles if needed in terms of fisheries surveillance and other conditions that could threaten our sovereignty. We're a member of NATO. This means that Norway is the outer boundary of NATO's territory, and in this way it challenges us militaryly also against our neighbor in the east. That is why, at least, I believe that having a good dialogue and a good relationship with Russia will undoubtedly help to strengthen our own interests. It's good that there are many different forums, because I think the best premise to maintain peace and focus is cooperation. Cooperation usually provides much better solutions than a directive does. In that way, it's good to have good partners. And that we've looked at what Denmark and Greenland are doing, what Canada is doing, what Russia and what the United States are doing, is important to us, because all of them are interested in the same area. So I think the possibilities are there. Nor do I perceive that the representative Ivar Kristiansen is extremely divided in the government's policy in this area. I perceive it more so that he wants to clarify what we actually mean by it. So creating a disagreement about the focus, I don't think I serve the north areas, and it doesn't serve the debate around it either. On one of my tours in Finnmark, I learned a concept that I think is great. I met people like the chat about Tjukk-Norge – i.e. from Trondelag and southwards where Norway is the widest. What they said to me was that the problem was that people who live in Tjuk-Norway look south when they see opportunities. They are usually EU-oriented, and markets are in the south – but as a consequence they turn their backs on us, they said. They actually had a good point here with that very point. It is possible that it is said in a banal way, but it is said very easily, and therefore I think it is very good that you sometimes turn your eyes, party your eyes northward and look at the possibilities you have there, and actually focus on them. It is also the way to implement your own plans and visions that you have to have budgets. I will not take a long budget debate with the previous speaker here on framework conditions and financial assumptions, but even today's government does want to do more than it has done so far. You have budgets that don't always, at least at my discretion, have a big enough framework to do everything you want to do. We could have discussed sailing days, and we could have discussed other things. I don't want to go into such a level of detail, but there's something about it that when you have a vision, there has to be a relationship between the visions you have and the ability to implement them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e365	The representative, Ivar Kristiansen, is looking at an international development that is of great importance to Norway. The increased interest in the northern regions is both a major advantage and a challenge for Norway and our North Region initiative. But it creates focus. The representative Kristiansen probably knows about the increased commitment of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last week the transport committee was in Paris. It was also the Minister for Foreign Affairs who spoke to the Parliament in France about the Norwegian North Sea bet. That's interesting. The strategy of Russia for the Arctic, as the Norwegian North Sea Strategy, focuses on the management and exploitation of natural resources. A general objective of the Russian strategy is to make the Arctic the main strategic base for natural resources in Russia by 2020. The strategy also includes an objective to establish the boundaries of the country’s continental shelf by 2015. At the same time, the Russians, like Norway, have defence policy ambitions. The Russian strategy was aimed at establishing increased military capacity and presence in the Arctic that could assert national interests in the various military and political situations. Of course, what this means for Norway depends on other developments in the area, in Russia and Russian operationalisation of its own objectives. However, this increases the importance of achieving our objectives in the long-term plan of defence and the government declaration of deepening Norwegian presence – that the coastguard sails, that the presence of the navy in the north is being increased as a preventive measure and clarifies Norway’s area of interest, and that in our approach to Russia we contribute to low tension and ensure full implementation of the law of the sea. Contributing to low voltage may be Norway’s most important mole when acting in the range between the different countries’ objectives in the Arctic. The interest of the powers in our neighbourhoods can both increase the level of tension and dampen it. The interest of the United States, seen in the light of a more confident Russia, is basically unfavorable for Norway and something we should seek to stimulate. This has become more clear with the new administration in the United States. In the context of NATO’s new strategic concept and through the neighbourhood initiative, the Government has taken important political action on the international arena, which ensures Norway’s view of the needs of security policy joint actions in the coming years. In my view, the approach of the government to the North Region bet has been quite correct. Focusing on the north via all relevant departments, increasing investment in land value creation, so that there are opportunities for the people of the north, and increasing investment in research – climate research and environmental research – is absolutely right if we are to ensure good opportunities for the future also in this fantastically fine part of the country that we have. We believe that increased value creation and good management of resources should be at the forefront, but that it is through an overall commitment of both military and civil protection, a population living in the region, and increased value creation on land that we secure Norway's position in the north and stimulates the positive development of a great part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e382	In the past, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has asked us to look at the North Region bet in a generation perspective. For the sake of order, I'm going to have to admit that this north-eastern inhabitants also have a generation perspective on their involvement with the continent. I record that some people in the south speak of themselves as the new wine. I'm not going to be so pompous, but I'd like to tell you that in this debate I'm going to participate. It is a little important to make it clear that a generation perspective does not involve a cut-off in the bet and that it is now necessary to clarify the bet. It tells us that it's time we started building the district. It has also been said that knowledge should be the hub of the bet. Then I ask you to look at knowledge in relation to the reality we're facing. Both the part of the country and the nation of Norway need a level of competence. For the whole nation, this will mean a rise in knowledge of the northern regions. Here the government's somewhat foggy geographical delimitation fits in, because the northern regions can most often be seen as'something up there', can be seen as, as has been said, something out there in the sea – or, as the Council of State has now said, something big. For this part of the country, this requires an exceptional level of competence ranging from heavy investment in primary and secondary education to a commitment to creating healthy research and education environments in close relation to a changed business life in – I will get more precise – the part of the country. The people of the North Callot have lived in peaceful coexistence for several decades. Regardless of – or because of – the Russian Revolution, World War II or the Cold War, the population of Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia has developed and implemented countless cross-border projects. These people of the people's activities constitute much of the foundation of the good relationship Norway can point out today when we look at Russia. I want to ask that we continue this way. But it assumes, in my opinion, that we are willing to do two steps. The overall international efforts must continue to a large extent as they are at present. There's not much disagreement about that. At the same time, in my opinion, it is important to concretely state that at home it is our job to build the country. This process of construction involves, as I said earlier, an extraordinary commitment to knowledge. In addition, it is important that we promise the development of infrastructure, transport, communication, etc. The third step will be to make use of this competence and infrastructure by establishing jobs and businesses that create a whole in the north as well. It is important to clarify that broadband communications can actually go both ways. It does not always require the centralisation of services. My message is that there is a clear distinction between the overall international message and the national construction process we need in the north. I basically agree with Helga Pedersen that we have the confidence we need. We just have to have tools to be as changeable as we need to be. To do this, we need frameworks that allow us to do the job. From an energy point of view, the changes we are now looking at on the Russian side will lead to at least a break, and perhaps a longer break, in the Russian energy building in the north. This allows Norway to take a seat in the driver’s seat. When it comes to the Shtokman expansion, many wise heads say that we've gotten a little behind us. Now we have the opportunity to build the continent, build industry, build environments of competence and expand energy environments, which can once again put us in the driving seat in terms of development in the Barents Sea. I believe that both the Barents Sea, Norway and the North will serve this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e401	First, thank you to Kristiansen, who are promoting this important matter. It is important to keep us up-to-date on how Norwegian targets and interests are in relation to Arctic strategies of other key actors. With knowledge of the objectives and strategies of other actors, we can also see where there is a basis for building alliances – to strengthen common goals and interests and to bring together support for our view where there are contradictions of interest. The Christian People's Party has a strong commitment to Northern Region policy. At the same time, we have worked for consensus on the main objectives when we have dealt with in this Chamber the big papers and strategies that have been put forward in this area, first by the Second Government of Bondevik and later by the sitting government. Nordic policy must be based on knowledge. Therefore, we need systematic research on climate change, on the environment and on the sustainable use of renewable resources in the north. And we have to make sure that other activities do not cause irreparable damage to the vulnerable Arctic environment. With increasing ice-free areas in summer time, shipping and other activities in these northern regions will only grow, and we need to ensure that they provide positive and lasting ring-effects for land-based economic activities. At the same time, we must ensure the culture and the basis of life of people who belong in these areas. We must also respect Norwegian sovereignty. It requires monitoring of sea areas and the ability to deal with accidents and crisis situations. Together, this gives many good reasons to strengthen cross-border cooperation. The term ‘north regions’ is not unique. In the past, there has been a tendency to focus on the near areas in the north, such as: areas around Svalbard and the Barents region, and in Norway and Russia. But we have to have a more holistic arctic perspective. Canada has huge areas that stretch far north. Also the United States, with the state of Alaska, has a border with the Arctic Ocean. When we bring Denmark including Greenland, there will be a total of five countries that have coastlines bordering the Arctic – Norway, Denmark including Greenland, Canada, the United States and Russia. When we draw such a circle around the northern regions, the expression ‘the Circumpolar Arctic’ makes sense. In the Arctic family, there is a distinction between the five coastal states directly bordering the Arctic Ocean and other states that consider themselves stakeholders. The five members of the Arctic family had an important meeting in 2008, as mentioned by the Council of State in its statement, focusing on the Law of the Sea and the Arctic. Coastal states have rights and obligations in accordance with the law of the sea, but Icelanders, who also have strong interests in the northern regions, are not dissatisfied with the fact that these five coastal states meet without their participation. Looking at all the countries involved in research on Svalbard, it is clear that many countries – both majorities and smaller states – have an interest in gaining knowledge and knowing about the opportunities in the northern regions, and with several interested actors, the Arctic Council has an important role to play. As pointed out in this debate, a number of countries, including the United States, Russia, the EU, Denmark and Iceland, have recently developed their own Arctic strategies. It makes it important for us to build alliances and develop good relations with these countries. Norway has long and strong traditions in the north, and we need to take care of both our ambitions and our obligations in the important northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e416	The representative of Kristiansen, as several have said, is travelling an important debate, and there is no unknown debate. The main essence of the interpellant’s questions is to gain a clearer understanding of the scope of the Northern Territory concept. First of all, I would like to say that our coastal area is very long, it is far-reaching, and it is a very solid and great responsibility from the political point of view to manage these major and important areas. One of course depends on having international legal order to keep this in check and maintain it. We are also totally dependent on international cooperation, especially through the UN. Contributing to the development of the international legal community is important here, and that's where we have our core interests. Important emphasis has been placed on international cooperation and the importance of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea for the Management of the Arctic. We also point out that there is no need for a new legal framework for the Arctic. This has also been said by the Sea Law Commission, and Russia has also clearly stated this with its strategies for what is going to happen in the north. We can go back to the overall management plan for the Barents Sea and Lofoten. It lays down the major environmental framework conditions for sustainable development in this area. There have been many important external changes since the Government first presented its main lines of Northern Region policy. But there is one thing that may have come more surprising to us than any of us at the time predicted, namely the meltdown of the police, what is happening in this area. The latest research results indicate a faster meltdown than has been seen in the past. It is therefore important that we have more thoughts in our head at the same time, that we can slow down this negative development, and that climate work is given at least as high priority as it has been to now. Many focus on increased opportunities for economic activity in petroleum, fisheries and shipping and that the new ice-free areas can be made available for the exploitation of new renewable and non-renewable natural resources. This in turn puts new perspectives and new dimensions within the future thinking. It is precisely here that Norway now needs to strike the balance between the overall climate objective and the preservation of Norwegian interests in the north and keep it in focus. Shorter shipping routes can now be opened to Asia and America, and in a few decades, perhaps even earlier, economic activity in the Arctic may be under increased pressure. I feel that the Norwegian government, especially with the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the head, has put this in focus internationally. I am happy to be in international forums, among others. in NATO, where they refer to Norway’s management of these areas and to Norway’s grip and dynamism, and it is a pleasure to be involved. This makes other nations wake up and see that they have their interests. But there are no conflicts here, we're going to add up to having a cooperation. Nordic policy requires us to understand what is fixed and what is changing. The challenges, including safety, are increasingly linked to climate, environment, energy, fisheries and maritime transport. This is where it lies, and this is where we have to be on the track, as I feel we are today. But, as I said at the outset, we need to have more thoughts in our heads when we talk about Northern Region policy, have a whole strategy. I was a little surprised when Kristiansen in his last sentence mentioned this with the whole, and then jolted happily at the fact that you have to build a total infrastructure in North Norway, make it much better both on land and in the sea. There is no point in making budget proposals on tax relief and the reduction of infrastructure measures – a weak local economy, a decline in research, infrastructure, etc. This isn't a whole plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e436	The representative Ivar Kristiansen addresses a very topical topic, on which it will also be a major focus in the future. There is little doubt that, in particular, the United States and Russia have a strategic geopolitics, of which Norway is an important part, but which it may seem as if we are not taking as seriously. If one also sees that the Arctic Ocean is opening up, both China and Japan will contribute to the need for Norway to change its north-eastern strategy. So how important is Norway to our environment? Norway has the right to have large sea areas that undoubtedly affect our major powers, sea areas rich in both fish and petroleum, which the Russians put into a political context. Our marine areas can be said to be a bond of conflict transport, which is why a maritime law agreement is very important. Also, the fact that you can expect an increase in traffic on the route, perhaps also a new route, means that there will be a need for presence. Once the Shtokman field is ready to produce sometime in the future, there will certainly be a need for increased preparedness. Our marine areas and the Arctic are vulnerable environments, and preparedness and presence are necessary. We should continue the good dialogue already under way by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and cooperate with Russia, because we have very similar interests. There can therefore be no doubt that we must have the opportunity to protect our marine areas in the north. If you see the globe from above, you see how strategic Norway is actually located and what we have to protect. That is why we must have capacities that can quickly reach conflict areas in the north, if necessary. There has been a debate on Nordic defence cooperation in the north through the Stoltenberg report, but this must come as a complement when, as a nation, we no longer have the opportunity to protect our own areas. NATO can probably help us up there to some extent, but then we'll probably need a little bit better interaction with NATO nationally. Now the Foreign Minister may think that I see the hell on the bright day, but there is no doubt that Norway's northern sea areas are also very interesting areas for the European Union. We have already seen that some fishermen in the European Union do not care very much about who has the right to what. So we can't write off the territorial conflict capability. It is therefore interesting to hear what plans the Minister for Foreign Affairs has, both in terms of strategic efforts in our northern regions, which he responded to in his main contribution, and also whether he has thought of a more geopolitical strategy similar to that of the United States, Russia and the EU. The areas are important, and we should and should be prepared to fight for the ownership of our marine areas in the north in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e451	The President must be allowed to say that it is more common to say, for example. ‘some man at daylight day’ or, where appropriate, use the term ‘see ghosts at daylight day’, which is probably the most common term. We have to stick to parliamentary vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e454	This has been an exciting debate. I think it is uplifting that in recent years the northern regions have been stronger and stronger in the debate – not only here in the United Kingdom, but also in the press, in organisations, in businesses, in research environments and not least among the inhabitants of our long-term country. This engages most people. We can all record great impatience after continuing to develop this amazing area to find out how the huge resources here can be used properly. I also have nothing against the impatience of the Right and the rest of the opposition from time to time, but it would have been better if they had made good suggestions and not only repeated the old lesson about much more, much faster. I would say that not even in history has so much happened before and with the northern areas that since we put in place today's staggering plurality and the government Stoltenberg started their work. So let's label this one that lives in the northern part of the country. The government has really got this on the agenda, both nationally and internationally, since it started its work in 2005. When we see which place the debate on the northern regions has also taken place internationally, this clearly tells us what interests these areas are covered by. Through my work in the Nordic Council over the last two major periods, I have seen how interest in the northern regions has become stronger. In particular, the debate has been further reinforced since the report on Nordic cooperation in foreign and security policy was presented by former State Council Thorvald Stoltenberg. This report has triggered a commitment to cross-border cooperation that I am sure will produce results for the northern regions as a whole. The Nordic cooperation on Arctic issues is central to the Stoltenberg report. Climate change and ice melting in the Arctic give us challenges, but also opportunities. We know that this gives us new opportunities for new East-West leaders, which, in turn, can provide the basis for new and extensive industrial development as well as the important local industries we already have. Thorvald Stoltenberg, in its report, says that the Arctic area is an indicator of global climate change and that the current ice smelting is having a significant impact on the activity in the region, and that this in turn means that natural resources become more readily available with the consequences that this may have for this vulnerable marine environment. These are opportunities and challenges that come faster than any of us would have expected a relatively short time ago. This will set new and major requirements for marine surveillance and preparedness, which must also mean that we must apply the most advanced technology available, and this must be done in a relatively near future. Cross-border cooperation and strategies are needed in order to make use of the opportunities offered by these new ice-free areas, while at the same time preserving the environment and nature of this vulnerable area in the best way possible, as many others have experienced in today's debate. The northern regions are so undoubtedly the area of opportunity. I believe that when the government said almost five years ago that the northern regions are its most important strategic field, this tells us that we have a government that is predictable and that in retrospect has apparently followed up with important steps. Here the Foreign Minister has played a very important role, and I share the priorities he draws up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e473	Thank you to the representative Ivar Kristiansen, who has raised this important issue for debate here in the Stortinget. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the Svalbard Treaty, to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, to international law in general and to the sea areas under Norwegian jurisdiction. All of this is very important. It concerns the management of large sea areas. These are international agreements. But all of this will be of little value if Norway does not manage to maintain a readiness and presence in these marine areas of which there is respect. So we're talking about sea areas of the order of 2.5 million square kilometers. To illustrate: if you add France and Germany and multiply by two, it's still a little bit before the size is equal to the Norwegian sea areas in the north. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence recently visited the General Command of the Defence Force at Retan, Bodø, and we were clearly informed that there are no budgets or trained personnel whatsoever to mannify the five frigates that Norway will have in the future. It's true to say budgets and educated teams to have maybe one and a half frigate daily operations, i.e. one frigate all the time and one more in parts of the day. This means that we have not been given any strategy by the Government as to how the frigates should operate in order to represent the presence in these sea areas necessary for Norway to assert its domination over it. That is why I miss attention on this part of the Government. I lack interest and enthusiasm to build up a military presence from the Norwegian side that is sufficient for Norway to do its job in the north in the future. In terms of presence, we can also talk about the development of the people, which is a very important matter the representative Ivar Kristiansen has mentioned. Because that's not what some people think, that we, in what the representative Ellingen calls Tjuk-Norway, think it's good for the people of North Norway to evolve in a negative direction. It is a major disadvantage for Norway as a whole that the development of the population has not been more positive than it has been in northern Norway in recent times. The representative, Helga Pedersen, makes a visit to the Progress Party and says that the Progress Party is not able to present any strategy to do anything about this other than shut down the Sameting, reduce the number of large-scale representatives from North Norway and shut down the county councils. But it's not the Sametinget and the county council the Norse population lives on. They live on a competitive business that can produce goods and services that can be sold in an open market. It is therefore important for the Government to present a strategy for making it easier to establish business, modernise it and develop it further, in order to develop North Norway as a robust and economically independent region in the future, so that both the nutrient base and population development are better than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e486	It's an important debate we're witnessing today. As you will probably hear, I come from an area in the country that has many names, North Norway, Northern Ireland or as in this debate, the northern regions – dear children have many names. The northern regions, or North Norway, if you like, have been struggling for decades to get the recognition that I think we deserve. North Norway is the continent of opportunity with a future without equal. A large part of the country's value creation takes place in the northern regions and will continue to take place there in the future. We have a lot of great and profitable industry in the north. We have great fishing resources that we manage in an excellent way, both farming industry and more traditional fishing industries. We have northern lights, we have dark times, and we have bright summer nights. We have mountains falling into the ocean, we have North Cape, we have Lofoten, and we have Helgeland, to name some of the great places. We have natural assumptions that attract travel-loving people from all over the world. In addition to nature, we have the unique North Norwegian hospitality. It has to be allowed to boast a little bit of what we have in the north. Yes, I dare say that some of the most exciting things about travel will happen in our northern part of the country in the years ahead. We're also going to be involved in this. In addition, in the north we are only in the start-up phase when it comes to harvesting and future value creation related to the petroleum deposits in the north. The 2006 management plan for these marine areas provided an important framework for this activity in the years to come — a plan to be rolled and updated in 2010. In addition, exciting things are being done in connection with the work of clarifying with the Russians in view of the controversial maritime areas in the Barents Sea. I would like to take this opportunity to commend Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre on the important clarification work in relation to the Russians. We can clearly track progress in this work, and it's incredibly important. We cannot discuss the north without discussing the climate challenges. Few sites, if any, climate change is clearer than in these areas. We know that a proportion of the members of the U.S. Senate have already been in these areas to take climate change into account themselves. One thing is to read reports and investigations about what's happening, something quite different is to see it with your own eyes. Svalbard and other suitable areas in our northern regions are unique in their ability to see for themselves what is happening. Norway is at the forefront of the world’s fight against climate change. We have a unique opportunity to let world leaders take responsibility for this by seeing for themselves what is happening. This puts our northern regions into a new strategic perspective in the international work that world leaders will be working on every single day of the years ahead. We have some challenges compared to the rest of the country. One of the main challenges in the north is the negative population development and age composition of the population. In the last 50 years, the population in the country as a whole has increased by 1.3 million. Of these, only 25 000 have been increased in northern Norway or in northern areas. Geographically, the area is half Norway, but the population is only 9.7 pst. The reason for this, of course, is complex, but the main reason is probably access to jobs in the area. The business life of the northern regions is very largely based on the natural resources of the region. This applies to fisheries, energy, ores and minerals as well as to the metal industry. The main strategy of the Northern Region initiative must be to contribute to industrial development and to new and exciting jobs in both the private and public sectors – to understand that private business depends on a good public sector, and not least that the public sector depends on a good private business that creates values and provides tax access to municipalities and county municipalities. I want to mention Hammerfest here. You don't reach everything in a post, but I've tried to point to single points in relation to the unique future of our northern regions. I'm optimistic, both in relation to the future in the north and in terms of our ability to solve the climate challenges. We have a government that is offensive in many areas. It makes me full of confidence in the future and optimism, not only in the northern part of the country, but in the whole nation. Yeah, we'll get him off!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e507	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing the northern regions as a theme here in Stortinget. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and complementary answer. On the part of the Centre Party, we are working both actively to assert our strategic interests in the north and to facilitate a stronger development in North Norway. We are therefore in favour of a stronger focus on contributing to economic development on land, and that this is emphasised in Soria Moria II. Initially, I would like to pay tribute to the Government for its positive progress in a number of areas and focussed on increased contact with our neighbouring countries in the north, in particular with Russia. This contact is valuable and an important basis for further development in the area. The northern regions are the country's most important strategic area. This is clearly reflected in the long-term announcement of the Defence Agency, where this government has shown great willingness to move important institutions in the Defence Northwards. In this context, I would like to mention the establishment of the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence Force on Retan outside Bodø, the transfer of the Inspector-General of the Army to Bardufoss, Bardufoss as the main base for the helicopter and the increased deployment of coastguards and frigates. I have noticed that prominent members of the Right do not agree with this move of important defence institutions northwards. In particular, I noticed that right-wing members in the election campaign actively went out in the media and announced a rematch on the establishment of the FOHK at Reitan. It could have been very interesting to get the representative's view on this. The centre party is also concerned that when we are to assert our rights in areas in the north, settlement and development on land in northern Norway are absolutely crucial. We have used this understanding when the government has tripled the pace of road construction in the National Transport Plan, which is the road traffic of times in the north. For business and housing in the north, willingness to invest in infrastructure is essential. The government is now following up this investment with a large-scale investment on the tribal roads and has given the counties the opportunity to make a major effort to upgrade the county roads and to realise a number of heavy initial investment projects in the transport sector. In Troms, we look forward to an improvement of E6 through Nord-Troms and an improvement of E8 from Tromsø to the Finnish border. In addition, we look forward to the realization of the Halogalandsbrua, which will lead to a much closer interaction between the cities of Harstad and Narvik and the possibility of increased value creation. A number of county roads will make a major difference for industry in the north. In particular, this fishing industry is a support beam along the coast. The government has also strengthened the economy of the counties and the ability to be regional development actors and has made targeted efforts to strengthen the knowledge environments in the north, in particular through research in the north. In addition, the efforts of Innovation Norway and SIVA have also been strengthened. As one of the major industries of the future, tourism in the north has been promised by this government. In the autumn of 2007, Åslaug Haga, the former municipal minister, challenged the travel life of the northern part of the country to the coordinated marketing of North Norway as a destination. The national section took this challenge seriously. I myself had the pleasure of participating in the National Committee on Travel Life that made the model for the new Nordic travel company. On 1 January 2010, the company was in place, and the government has set aside 50 million. NOK at the disposal of this company for the profiling of North Norway abroad. In addition, the Government will make an additional 15 million. kr via Innovation Norway for the same purpose. The next challenge is getting more direct flights from abroad to North Norway to get more foreign tourists into the country. Here, the district is working on establishing air route funds, which are absolutely necessary to establish such direct routes. Destination development and empowerment are other important areas that are also being worked on to get a real boost for travel life in North Norway. According to NHO Travel Life, today there are 18,300 people employed in travel in the north, and there is a far greater potential for both employment and value creation in the industry. Government investment in the north has led to a number of concrete results for Defence, transport, knowledge and industrial development, and not least to optimism and belief in the future. In the further investment, industrial development on land will be even more central, and I look forward to following the work of the Government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e537	First, thank you for a good response to the interpellation and for a dedicated debate. The fact that some of the tribute numbers have gone quite far may not be very surprising – nor is it that the Right is served some little fine, it belongs in any fight. It's definitely not that we, like the Nordahl representative, are talking about "rematch" in terms of the location of the operating headquarters. No one in the Right is talking about anymore. However, my aim to address this interpellation has been to provide a tighter definition of the concept of ‘national north-eastern policy’. And I think I'm on safe ground when I do this. In fact, since the Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to the document ‘New building blocks in the north’, the Prime Minister’s foreword – and I quote – ‘the need for further development of our Northern Region strategy is greater than ever’. This was written a long time ago. And I think we have a cross-political approach to this challenge. I don't know if the representative Helga Pedersen listened to my first post. She demanded what the Right would. I think it came out quite clearly. The concept of ‘energy’, energy investment in any sense, ‘infrastructure’, and the ability of the northern region to become Europe’s future stable and secure energy supplier, will lead to huge investments, which can create an area of this geographical area without equal in the future. It was referred to Hammerfest in this context as an example. And since the representative Nordtun said that we must have an international anchoring, it is well in the area we have actually succeeded best – and succeeded better than Nordtun himself in his mention of the Right Tax Policy. Nordtun might be able to bring with it the success of Rogaland – Rogaland, who was given the opportunity, and who got a ‘go’ going political. The population of Rogaland, the home country of North Thun, has increased by the entire population of Troms and half of Finland since 1960, because Rogaland was given this opportunity. Energy was the keyword there, and that's what we from the Right are asking when we now ask for the time window to open, so that we can get started in the north of this area. I am very pleased that we in Stortinget have also established an Arctic Council, so that the knowledge and inter-political commitment of this area can develop. I look forward to the further follow-up to the debate in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e550	I should also like to thank the debate and congratulate the inter-pellant. I think it's through this kind of debate that we're actually clarifying and defining the understanding of strategy and direction, so I want to thank everyone for their contribution to it. We have great ambitions for Northern Region policy in this period. I mean the building blocks – I keep coming back to them, and I'm glad that the representative Kristiansen referred to them and held us responsible for what's standing there – provides a very good starting point for how we're going to work on this. It's broadly anchored, it's good affiliation here in the Stortinget. And it's important -- it'll be my main point here -- that this is a bet in the north of the whole country. This debate – no wonder – has been dominated by representatives from the north, from Tynn-Norway, if you want to pursue the concepts here, while from Tjuk-Norway we have been a bit on the underside. But it's like everybody's looking to the north, and I think it's terribly important in the North Region bet that there's a bet that everyone in Norway owns, and that, in fact, geographically, people outside Norway are also involved in raising it. If we are to succeed in knowledge, it would be totally paradoxical if we were not to draw on all the experience of the Rogaland environment in energy, from the commercial environment in Bergen, from the technological environment in Tromsø, etc. etc. It'll be fun if it's just going to be in a focus defined north of one line that we're going to mobilise to bet in the north, which is such an important part of Norway. But it should be ownership and anchoring in the north. I think we've done it in the last period. Then we had a useful selection of experts, led by the principal at the University of Tromsø, who gave advice and input to the Government. We are now working to establish a value creation panel, which will bring value creation experiences and needs into the government's work on this field. The representatives of the Progress Party were concerned with the defence dimension, and that is important. Clearly, it is a challenge to ensure that we have enough people and enough skills to sail our ships. But I think that in a short time we can say that Norway has the most modern marine capacity in the north, with new vessels and with new capacity. But it's important to give priority. What I want to warn you about, on the other hand, is what Mr Woldseth says about ‘we have to fight about ownership’ to our regions in the north. Well, we need to be clear, if necessary, through a military defence and an alliance to fight for what is ours, but my starting point, with the emphasis on the law of the sea and the established treaties, is that what is ours is ours. There are no open territorial battles in the north where there is now a struggle to captivate land and gain sovereignty. That is why it is important to follow up the Treaty of the Law of the Sea, to map the continental shelf and to solve outstanding issues. In the last period we drew straight lines in all sea areas in the north of Norway, with one exception: the still outstanding dividing line with Russia, where we now also have constructive work. But I thank you for the debate and welcome to continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e561	With that, the debate on substance is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e577	There is a great need for a complete review of the network policy, both domestically and Europeanly. Right has been a driver for trying to get a debate on this issue before, but it's been hard. If Norway is to be a power of pure renewable energy, it is crucial to have sufficient and secure grid capacity. Energy and economic development are linked. Having a goal of speeding up this development is an important question if a supernet along the coast and to Europe is the key to achieving such a goal. In the EU today, there is an important debate on a ‘supergrid’ in Europe. Norway is also invited to join these discussions. It is very gratifying to see that the Minister has today signed a Memorandum of Cooperation to strengthen regional cooperation on marine network development in the North Sea. I hope this can also be the start of developing a Norwegian supernet along the coast. Both the Government and the Storting have said that one will facilitate a strong commitment to renewable energy. How this force is to be distributed, and who is the consumer, we need an answer to the urgent need, so that we can start planning and expanding the next generation of power networks. It is very important to ask questions about how we aim for our power generation. I'm just going to have a national perspective. to count on consumption and production and to be sufficient for ourselves? Or are we going to have a bigger perspective, a global perspective? And so we put the following energy realities at the bottom: For our own security of supply, it is important that we have both a reasonable deployment of energy, and that we have sufficient online capacity both domestically and abroad. The world needs more energy, and it needs to be renewable, according to the climate challenges that will come. Norway has a major theoretical potential to increase our renewable energy production, when it concerns the further development of our hydropower resources and wind power both at land and at sea. Norway has a unique technological and economic potential to develop other renewable energy such as wave power, thermal heat, saline power station and tidal water etc. If we are willing to facilitate such a bet and think that this will also represent a future industrial potential for Norwegian operators, this could be a formidable cheek egg: Norway contributes renewable energy to the world and is thus helping to reduce climate change. We are further developing our role as energy tower power and a stable energy supplier in Europe. We get big and forward-looking value creation, industrialization and business development. If we choose this option, it means that we have to access a larger market, i.e. extraterrestrials, and we have to have framework conditions that trigger new production. The disadvantages of such an option may be that there will be a higher electricity price, and we may need to use expensive tools to subsidise new production. How can this affect the price of power, and will we get higher power accounting due to greater capacity against Europe? Energy efficiency improvement will be the new focus area. We already see that in the debates in the European Union. That means that even though the force might be more expensive, we'll consume less. New technologies and intelligent energy management systems will come, and that also means lower consumption. For a normal user, lower consumption may compensate for higher prices. We can import cheap energy at night when the windmills produce too full and Europe sleeps. Today we can export 6 pst. of our production. Even with a doubling of the cable connection, the capacity will not be more than 12 pst. There is an open question about how this will affect the price. More expensive electricity in Europe than in Norway is the whole intention of becoming a hall out of the country. There are many reasons why we have to sort out a supernet along the coast and cables to Europe. We have to make a choice if we are to ‘lock’ the electricity inside Norway, or if we are to supply Europe with pure renewable energy. Cables to Europe mean both exports and imports of electricity. Large capacity towards Europe will generate large revenues for the state and owners of power generation and grid lines. The new cable connection to the Netherlands had an income of 200 million. NOK 2 months and will be paid in four to five years. With a lifetime of 50–60 years, this is a good impression that these are very large investments. Although this cable is currently out of service, it has been a success. If there are more cables both to the continent and to the United Kingdom, it will also open up in order to electrify the base much more than what has been planned for now. Greater consumption and more sharing of costs could also have a positive impact on online rents in Norway. A new ‘supernet’ along the coast will reduce the need for the largest lines in this country. If one can use a sea cable in the fjords as a feeder to such a network, it will be positive and one can provide important landscapes and proximity to busses in many places. It must be assessed whether a super-network along the coast and to Europe should be part of the central network, or whether the cable link should be built and financed on the basis of the revenue that such a network will generate in the future. In a discussion on a ‘supernet’ to Europe, knowledge of future domestic energy needs, potential for energy efficiency improvement and for the new production of renewable energy must be provided. Norway has been powering oil and gas for decades, and there are still large resources to be used. Norway is also a major producer of clean renewable energy in Europe. It is claimed with great weight that we are Europe's battery in power. Water power, of which we have a lot in this country, is an important stabiliser in the European power market. It will be a decisive complement to current and future wind power, both at land and at sea, because energy from wind power cannot be stored but is consumed continuously. The NVE states that by 2020 the Nordic power balance will show a surplus of 30-40 TWh per year. Of these, Norway will have an excess of up to 12 TWh. That means we need a lot of export capacity. Investments in energy production are long-term and costly investments. If we're going to venture to invest in more renewable energy, it's an assumption that it's actually a market that can buy this energy. There are major plans for new renewable energy production. The government’s climate notification and the January 2008 Storting climate agreement indicate that Norway will realise 30 TWh of new renewable energy production or energy use by 2016. In the long term, the quota system will make our clean energy a valuable resource, and that means that we need to look at the large investments that need to be made as a cost that will generate large revenues in the future. A decisive commitment for the EU's renewable directive is that the new renewable energy should replace today's fossil energy use. But the power has to be brought to the new customers before you can achieve this climate gain. Europe’s focus on renewable energy will continue, and there will be large generation of wind power, especially offshore. If Norway is to produce more renewable energy and we do not expect a large increase in domestic consumption, the capacity of the rest of the world needs to be increased, in addition to electrifying part of the platforms on the base, if necessary. Statnett sees in its 2009 network development plan the need for investment in the central network of the order of 20–45 billion DKK over the coming decade, among others. that they will establish new cable links with our neighbouring countries in the south. Cables are installed in many countries with very high capacity, and this is a development that will continue. The large expansions of the central network in several places in the country create great resistance. In the West there is great local resistance both in Hardanger and towards the planned line between Fardal and Ørskog. The Norwegian fjord landscapes are the world's foremost destination, and UNESCO has pointed out some of the fjords of the West to the World Heritage Site. The planned lines have a very negative impact on the environment and the quality of life of many inhabitants. In many places the new line will come so close to the bus stop that it creates fear of both radiant and other health damage. They planned 420 kV lines leading to major challenges elsewhere in the country. There is a great need to develop new cable technologies that can both open up to solutions other than domestic air voltages and improve cable technology in order to increase capacity towards Europe. Both parts require a sea cable with high capacity, secure supply and acceptable price. The collapse must take responsibility for a full review of the network policy in Norway. If we want Norway to be an energy storm on pure renewable energy, and that this is to be a bet area for the years to come, we need to have a network that is adapted to this. Similarly, the Storting must give a clear message to those who want to invest in building renewable energy, that they have a network that can deliver this energy, and that there will be an economy to do this in a defenceful way. It's really urgent to get started, and I hope that the Government will facilitate an offensive and forward-looking debate on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e641	I agree with the interpellant that a good electrical energy transmission infrastructure is essential for the development of renewable energy production, security of supply and the rational use of energy resources. The government will therefore facilitate the increased deployment of network capacity between national and foreign parts. A offshore power grid could play an important role in the future power system. Technological developments open up the way for the establishment of power generation and associated petroleum installations to an extent that has not yet been possible. In addition, the creation of new cable links between regions and between countries, for example, will become increasingly relevant. between the North and the rest of Europe. These cables may be integrated with wind farms and those petroleum installations using new technologies. Marine and near-coastal wind power production stood at around 2 pst in 2008. of total installed wind power generation in Europe but in rapid growth. In 2009, 577 MW of sea wind became connected to the network. It represents an increase of 54 pst. compared to 2008. Last June, I presented a proposal for a new law and strategy for renewable energy production at sea to the Stortinget. This is to be discussed in Stortinget on 11 March, and I hope to support the Government's strategy in this area. In addition to active R & D and technology development, we have started the process of identifying areas that may be suitable for offshore wind power generation in Norwegian regions. Means of transmission and development of the marine network shall be considered in this context. A super-network shall be capable of transmitting large quantities of electricity over long distances. A European super-network has increased the timeliness of connecting national and regional networks to manage an increased share of renewable power generation. A super-network will then be the motorway linking the national grid systems. In a European context, the discussion has focused a great deal on land-based solutions that cover large parts of Europe, but recent solutions for offshore power transmission have also been developed, in order to facilitate wind power generation and connect larger areas. It has been stressed that building new power lines in the sea may be less conflictable than on land. Norway participates in several international cooperation forums related to the transmission systems at sea and sea. Among other things, last year we signed a cooperation agreement with Germany, Denmark and Sweden in the field of sea-based wind power. Through system operators in Europe, Statnet is involved in cooperation on specific challenges related to maritime network development. In addition, through our ongoing dialogue with the European Commission, the OED has been briefed on the initiatives taken by the Commission in this area, including: through its offshore wind action plan. In the context of the EU Energy Council in December, nine European countries signed a political declaration to strengthen regional cooperation on marine wind and grid development in the North Sea region. I have today, as the representative Lødemel also mentioned, signed on behalf of Norway the statement ‘Offshore grid development in the North Sea’. Norway is now a formal participant, and the OED will attend the meeting under the direction of the group later this month. It is useful for Norway to participate in international forums. In our work on the strategy for renewable energy production at sea and in identifying areas for marine wind, this international cooperation is of key importance. The sea outside Norway is relatively deep and is characterised by severe weather conditions. If a transmission system along the coast of Norway and to other countries is to become a reality once in the future, today’s technology needs to be further developed. Coupling platforms and multi-terminals are examples of installations that need to be further developed, for example: enabling the coupling of production and consumption at an acceptable cost. Unlike today’s sea cables to the rest of the world built with DC HVDC technology, it seems most relevant for an offshore to use DC with a different transformation technology from the one we know from today’s transmission connections, known as VSC HVDC technology. This makes it possible to link production and consumption along the way – an important difference from what we see today. There is a lot of research and development on this technology development. For example, in 2009 Statnett launched a R & D programme for the construction and operation of transmission systems at sea. Interpellant claims that a marine supernet can also reduce the need for large shore-based power lines. There are several circumstances in which such a marine network cannot in many cases replace shore-based reinforcements. In particular, for reasons of security of supply and the possibility of input of new production, there is often a need for more access points along the way, not just a transmission of power from A to B. The capacity of sea cables with the super-network technology in question is expected to increase over time. It is currently around 400 MW. For new sea cables to other countries, it is currently up to about 1 400 MW. However, there is a long way to go to today’s standard for new land-based transmission lines. A new 420 kV line has a capacity between 2200 and 2500 MW, also at a significantly lower cost. Furthermore, a sea cable will be vulnerable in the event of failure of the cable. The experience gained from failures on other sea cables provides a good basis for establishing that in some cases the repair time may be very long. According to my assessment, the offshore transmission system today is not an alternative to building land-based lines. Given the security of supply, the objective of increasing renewable power generation and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it will in any case be necessary to build land-based lines. However, it is important that this expansion and upgrading of the electricity grid be made as prudent as possible in the interests of other environmental and social interests. That's exactly why I left in Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009 a strategy for increasing environmental, aesthetic and community concerns in electricity pipelines. A total increase joined this in June 2009, i.e. about six months ago. I would also like to show that the Stortinget has a proposal for a representative, among others. from the representative Lødemel to the moment of consideration. I'll have to answer it later this month. Research and development are already in progress at sea for the transmission system, as mentioned above, and there are several cooperation initiatives. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate for a work to be started on further investigations into a supermarket at sea. We are involved in good processes around these issues, and we also have a lot of planning work now in relation to web development in Norway, for the rest. However, in the context of the Offshore grid development in the North Sea initiative, own investigations on Norwegian issues may be necessary. I will perhaps come back to Stortinget and inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e677	I would like to thank the Minister for a constructive and positive response. I see that we have the same thoughts in relation to land-based networks that the minister also has in relation to cables. It is just as the Minister points out, as we see with the NorNed cable today, that there are challenges to cable technology. It also makes it important to press for better technology and capacity. Europe is already discussing supernets. On 3 January, The Guardian announced that nine countries around the North Sea – Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden, Ireland and the United Kingdom – met to discuss plans to link their renewable energy production. Such a network, consisting of thousands of kilometres of high-efficiency subsea cables at an investment cost of up to DKK 250 billion, could meet one of the strongest criticisms of wind power and other renewable energy, namely that changing weather conditions make it unreliable. With a supernet for electricity, the power supply will come from the area of the European continent where the wind blows, solar light or waves break. Already in the fall, the nine countries plan to have the plans ready to start building a high-end power grid over the next ten years. It will be an important tool for meeting the EU's renewable target. Norwegian hydropower will be an important battery in such a network, as it is the only renewable energy source where we can regulate production in relation to demand. In periods of high production from other renewable energy in a supermarket, we can pump water back into the warehouse to use it in new hydroelectric power generation when demand is high. A supernet in the North Sea could be a first step towards a future European supernet. Such a network could use solar energy in southern Europe, wind power in northern Europe and western Europe and water power in Scandinavia. It is also important to pass this on to a supernet along the Norwegian coast, and I record that the minister was also involved in his response. Then it will be very positive if we can pass a supernet in the North Sea to a supernet along the Norwegian coast that can capture wind power both on land and at sea and water power produced on land. This would mean that we could have one net against Europe. It would be a formidable success. I think we should already be involved in planning such a network, and include it in the plans to be created when it comes to a European supernet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e690	I can follow up on the same track as the representative Solute flour does here, in relation to a constructive entrance around the question. There is no doubt about the need to focus on the need for increased renewable energy generation to require grids. There is a necessary debate to take, and there is a necessary focus to have, because it may often be produced as if one is very concerned about generating energy, but is not interested in taking the consequences and – in a slightly transferred sense – the costs of it. In my view, with regard to climate change and the commitments made by EU countries in the context of the development of renewable energy that we are going to have in Norway in the future, the precisely online issue is the big issue that will most likely determine whether we are succeeding. We have not done our job in Norway to build the web in the last decade. We have seen price differences in electricity in Norway that we should not have, because the web is too bad. We see that we have a production potential in the future that will also be demanding to realize, if we don't get a better level on the web. In this way, I follow very closely the entrance that the representative has here; network expansion is important. So at the same time, I just want to repeat myself a little bit of what I said in my previous post, that we're not taking this debate at sea, in the sense that we're giving the impression that sea cables, supernets or what we call it, can mean that we're getting away from difficult debates in Norway about web expansion, for the rest. It will not be the case that setting a super-network plan or a network development for the rest of the world is missing from the fact that land-based network development will also be part of this issue. The representative then takes up the relationship between Norwegian hydroelectric plants and wind power development in Europe. Here too, I believe that the entrance that the representative has is a constructive entrance to see what opportunities we have to use Norwegian regulatory capacity in a future European network. There is no doubt that there will be a lot of wind power left over at times of the day — and perhaps also at times of the year — when consumption is low. That would be bad climate policy. There will also be a bad economy in leaving that power unused, perhaps one in the ultimate consequence must shut down windmills because there is no need for power. Then we have an opportunity to use Norwegian water storage machines to buffer in relation to that. So here's a lot of great possibilities. Networks are going to be the main focus of renewable energy production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e703	There's an interesting debate here the representative takes up in his interpellation. We have neglected network development in Norway for many years, yes, but what we see is that there are huge changes both in Norway and elsewhere in Europe in switching from different sources of power. We produce renewable energy elsewhere than it's been produced before, and we consume energy elsewhere than before. In Norway, this has some consequences. But if we look at Europe, it has enormous consequences, especially when we talk about the development of wind power at sea. And there are enormous opportunities for Norway in this. In order to achieve a large-scale and ambitious deployment of renewable energy not only in Norway but across Europe, we depend on the new energy hoped to replace the pollutant to be a reliable and secure source of energy. That means that distribution has to be in place. Those who choose to invest money in such a development must have the security that the product is sold and that it reaches the customers. The so-called supergrid, or supernet, is one solution to these challenges. But this super-network is nothing but a well-developed network that we hope will unite Europe in a common 'energy network highway'. So it's like this. not a crisis if there were to be quite no wind in the whole of Scandinavia for up to several days in a stretch, as it looked certainly blowing like just that elsewhere in Europe. Thus wind energy can be transported from the places where it blows to those places where it does not blow. The same factors will apply to rainstorms, hydropower, solar energy, etc. In other words, bets on a pan-European network provide a system that re-establishes flexibility for renewable energy sources that would otherwise be inflexible. For Norway with enormous renewable energy potential, this future infrastructure could be worth gold. I believe there is reason to commend the government's work in this area. Norway participates, as is known, in several international cooperation forums relating to the transmission systems at sea and sea. As has been said here, on behalf of Norway, the Council of State has now signed the statement ‘Offshore grid development in the North Sea’, and Norway is with this formal participant and will participate in these meetings. Norway is a major energy nation, and we need to work specifically to ensure that it will also be so in the future. Renewable energy offers great opportunities not only for the environment but also for future value creation and employment. Our acquired competence in the energy sector needs to be further developed in order to ensure and further develop thousands of jobs in the energy sector in the future. We need to ensure that the energy we produce in the future can not only benefit ourselves, but that it can benefit Europe as a whole – to the extent that we can do so without jeopardising employment in Norway. Then, of course, we're talking about the amount of power we're transferring, and the amount of power we need to our own power-processing industry. A future pan-European efficient and reliable network structure could be in everyone's interest. So far these future energy visions go under many names, but what you call it, doesn't matter. We in the Workers' Party think this is an exciting idea, and we are happy that the Government is meeting that idea in such a concrete and positive way. I also think that there is reason to point out once again what the Council of State was about in its last speech, that a future supergrid in the North Sea will in no way relieve us of the difficult debates we are going to discuss about the development of a network in Norway that can also absorb new renewable energy, small energy, etc. produced around. So I feel like we don't throw blues in the eyes of anyone when we talk about cable politics like the big new mantra that's going to save us from difficult discussions. We have to face up to the fact that we are going to develop new renewable energy across the country with the possibilities we have, and this will also become visible in the terrain in some way. The question is, where does the limit of what we can accept and not accept? We'll have to do those discussions anyway. We can't dig them down or lower them in the ocean.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e727	The theme of the debate is very important because networks are a prerequisite for a functioning power market. When we discuss energy policy, Norway has two big legs to stand on: one is electricity, the other is oil and gas. I think we should bet on both. So you can't make this a thing where Norway is only going to bet on power in the future. But if we are to invest in renewable energy, we are to further develop our hydropower, so network policy must be an offensive part of this – and we would like to get ahead of the other ambitions. This is contrary to what we have seen in recent years, that everyone has been for renewable energy, but network policy has been more or less brackish. Governments should be honoured that he presented a status quo proposition last year, but very many offensive measures were not. So I'm not in any way behind the self-esteem of the Workers' Party representative. In the last 53 months that the government has run, we would have come much further if the council had had had a clear direction when he started, and not stumbled in their own legs so many times. But that he has come a little ahead, yes, it should just be missing. Then we also have to remember that current is a product that is an extreme fresh product, unless one also uses the argument that you can store it in aluminium and stuff like that. It's an important part, but as a product in itself, electricity is an extremely fresh product. Therefore, it is important to discuss electricity policy, to understand the nature of market expectations of renewable energy investors. The market expectations that are growing are that if the policy objectives of renewable energy investment are realised, we will have a price collapse in the market. It appeared at Pareto's conference a few weeks ago. I don't think there are many of the rational actors in Norway with an existing portfolio that is going to invest a lot in renewable energy. Just the uncertainty that has now been created is a reason why one should have a clearer network policy in order to remove the uncertainty about where to sell the power and who the customer should be. There are two roles for the mains power supply. One is to ensure domestic distribution and link with new projects. The second role is exchange between countries — imports and exports to ensure, for example, that: Our hydropower-based power system is robust even for dry years, but also that we have a place to make of the power in wet years. That we also have a security in cold periods is important in order to avoid power rationalization or sky-high power prices. The Progress Party is behind the desire to address the issue – as opposed to the Government. We think it is important that Norway is in the front line and not just coming after the EU, as we did in this context here – fortunately not very far behind, but a few months. But I think we should be careful to make this a debate that we can get here into a network structure that allows the power cable conflict in the West to be put in a drawer. Supergrid is no solution to a national cable strategy. Supergrid is primarily a motorway between countries over long distances. It does not address the local distribution needs or the regional distribution needs. If you, for example, sees it as a very high degree of wind power to be developed in Finnmark, it may be a potential to have a supergrid for Europe. Now I'm not saying it's financially sound, but that's what you're going to think, because you don't get a provision on the flow down Norway to a particular extent until you get to Middle Norway. But the question is also that if you really want to see and talk about 175 TWh with wind power in Finnmark, you don't need that much in Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal either. We still need to have the debate on central networks and regional networks on land in Norway, and then we can have a discussion about whether we're going to wire more of this, or whether we're going to have sea cables in the fjords and along the coast. But to call it a supernet I think it's a little wrong to make it relevant for the Western debate – both because it's too late, and because it's the wrong tool. It is important that in the debate we ensure that we have a policy that dimensionalizes the network to the need for electricity that we think it will be in Norway. Then we have to view costs and environment as part of that whole thing. Single cables that we have today abroad can be part of a supergrid. We would like to have a more offensive policy for better connections with the rest of the world. It is also about what we believe about the power market 20-30 years in advance, because that is what we need to do when we dimension our network policy. What do we think about Norwegian production and Norwegian consumption? What do we think and what do we want with the industry in Norway? What do we think about electrification of the car park? Today, such themes are taken up very piecefully and divided into Stortinget. What we really need is not an investigation into supergrid, but an energy policy in the form of a big message that makes us see the whole thing here. Then supergrid should also be an important part of it. I fear that an approach that investigates this without addressing the power demand in northern Europe and power generation in Norway will be relatively meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e740	Thank you to the representative, Bjørn Lødemel, for taking the initiative in this debate. The theme is important from a security of supply perspective, but also from an angle with a focus on business — where Norway, as an energy nation, will evolve. It is also a question of what responsibility we in Norway should have as a contributor to Europe’s security of supply. I would also like to thank the Riis-Johansen Council for signing today this political cooperation agreement to strengthen regional cooperation on network development in the North Sea, where the aim is to coordinate the development of a marine network and its installations on land. This is good news, as there is no doubt that Norway, together with the EU, has a common interest in building such an infrastructure. The EU has its 20–20 targets, and Norway can in many ways be a renewable battery for Europe, while also strengthening our own security of supply through these interconnections. The likelihood of more economically edible electrification of parts of the Norwegian base will also increase if more people contribute to financing the infrastructure, as there is no doubt that this infrastructure will have a high price. But if we're more likely to divide by the bill, it'll be more affordable for everyone. The importance of an efficient cable connection to the continent has been addressed on several occasions. The production of more renewable energy depends entirely on having a market to deliver to, since, in general, we in Norway today have too much power production compared to what we consume domestically. Recently, there were also concessions for large wind turbines in Rogaland. That's good. At the same time, however, the developers were aware that cable connections abroad need to be improved before it becomes interesting to make investments, precisely because it has to be a market for that type of investment. The representative, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, was also concerned that having a market for our increased energy production is crucial. Then the cable connection out is critically important. I also agree with what Mr Solvik-Olsen said, that we must have an overall approach to what our consumption will be when we talk 20-30 years ahead of time, to what production we want, and to what market we can expect is out there. Having an overall approach to these energy issues is important. It's a challenge for the sitting government to come up with. During these days, the Energy and Environment Committee has a pro-position on marine energy, where Norway has a major theoretical potential for exploitation. These discussions are going to be meaningless if we don't have an infrastructure that makes sure to have a market for the new energy we have the opportunity to work out. The representative Lødemel highlighted the need for a review of the network policy, both nationally and abroad. I fully agree with that. It is a challenge for the Government to take such a type of review. What is required now is that we actually get action and development on these important issues. Yesterday we received a press release from Statnett saying that the NorNed cable is down. It'll probably be lying down for several weeks. This coincides with the fact that we have it cold, and that it is expected to be cold in the future. It says a little about how vulnerable and vulnerable we are today. Then it must be important for the Government to ensure that we become less vulnerable, that we strengthen our own security of supply while at the same time our own export potential and to get value creation out of being a great energy supplier. I hope that the Council of State and the Government can be more active when it comes to action, so that we get ahead of these questions. I hope the Government will be active in the group that is now working on infrastructure in the North Sea. Norway has a lot to contribute here in terms of competence and technology on issues relating to cable cables. Here we don't have to sit in the back seat, here we can sit in the driver's seat and make sure that it's progressing in the development of this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e755	A prerequisite for the renewable society, lower greenhouse gas emissions and good security of supply are good infrastructure. The size shall deal with the law on renewable energy at sea in March. This is an area where Norway has all the prerequisites for being an important player. Within offshore, we are already among the world's largest actors, perhaps the world's largest – I'm a little uncertain about the numbers – in competence and volume, which the representative Meling was in finally. This gets its natural extension in, for example, the exposure of Statoil and Statkraft to Doggerbank in England. A commitment and technology development online at sea, which will eventually also provide cheaper connectivity opportunities, will have much to say for our commitment to the exploitation of marine energy. In particular, integration with existing and new oil installations can lead to very large reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from the cap account for a very large proportion of Norway’s total CO2 emissions today. We have almost 50 gas power plants on a Norwegian base, and at least we have to replace many of them by electrifying the installations in the North Sea and in the Norwegian Sea that will be in operation for decades. Offshore wind power has an important role here, but an offshore grid will in any case be necessary for the wind power of the future to be included in a greater power balance. Norway can make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from coal, oil and gas on the continent, and our wind power can be involved in a good interaction with our hydropower and make both parts more valuable. We have half of Europe's water reservoirs. I don't think the value of these will just decrease as renewable energy is invested more in Europe. In such an image, it is important to facilitate Norwegian exports of renewable energy. But at the same time, I think it's important to keep your head a little cold. It's not a goal for SV to export all the power we can. Norway has the world's most climate-friendly process industry. Exporting power in the form of aluminium and silicon is much better for the environment than exporting power directly. In order to avoid carbon leakage and the risk of Norwegian workplaces, Norwegian power policies in a renewable and offshore future need to take into account Norwegian industry and contribute to new investments in new Norwegian green industry. SV therefore believes that electrification of the socket, power to the climate-friendly industry and, above all, electrification of the transport sector is very important, more important than having the aim in itself to export as much power as possible. In a future low-carbon society, possession of the most environmentally friendly industry and transport sector will be one of the greatest benefits. It is not, therefore, as the representative Lødemel says, that in the future we must make a choice between locking the force inside or exporting green force to Europe. While our renewable energy is a major resource for lowering European emissions, our process industry is also much of what does and should make us an environmental nation. Here, more considerations need to be balanced. A future ocean-based supernet also requires political governance. In order to address societal needs, it is important that Statnet is the system operator of a new maritime network. It is also important to see such a network policy in a Norwegian utility image. I think, in spite of what Solvik-Olsen's representative says, that a sea-based network with shore-side connections in Norway could have an impact on our domestic supply situation, and thus serve to mitigate conflict in view of future network deployment in Norway. It requires further technology development and a lot of work, but it does most of the climate and energy challenges in our time. So I don't think we're going to get out of this debate about the relationship between climate action, local environment, quality of life and aesthetics. But I think this too can work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e777	I think it's worth starting by thanking the interpellant for raising this debate. It is good that the Storting spends time on what is one of the really important strategic choices we are going to make in energy policy in the future. This idea of a supergrid/supernet in the sea has been conveyed by many. There are several reasons for this – one and perhaps the most obvious reason is that transmission capacity needs to be strengthened in any case. The North is becoming a surplus area. It is not that many years since we discussed the power balance in Norway and were concerned about it – now we are becoming a surplus area. And even if we're going to have a transition to an electric car, electrify parts of the socket and also maybe lay the foundation for new renewable energy industry, it's obvious that we need to get a provision for some of this surplus by exporting it. After all, we have great ambitions to grow to export renewable energy in order to replace it, among other things. coal in Europe. Then we will have the renewable directive if not too long, and no matter what kind of commitments Norway will end up with, it is clear that that directive will make Norwegian power, renewable power, more attractive, give the greater value in the European market, because it is quite clear that there are many European countries that will be struggling to achieve their commitments through action in their own countries. We also have the ongoing debate on Norwegian hydropower as a battery for European wind power. We also have some discussions about the use of electricity on installations on the base. Now, hopefully, we'll get some new calculations on that in the context of a climate cure, but in any case, we know that there's a huge potential for CO2 cut there, and the biggest challenge to get it done is, of course, about networks. Not least, cables at sea are a prerequisite for the bet on sea winds that we all want. I share the opinion of the Council of State that this cannot replace infrastructure on land or resolve the conflicts we have in the West. That's interesting anyway. We know that several EU countries have a comprehensive grid of electricity in the North Sea on the drawing block, and of course there is enormous interest in bringing Norway into this, with the regulatory power that we own. I am very, very pleased with the news that came today in the State Council's statement that we are now a formal participant in this initiative. Then I would also say that impatience is good. We're not going back on this, we're not going to let the train go. There are many who compare the sea wind effort to the early oil age, when politicians seized and got things to happen, and it is in many ways an admirable story of someone who believed in something that very few others saw the possibilities in. After all, we know all the history from the time we opened a test drilling at Ekofisk in 1969 and the director of a well-known oil company, whom I will not mention, said that he would personally drink every drop of the oil that came up from the North Sea. But there's also a story of patience, of taking the time to make the right assessments, of chiseling out a strategically correct policy. This Web, which is now on the drawing pad, is intended to cost $250 billion, and then we have to do it right, we have to know that we're doing it the right way. The first offshore electricity grid is planned in the Baltic Sea, between Sweden, Denmark and Germany – Kriegers Flak. There is a commitment that has received massive EU support, but it has just become known that the Swedes are withdrawing from the project. It's not supposed to scare us, but it says something about it being complex, and it's not just putting any cables into the sea here. So I'm very happy that the interpellant has such a sobering approach to what he has. I think everyone sees the enormous potential for power generation and for new suppliers in the development of sea wind. So where we are now, very much is about being forward-looking, seeing the possibilities, doing the right things in the right order. I think we're well positioned. Two out of eight of the environmental energy research centres that were established last year, marine wind researchers, Statnett is researching and developing at sea transmission systems, we've put in place the world's first full-scale floating mill, we're laying the legal basis through the Sea Energy Act that's under our care now, and so we got the news today that we're now part of this North Sea initiative. So once again, I'm happy for the involvement of the Storing and the Opposition. We're not all solving conflicts with this, but we can stand here at the beginning of a new energy era, and then it's incredibly important that we all want to go in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e802	I am pleased with what the representative Marthinsen says, that this could be the introduction to a new era. I'm also glad that Right is involved in setting a standard on a new era entry. We are very pleased with the response we have received, and the constructive debate this has been. Norway has great potential, and it is absolutely crucial that we show the power of action. A good right expression is: Hive you in the kalosyans! There must be a call for the Minister to act. This is an incredibly important issue for Norway as an energy nation, and as a contributor to Europe in order for Europe to achieve its climate objectives, in the same way that this will provide formidable revenues to Norway in the future if we succeed. Right will press for us to get ahead of this work. The right will also press for the development of a European super-network further north along the Norwegian coast. I hope that the Minister will take with him the ideas and ideas that lie in it when he starts working on the European super-network. I agree with Ketil Solvik-Olsen that we should have a big message that deals with these matters. It could have been very much like an energy message, where we can actually see these things in context, and also look at what possibilities we have in total to develop Norway as a formidable energy supplier to Europe. Governments address the major challenges of network development on land. It is clear that we are going to develop the network on land. We are totally dependent on having a good network that can handle both hydropower, small power and wind power generation. We need that web. But I see that it might be a possibility for some of the exciting thoughts that are about a supernet on the coast. Maybe it's going to go a little bit further than what's now done. The powerlines to be built in the West have a time of 50–60 years, and they have enormous consequences for many communities. I agree that we should not throw blues in the eye of those who fight these lines, but at the same time I feel that we should be so fair that if new, good ideas appear, they must also be included in the plans. I also see that there will be a greater need to assess land-based cabling. It also applies to lower voltages. Today the cable is 22 kilovolts, but there is a large voltage between 22 kilovolts and up to 420 kilovolts. I see that too many local environments would be positive if one could assess wiring even at a lower level. I would like to thank you for a good debate. This will be an exciting theme for you in the future. Right wants to be a driver to set up a supernet both in Europe and in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e817	Had I wanted to misunderstand the last post, I could have interpreted it as it was today this process started, that it was today this debate for the first time was raised. I think we agree that this is a debate which has been going on for a while and in which we see that we are also well inside. I believe that the conclusion both on the matter as such and the debate today is that the discussion about supernets, or what we call it, at sea versus regular web expansion in Norway is very similar to the debate we have on offshore wind versus other window construction. There we see that to get results in the relatively short term, and a little more than that, it is the land-based solutions that will bring about new production. Then we have offshore wind up there, like the big one in the future, which is really going to mean a lot in relation to energy production in Norway and the export of energy from Norway, but which is therefore a little further ahead. I think the online discussion is very parallel. When it comes to solving the challenges we now face on the website, we cannot get out of the concrete discussions on alignment in Norway. There will be many discussions on the future, not least related to what the representative Lødemel took up: Statnet’s development plan, which has a significant investment potential in itself, and which in practice covers the whole country, when one now sees that the line from Balsfjord to Hammerfest is also being raised again. These are the concrete issues that we are going to have to deal with in relation to today's situation. But while we are doing that, we should discuss what I have seen in the representative of Lødemel's interpellation: how we connect offshore wind and oil installations, how we manage power exchanges based on Norwegian hydroelectric plants, wind turbines in other countries that do not produce the whole day, which wind turbines produce at different speeds, different productions in different parts of Europe at the same time – how this can be linked. These questions belong naturally to it, and it is a debate that is going on that is related to many examples that have come from the pulpit here today, and of which we want to be part, and of which, among other things. Today’s signature is a clear signal from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e828	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e844	The reasons for this interpellation are the many serious concerns expressed by midwives, doctors and users, as well as in the media about the situation in many of the country’s food departments. The Storting Message A happy event was handled in Stortinget last year. Substantial changes and improvements were made in relation to the Government's original proposal, and there was broad agreement that maternity, maternity and maternity care had to be strengthened in order to ensure better quality. What I am now asking for is the follow-up to the Storting decision. The incidence of complications, injuries and deaths is very low in Norway compared with many other countries. Despite this, there is a great need for improvement. Reports show that there is too little capacity and overfilling of maternity wards. We get reports of near-accidents, and there is a significant increase in non-conformities. It was found on the TV 2 news last night that children died in connection with their birth, and many people get serious damage due to mistreatment. There is a shortage of midwives both in the maternity wards and in the community health service. There are substitute fats and lack of continuity, too poor selection for higher preparedness departments, too poor follow-up of quality work, too high labour pressure, too low staffing and co-conflicts on major food departments. This situation has been addressed in the Storting several times over the last three to four years, without any significant improvements being made. However, we had great expectations when the big news came a happy event, not least that the Health Minister would follow up the Storting decision last year. However, there is much to suggest that this has not happened, that there has been no improvement – on the contrary. In January, the Norwegian midwife association carried out a review and a survey of the manning situation of all health establishments with food establishments. The feedback from professionals and trustees is discouraging. There are alarming numbers of health businesses that have implemented, or plan, reductions or savings at the maternity wards or maternity wards. It's a huge consumption of involuntary part-time and temporary workers. Permanent posts are kept vacant on leave, and there are many shift shifts on the tour. There is an alarmingly high level of sick leave in several departments. Employees have little or no possibility for professional updates in line with the Specialist Health Services Act. Many departments report a service they perceive as low user-friendly and at the frontier of the professionally irresponsible. Obstetrics are becoming a priority. Many have reported that they do not have time to document non-conformities. This is serious. Let me take a few examples: the University Hospital in Akershus, Ahus, suggested before Christmas to reduce the number of employees by 9.2 jobs in the maternity ward due to forced savings in 2010. Plenipotentiaries of midwives and doctors reacted strongly to this proposal. In a letter to the Ahus Board of Directors, they expressed their concern about the quality of the offer to pregnant, birthing and midwives, and that they could not operate properly for another year with a crew that is not adapted to the amount of births. In 2009 there were 4,681 births – 11,45 p.m. more births than planned. For 2010, the planned birth rate is 4,500, so a reduction was proposed for both the maternity ward and the maternity ward. Staff report high work pressure and high sick leave. Several midwives seek refuge from the department. This was then finally perceived by the management as worrying, and they withdrew the run-down of 3.3 midwife positions, but maintained a cut of 5.5 positions at the maternity ward. It has consequences for the offer to the midwives. There is not enough peace around mother and child after birth. Children are often given infant formulae because there is no time for breast - feeding. After birth calls are not carried out. Ahus has a large proportion of foreign-cultural midwives, and it takes more time and resources. They have more morbidity, anxiety and language problems, and they have more often sick children. Organisation and cooperation with local health services and interpreters requires time. The management itself says that the consequences of the proposed downgrading will be that some unregulated tasks in the maternity ward will be completed – in other words, there will be a worse offer, contrary to the Storting decision. However, management is clearly of the opinion that the staff of the Food Department is professionally sound and in line with a staffing standard of 1997. With respect to reporting: a lot has happened in birth care since 1997. In particular, decisions have been taken in 2001 and 2009 to strengthen it significantly, especially in the light of many unfortunate events. It does not aim to hide behind a 1997 standard of manpower. The cuts are carried out without any impact assessment being carried out. The 1997 standard of living does not take into account the fact that there is not only one patient, but two patients, mother and child, and that maternity care has actually become more demanding. From Oslo University Hospital, it is reported that reductions have been proposed at the birth department of Ullevål for 2010 and 2011 with 6.5 years’ work – this while the birth rate is rising. The professionals say this is an arithmetic that doesn't jump. In other words, it will go beyond the quality of birth care. At the birth ward in Westfold, operations at the maternity ward were closed, and a differentiated maternity care is absent. Manning reduced by 2.5 years of age, with the same number of births. There are fewer family rooms, and at times women must be in the corridor. The Inland Hospital, the Elverum maternity ward, was severely reduced by both midwives and child care workers in 2008. The result was sick leave of up to 30 pst. for a period. The Stavanger Food Department reports that basic manning is marginal, and there are 18 unoccupied jobs and an increasing number of part-time jobs. This results in a great vulnerability to disease, busy guards, many vacant guards, constant impositions of extra guards and many hired midwives from our neighbouring country. The food department in Bodø is at least manned. The midwives report that the department operates with breath and that there is a strong increase in the birth rate. At the maternity ward at St. Olav's hospital, they've saved money by shutting down one of the maternity ward's parts of the day and for periods of weekends. Employees have been seriously affected. Now they are demanding savings for new seven jobs at the food/breeding department as well as outpatient care. They wear low ground crews, shift shifts and reduced staffing during the weekends. In addition, we have the Kongsberg maternity ward, which is now temporarily closed due to unfortunate events. The downsizing that is now taking place is contrary to the decision of the Storting. It's unworthy, and it's irresponsible. Once again, women and children become a balancing post, and we cannot accept that. I want to remember what the Stortinge said in 2009: ‘The Committee has noted that, in recent years, due to significant migration processes in health care establishments, some food services have made economically motivated changes that have led to a lower supply for birth. The Committee considers it unacceptable that the provision of food is weakened for economic reasons, and that the food women experience more stress and greater insecurity. The Committee would stress that it is necessary to require regional health establishments not to undergo economically motivated conversions leading to poor food supply.» It can hardly be said more clearly! In addition, a unanimous majority called on the Government to develop national guidelines to ensure that women in active birth have a qualified birth assistant, if she so wished, in order to safeguard her safety and reduce the risks of complications. The decline that is now taking place at most of the country's food departments is a trend that is going in the wrong direction. The Council of State answered me a question in spontaneous Question Time on 16 December on the follow-up to the Storting decision in relation to precisely birth aid, that it is the responsibility of regional health businesses to follow up. Yes, but when regional health businesses fail, must the Council of State be responsible? In the case of Ahus, I took the matter up in a meeting that the Health and Care Committee had with Health Southeast just before Christmas, and especially with the chairman of Health South East, Hanne Harlem. The feedback from her was that they relate to the department's message. It is then obvious to ask whether the Minister for Health has not communicated to regional health businesses what the Stortinget has actually adopted, and which the Stortinget expects to follow up. Or is it that regional health businesses have been notified, but not followed up? I would like to know whether the Stortinge’s clear decision not to make economically motivated changes that could lead to a lower supply of food has been communicated to regional health businesses. If they've been told clearly, what does the Council of State intend to do? And what has she done to follow the unanimous decision of the Greatness?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e898	With the big news A happy event, the government provided the basis for pregnant and pregnant women to experience a comprehensive and coherent maternity, maternity and maternity care – i.e. a happy event for the whole family. It is the regional health companies and municipalities that are responsible for the whole of the offer. In the opinion of the Health and Welfare Committee, as the inter-pellant also said, there was full support for this objective, although there were political differences in the view of some of the proposals. Before I go further, I would like to briefly mention a matter that was also mentioned, which goes straight into the core of today's interpellation – a matter that concerns professional demands and not least trust in healthcare. I think of the matter at the maternity ward in Kongsberg Hospital where there has been concern about the professional level of the maternity ward and where an unborn child recently died. The Food Department is now closed by the health business on the basis of a close follow-up from the Health Authority over time. The Health Authority in Buskerud has recommended police investigations following the cooperation procedures between the police and the supervisory authority. I look very seriously at the matter. When things happen that might have been avoided, we have to look at what has happened, and possibly change the routines to prevent it from happening again. The size was in line with the proposal that the current numerical limits for the classification of food establishments should be repealed and replaced by national quality requirements. These will be available during the first six months of this year. The proper running of food institutions is essential. I will oblige regional health companies to set up a system that ensures that quality requirements are met. An overall committee supported the Government’s proposal that regional health companies, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, should draw up multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted plans for the food supply in the region. The plan shall also cover maternity and maternity care. Regional health establishments are informed that any plans to change the structure of maternity care must wait until such plans have been drawn up. It has previously been informed by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in reply to written questions to Stortinget. He pointed out that this does not prevent measures being taken to ensure good and efficient operation. This means that structural changes that are economically motivated cannot yet take place. Regional health establishments have a deadline of 1 July this year to draw up such plans and they will be assessed in an appropriate manner. A unanimous health and care committee has stressed that economically motivated changes should not lead to poor food supply. I want to make sure that this will also be taken care of in the future. The Committee was concerned that summer-time food supplies should lead to long travel distances and insecurity for women in the districts. In the 2010 regional health business mission papers, I have pointed out that regional health businesses are initially to ensure that food institutions are kept open throughout the year. Summer and holiday stays shall not be made for economic reasons alone. The offer may be closed if it is not possible to carry out a statutory holiday. However, the closure period shall be kept as short as possible and the health undertaking shall take the necessary measures to ensure the soundness of the service. This shall be done in cooperation with the municipalities concerned. After dealing with the notification, we have started a great deal of work in the regional health companies and in the Health Directorate to follow up the proposals. I would like to mention some measures. From 1 January this year, I have given regional health companies responsibility for the accompanying service for pregnant women to hospitals. In this way, responsibility for all health services is combined in one place – including ambulance transport. The Communication recommended that healthcare companies and municipalities should enter into agreements on the midwifery service to ensure shared use of the resources. It also applies to preparedness for accompanying services. By pooling responsibility for food supply and follow-up services, pregnant women who have a long journey to the food establishment will be guaranteed a decent offer even during summer and holiday breaks. The government asked the government to propose to strengthen the capacity and quality of the midwife service and to present it to the Storting appropriately. As we can see from this year’s government budget, we aim at detailing the state budget for 2011. The Committee asked the Government to draw up national guidelines to ensure that women in active birth have a qualified maternity care provider at their request. The interpellant asks for the status of what has been done with this. I have asked the Health Directorate to include the leadership of the Committee in the ongoing work on national guidelines on maternity, maternity and maternity care. In the big news A happy event, the government proposed two options for anchoring the local midwife service. One was that municipalities and healthcare companies enter into agreements on local midwifery services. The second option was to anchor the municipal midwife service in healthcare companies. The government’s wish was to decide on the future organisation of local midwife services in the context of the Interaction Reform. The majority of the Committee agreed that, as a general rule, the midwife service in the municipalities must be a municipal responsibility. In the view of the majority, it will be the best way to ensure the proximity and accessibility of services to users across the country. This has been followed up in St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the cooperation reform, which is now in Stortinget. There, the Government proposes that local midwife service remain a municipal responsibility, combined with municipalities and health businesses agreeing on the midwife service to ensure shared use of the resources. I will follow the ongoing work in Stortinget and the comprehensive follow-up to the Storing Communication on maternity, maternity and maternity care. I want to make sure that the government's goal of a happy event becomes a reality for pregnant and giving birth and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e928	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and that is good with what is being followed up. There was no comment on the situation that is around the country and that has been mapped. But I hope the Council of State can address this later, because we still have significant challenges in ensuring quality at all stages. The need to establish a more systematic and continuous quality work shows not least the case at Kongsberg Hospital, where the Council of State was involved. Good basic manning, competence and continuity are essential to ensure the quality of supply, as well as stable and robust professional environments. New quality indicators need to be developed and made public for users, health professionals and authorities, so that we can obtain transparency about the results. I understand that some of the measures adopted by the Stortinget last year can take some time – guidelines and some things like that. But what can be done quickly to ensure quality is to increase basic manning and at least not cut. It is necessary to create strong and robust professional environments. But now we see that it is cut in the positions of almost all the food institutions throughout the country, and the birth rate is increasing. There is not much imagination to understand that the offer is getting worse. And when midwives say to me that they don't even have time to sit down and write deviation messages, which is such an important part of the quality work and the professional development in the food departments, I think it's very serious. Women who are born cannot wait until they become a free birth helper. A birth is immediate help. It happens 24 hours a day, year-round. It is not possible to make a birth more effective by giving birth faster. Too low manning can lead to complications, more surveillance, and, as we have seen, worst-case deaths and injuries. Employees are seriously concerned about mother and child health, and they are concerned about their own work situation. The Council of State was aware that it is now soon to be a summer vacation. Health care businesses already have to plan the summer holiday settlement. Based on reduced staffing, and when we know that most children are born in June, July and August, there can be a very difficult situation for the food departments. So now I really hope that the Council of State will take up with the regional health companies that the situation that is now developing, with economically motivated changes, cuts, cannot be accepted. We cannot live with a maternity care that leads to complications and, in the worst cases, serious injuries to children and death.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e941	As I said in my post, the outcome of the treatment of the Stortingen notification was also followed up with the regional health companies. It is also a work that we focus on in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I very much agree with the interpellant that quality and quality improvement work are necessary, both to maintain the quality of food supply and also to improve quality, which is always a goal to avoid episodes that are not wanted. Quality work is required by law, in particular by internal control regulations. Within maternity care, the highest benefits can be collected through targeted efforts to increase quality at the major food departments, where most births take place. At the same time, and not to be concealed, the small food departments have specific quality challenges related to the recruitment of professionals, temporary employment and low patient volume. This is therefore a situation that needs to be followed closely on the quality page, and which I am going to follow closely up. At the same time, I would like to say that there is a great deal of positive that has happened in connection with the processing of the notification. In particular, the coordination and exploitation of resources, in particular the midwifery resources, between municipalities and health businesses are positive. Not least, I would say that for women living in the districts, far from hospitals, accompanying services are very important. It is absolutely a service that will enhance the quality of this total offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e952	Bringing a child into the world is for most of us one of the greatest things we experience. But it's usually also associated with anxiety and tension to a birth. The essential keywords of maternity and maternity care must be, and are, safety and quality. Pregnancy and childbirth have always been associated with a certain risk and, unfortunately, the element of risk can never be completely eliminated. However, in Norway, we have been able to set a high standard and have a high quality in terms of maternity and maternity care. We have very low incidences of complications and deaths compared to other countries. But we can always get better, even here. That's what caused the government last year to release St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A happy event, which I think the message is so nice. Unfortunately, when things go wrong, we have to get to the bottom of the causal relationship. Now we see that you're trying to do that in Kongsberg, where things have obviously happened that shouldn't happen. I agree with the Council of State that what has happened there is very regrettable – and I want to add: deeply tragic. We can't afford to lose a single child if it can be avoided at all. This is about the basic trust in health care. Good care and good offers stand and fall with good professional competence of midwives and child nurses, as well as nurses and doctors. And sufficient staffing is of course very important, as the interpellant has underlined. Pregnancy, childbirth and families must experience comprehensive and continuous maternity, maternity and maternity care. In this area too, the cooperation reform presented, which the Health and Welfare Committee is now working on, will be important. I believe that the Council of State is proposing an active follow-up to last year's Storing Communication and the Committee's position in that context. It is reassuring that the Council of State assures us that neither now nor – and I stress – will in future make economically motivated changes that weaken the supply of food. Next to the state council, we're a lot of people who want to be watchmen in that way. Let me also mention that from 1 January of this year, regional health companies have been responsible for the accompanying service to hospitals. This is also about ensuring greater safety and quality – an important step. I also think it is right that the birth institutions are now assessed on the basis of quality, not on the basis of the number of births per year. I believe that we are on the right path, sail if we have recently become aware of very unfortunate events. Most people experience a good offer and the birth becomes the happy event as it should be. Food establishments shall be operated properly – seagoingly. And more measures will now help to ensure that this is done everywhere. All the while, we have to follow developments carefully to ensure the quality that everyone expects our birth care to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e969	Yesterday in Rome's magazine, we were able to read about a young woman who, in Eidsivating, has been given the right to work with her for lack of birth help in 2004, which caused serious harm to both mother and child. Although we may never be able to guard ourselves a hundred percent against such things, this woman's story is very shocking and very ugly, and it's hard to understand how anyone can be treated in such a way. Putting a new life into the world is a big event and shall be a great joy. Prenatal safety and pregnancy are therefore very important. The quality of maternity and maternity care in Norway is high in the international context, but we also see that there is a high potential for improvement in order to provide the necessary confidence that the supply is good enough and that good accessibility is ensured. Therefore, the party supporting the main content of St.meld No. 12 for 2008-2009, on general and professional good maternity care. But the Progress Party is very critical of summer-related food departments, mannings and the closures of maternity wards based on economics. The examples are too many, and the representative, Sjøli, well-lit. We believe that needs-to-be plans need to be made based on information on the number of births in the respective regions. We therefore supported the Government’s proposal to oblige regional health companies to draw up comprehensive and multi-annual plans for maternity care. The Progress Party believes that good information for pregnant women is important in order to create a safe atmosphere and help women to become aware of the changes and developments that occur through pregnancy and at birth. Particular attention needs to be paid to the information and thorough follow-up of those who face unexpected and problematic situations during their pregnancy and birth. This is particularly important for the first time born and others who have experienced complications in the past. Women must be able to choose whether to go to a midwife, to a nurse, to a health centre or to a gynecologist for the control of pregnancy. It's a challenge with overly poor midwifery capacity in a lot of municipalities. There is a gap between the supply and demand for midwife services outside the hospital, and this has led to the establishment of commercial midwife centres that take full self-payment of users — another example of a classroom health service. The midwife service needs a different funding from today, and this needs to be done. In the case of accompanying services, the Progress Party was opposed to placing the financial responsibility for it among health businesses. We have seen that when health businesses are given responsibility for transport, the result can be economically motivated cut, and that is not acceptable within this service. With the uncertainty that many people feel in such a situation, especially first-time births — mostly in the districts, with summer-ridden or abandoned maternity wards and some places remodeling the ambulance service — it is important that we put in place a law that ensures all aspects of maternity care, regardless of residence and their own economy. Concern messages about cuts in maternity care have moved me, the committee and the party, which the Progress Party does not believe to be in line with what a unanimous increase said during the discussion of St.meld. No 12th@item: So you could say that the Council of State now assures us that this is not going to happen, but so far the feedback points to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e986	The interpellant, Sjøli, indicates that a unanimous increase has stated that it is unacceptable that the supply of food is being weakened for economic reasons. Despite this, we experience panic-cuts, proposals for reorganization from the maternity ward to the maternity ward, threats of closure and summer-ridden maternity wards. And we have also experienced in recent days that what was previously reported as near accidents has resulted in a number of tragic outcomes in some hospitals and maternity wards. The interpellant gave a very good picture of the problems for the food departments around the country in general, and it scares me that in the middle of this serious debate, we are experiencing that Health Sunnmøre is now proposing an economically motivated cut of 1.8 years' worth of work at the neonatal ward for premature births at the hospital in Ålesund, and cut at the maternity ward at the hospital in Volda – despite the fact that Health Sunnmøre can show that the hospital in Volda, along with the hospital in Ålesund, has had a fine growth in the number of newborns in the last year, and despite the fact that neonatal wards are already struggling with tight staffing and high labour pressure. The proposals for cuts have created anger, insecurity, signing campaign and torch trains. They also contribute to putting birth care at Sunnmøre for many years back, because Sunnmøre is a strong growing region and the neonatal department in Ålesund is the only one in its battle between Bergen and Trondheim. It is also well documented that the neonatal department in Ålesund has a high level of competence, which is the least – and I say the least – in line with the corresponding department at St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim. This competence is important to maintain in order to maintain and develop the department in the future. In most cases a birth is uncomplicated, and the experience is a great pleasure for the whole family, who want to participate as much as possible. At the same time, some birthing people experience that the little one is very busy, too busy, getting to the world. In such cases, closeness to high medical competence and rapid response is required to provide the best care for children and mother. For the bearer and the child, the experience in itself is seaworthy. Therefore, closeness and family support are very important. A unanimous Health and Social Committee and an overall increase therefore clearly stated in 2003 and 2004 that important established professional competences in intensive neonatal medicine at the hospital in Ålesund should be maintained and continued. The Committee justified the decision in its comments by referring to the fact that the department has had very good results over time in neonatal medicine and in the case of premature birth, and that it would therefore be unfortunate to reduce such important competences where distances are large to the nearest regional hospital. It is equally important to recall that Ålesund Hospital in the Committee's comments at that time was asked to maintain a high professional level of neonatal medicine and that the Health Authority will have the task of continuously assessing the offer and safety of the offer. Such opinions shall be binding. At least they do not encourage economically motivated cuts in today's offers. I hope that the Council of State here today can confirm that the previous clear decision of the Stortinges to maintain the neonatal department in Ålesund is pending. I also hope that the Council of State can confirm that she will contribute to the end of panic-cutting at the maternity wards, as this is important because a good and safe experience through pregnancy, childbirth and maternity is essential to ensuring good health for mother and child, family well-being and mastering, and thus also helps to get a good start to family life. A unanimous increase already in 2001 decided that we should have decentralised maternity care in Norway. We cannot underestimate this decision by accepting panic-cut and short-term solutions to achieve balance requirements. Nor can we stare so blindly at the bottom line that we do cuts that reduce costs today, leading to serious accidents and increased social costs in the long term. I agree that it is important for health businesses to master balancing. But for me, it's at least as important to make sure that patients and the birthing are properly offered. It is no secret that the hospitals in More and Romesdal must continuously cut in order to assist the over-consumption of St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim. Nor is it a secret that the scientific community at St. Olavs has clearly stated that they want to take over the functions of the neonatal department in Ålesund. This is a battle that has been fought for many years, and that former governments and magnification through clear decisions have turned back. In one of life's most vulnerable phases, we need to be sure that we get high-quality fast treatment. No balancing item shall be born and children. As a fellow human, woman, mother, and grandmother, I will continue to fight for a good and safe food supply throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1003	The food supply is a health service that people are very concerned about should work well, everywhere in the country. Experience of a deterioration in supply and fear of poorer local food supply — and a greater risk of adverse events — has been a source of great commitment and many torches have been brought up over time. With the big news A happy event was laid the basis for pregnant and pregnant women to experience comprehensive and coherent maternity, maternity and maternity care. The size decided that regional health enterprises, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, would draw up multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted plans for the provision of food in the region, including maternity care. I am pleased that the Minister of Health in the speech today stresses that regional health companies are informed that any plans to change the structure of maternity care have to wait until such plans have been drawn up. I am also pleased that a unanimous health and care committee has emphasised that there should be no economically motivated transitions leading to a poorer supply of food, and that the Minister of Health today assures us that this will be done. But it worries me that sometimes it may seem as if there is a distance between what is adopted in the Storting and the realities of life. I would like to quote Stener Kvinnsland, Managing Director of Health Bergen, who wrote in an article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 21 February last – after there had been several headlines in the media about the conversion of the offer at the Kvinnenklinikken – the following: ‘The annual budget struggle in hospitals is committed. Strong groups act and work for their heart cause. Some of the politicians have an impact. But no one asked who was then elected and had to pay the bill. I had never thought that I would ever set weak groups up against each other. [[...]] But it's actually everyday life now." The words of women’s countries give rise to reflection, both in relation to the fact that resource-intensive health user groups are likely to be heard first, and the timely question of what might have to be removed when some areas are to be prioritised, but also in relation to the fact that we have organised hospital operations in a business model, where the focus on budget and business thinking is very central. Priorities must be made within this reality. Economically motivated changes are being made all the time, while the focus on quality work may not have had the same attention. In these days, many local and regional health businesses are working with long-term strategy plans for their services and activities. I know that there are several places that are, or have been, considered to turn the maternity wards into feeding rooms. An example from the West is Nordfjord Hospital in Sogn and Fjordane and Stord Hospital in Hordaland. I would therefore ask the Minister of Health to pay extra attention to this, and to ensure that Storting's intention is followed up, that at least structural changes are not made until the overall food supply plan in the region is in place, and that quality assessments are used. Major structural changes should also be anchored politically, for example. in the national health plan, because it is clear that the conversion from the maternity ward of the local hospital to the maternity ward is perceived by the population as a deterioration in the supply – although birthplaces currently serve as good alternatives in areas with large travel distances. It is also a fact that the number of laying days has been reduced, often as a consequence of annual budget cuts. From the time I had my first child in 1992, until I got my last in 2004, the number of hospital days after birth was reduced from five to two. But if the follow-up from the local health service can compensate for this change, I don't think this is necessarily a negative change. In the end, I would like to thank the interpellant who put the search light on how the groceries message is being followed up. The centre lot and the undersigned share this exposure. We are pleased with the health minister’s assurances that Storting’s objectives are being pursued and that regional health businesses are required to ensure that quality requirements in the food departments are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1023	First, I must also thank the interpellant for her expedient commitment to the natives. That's great! In recent days, dramatic things have happened in Western Viken health care companies, most recently with the closure of the maternity ward at Kongsberg hospitals. The hospital received deviations during the inspection visit from the Health Authority in the autumn. They discovered that the hospital allows births where there is a known risk of complications for mother and children — many of whom have been involved — without access to the necessary skills. A similar finding was received by Healthe Finnmark, Clinic of the Churches, Department of Food and Gynecology, on 8 December last year. Both sites were supervised on the basis of more information received and specific events. It is also striking that health surveillance points to a lack of improvement in these food departments. For Kongsberg this was also pointed out in the context of the supervision in 2004. That's it. ‘A systematic improvement work is not carried out in the establishment.’ In 2009, the Health Authority said: ‘Vestre Viken HF Kongsberg Hospital does not have an internal control system that can contribute adequately to quality monitoring and quality improvement.’ This is what is being done by the Council of State, so that is what we are going to do. But in the case of the Church Clinic, the Health Inspectorate said last December: ‘A systematic improvement work in the establishment is not implemented and documented to a small extent.’ So it's the same anomaly as Kongsberg Hospital, where the maternity ward is now closed. This is alarming. These include: on the management and management of the food departments. A number of inspections in recent years have shown that this is lacking in many places in the country. This has to be followed up, and it's urgent. I also referred to the interpellant, who was concerned about this. Another issue that is important to follow up is the new responsibility that health care companies have had for the accompanying services for birthing, and that the Council of State was involved in its intervention. There has been concern in some places that municipalities are cancelling care arrangements for accompanying midwives before it is clear how responsibility is being followed up in healthcare companies. Information is requested from the hospitals about this. I hope the Council of State can inform us of the status of the accompanying services for pregnant women, and of whether she also gets such alarming messages, which we are getting in. The last thing I want to say is something short about, and as many people have been about, is the summer closure of maternity wards. Every year this is promoted as a proposal in many health businesses, despite the fact that the Earth’s Mortgage Association has previously said that taking into account Tournament and holiday settlement is not a problem. Thus, few people actually have reason to shut down for reasons other than economic reasons. The Council of State today says that it is important that, according to the mission documents, the food departments should initially be open. That's good. But it has been in the mission documents every year, and despite this, we have several examples of departments that are still being closed. It is important to ensure predictability and control for the natives, both so that they know that they are safe to feed in the hospital, that they have accompanying services when there is a long way to go, and that the maternity ward they belong to remains open even in the summer or for that part of other holidays. I can imagine if the Council of State this year will follow even more than just having it drawn down in the mission documents, because it has proved that it is actually not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1052	I would like to thank you for a good and committed debate. This is an area where everyone is busy. I have noticed that the Council of State says that she has followed up with the regional health companies and has been clear on the Storting's unanimous decision that no economically motivated changes should be made in the food departments leading to a worse offer. The same applies to summer fences. But in spite of this kitty, about all the food departments in the country are in the crew, while the birth figures are rising. I will personally ensure that the Council of State receives this mapping that the Norwegian midwife association – professionals and trust elected – has done from the situation. We simply cannot live with the fact that the number of births is getting worse – that we are getting poorer quality. Manning is at the heart of ensuring better quality and professionally good and sound maternity care. It is especially the most vulnerable birth care. The Council of State said that quality work is required by law. In other words, when professionals do not have time to write non-conform messages, they do not have time to go through unfortunate events and do not have time to get professionally completed and professionally developed, it is a crime. What will the Council of State do with that? So if we're going to be able to get better care, there are two things that are important now, and that we can do quickly to improve quality. It's to make sure that the downsizing stops and you increase the basic manning, and that's to make sure that there's enough time to do the absolutely necessary quality work. As I said, that's what can be done quickly, the other things get to come later. But at least you have to stop the manning that's going on around. It's not enough to say that you have to keep up. In this respect, it appears that regional health businesses are failing in total to comply with both the decision of the Stortingen and the health minister’s injunction that no economically motivated changes should be made. Yet it happens. Then it is the Minister of Health who is responsible for addressing it – not just writing it in mission documents, but actually accompanying it from week to week in what is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1064	In fact, when it comes to managing health businesses, we are steering through mission documents and through business meetings. The mission document was – and I think it was actually for the first time – sent before the beginning of the year, i.e. in December. During the summer it was sent to the enterprises and business meetings were held last week. That is the follow-up I have had in view of what has been done, including: the conversion of the accompanying service which takes place from 1 January and for which the undertakings are responsible. I said in my speech that regional health companies had a deadline of 1 July this year to prepare multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted plans for the food supply in the region. Of course, there is also a work that will be followed up. And as I said, the deadline for doing this is 1 July of this year. In the 2011 budget, we will present a separate report of this with the quality and capacity of the midwife service. I also mentioned that, but I want to repeat it here. So, for summer-long maternity wards, which people have been in. It's a theme that's still coming back; it's coming back just as surely as summer is coming. It should not be – I would like to clarify it once more – the economy that is leading for summer-bound food departments. But I think we have to assume that if you are to manage to complete a statutory holiday, it is not to avoid that you have to reduce staffing or shut down somewhere. Nevertheless, the offer to be made, if open, shall be sound. Overall, there must be a soundness of supply in an area. At the same time, I would like to say that we have had a very sad case at Kongsberg, which also shows how important it is that we manage to keep focus and maintain the quality of the food supply. This is a major challenge, especially when you are going to complete vacations where there is a reduction in staffing during periods. The representative, Sjøli, was interested in information for birth and transport in relation to health businesses. The transport and follow-up service, I think, is at least a much better offer – it should be, too – that gives extra security to the born person. The representative Top of this business model and the economy. No matter how good an offer you want, it's not that you can uncouple everything from an economic point of view. But it should not be economically motivated cuts until 1 July of this year. At least I will promise to follow closely what was said here about staffing in relation to regional health businesses and their follow-up – I will address it both with the regional health companies and with the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1079	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1095	It's now almost three years since I traveled an interpellation about ME in the Storting. At the time, I was very satisfied with the response of Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health and Health. It gave the impression that she had understood which disease this was about, and that she knew the situation of the sickest, who did not get enough help. On the same day as the interpellation was discussed, the Council of State, Sylvia Brustad, announced that the established competence network should be set up, that information measures should come, and that she should, among other things, would consider establishing measures in the specialist healthcare service for the sickest ME patients. Unfortunately, little has happened in terms of offers to the very sickest. In the 2008 budget, funds came to create ten sheltered beds in Health South-East, which I had requested as a very important measure. Nothing happened that year. This was repeated in the 2009 budget. Now you were starting to create these beds. I have asked for these in several rounds, and the last answer from former health minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was that they should come by 31 December 2009. I guess they're now in place. The outpatient team at Ullevål is important, but in some cases has not helped desperate families in the Health South-East area. They do not move out, but often refer to local health services that do not have any competence at all. So what's the situation for the sickest ME patients today? I should first of all like to talk about these in this debate. Let me give you a description of what characterizes many of the sickest ME patients: woman or man in his best youth, living at home with parents, is totally nurturing 24 hours a day, lying with diapers, must be sniffed regularly, has inserted nasal probes to get nourishment, is never out of bed, orcs do not talk or communicate, can have strong pains without getting pain relief. The room is isolated as well as possible from all sound, and it is completely dark. The family may have applied for, but received no, care allowance, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Many of these patients are life-threateningly ill. They may have had one or more hospital stays, which has dramatically worsened the condition. Some people get the ultimatum from the hospital that if they are going to get help, they have to be hospitalized again. But they're too sick to be placed in a non-screened patient room in an active hospital. In my opinion, such an ultimatum shows how little understanding exists. Further characteristics may be that Nav has said no to a temporary or permanent disability pension. The last case I heard about in that way -- it was actually last week -- was a patient in the middle of the 30s who got sick three to four days after a meningococcal vaccine. She was in the vaccine trial. So she got sick when she was a teenager, she never finished school, she's never been able to work, she's not getting a disability pension, she's totally dependent on her parents, both in terms of economics, housing and care. Some families have, after months or years of ‘fight’, as they call it themselves, had different arrangements for assistance in the municipality where they live, but have little or no contact with the specialist health service. Thus, many of the sickest patients do not receive the necessary help, despite the measures established by the Government, which are also inadequate for the sickest. I can name and have phone numbers for many families who are in a similar situation as the sickest. Norwegian doctors disagree on the diagnosis, despite the fact that decades have passed since the World Health Organization made diagnostic criteria and recognised ME as a disease, and despite extensive international studies. Some doctors know little and nothing about ME. Some people think it's a mental disorder, others think it's a neurological disorder, while others think it's an infectious disease. The other day I received the following message from a relative: «A few days ago, I spoke to a neurologist who thought that the only help for my child was to be hospitalized and that it was read and decided that ME should be treated like this. That it wasn't about infections. That's what we meet all the way. We are not believed when we say they are seriously ill." There is also no treatment that is agreed upon. Some have been assisted by new non-approved treatments, such as: Lighting Process, someone with good results, others completely powerless. Several of the most ill in Norway have recently been shown to be heavily infected. Internationally, we also talk about a new virus, the so-called XMRV virus, which includes: in Sweden, as a big news story in line with AIDS. In Norway we hear little and nothing. Only a few doctors in Norway work for these patients, but have no opportunity to capture, investigate or treat all of them. Patients – or the family, I might say – have to pay for expensive treatment. This also applies to animals, but life-saving medical treatment where large infections have been detected. In other European countries, such drugs are both available and used long before the patient has become life-threatening. Thus, many of these patients have been diagnosed with infections, including hepatitis C and hepatitis C. after tick bites, but there are also other reasons for infection. The sickest patients are life-threatening sick, and many of these families meet a wall of ignorance and get no help. Although health services disagree on diagnosis and treatment, in my opinion it is totally unacceptable to cut off the necessary care and vital equipment for them. Governments are well aware of one of these recent cases, which I have recently had two written questions about, and which have not been able to take responsibility for assistance, either individually or in cooperation, either by either the County Council or the Health Directorate, or by the Ministry of Health or Health. This young patient has severe pain, including pain in swallowing food and drinking. Finally, the patient was unable to swallow at all. They never got help from the health service to shut down the nasal probe. Had it not been for a retired doctor and two relatives to other ME patients, it is uncertain what had happened. But the matter has not been resolved. Just hear what the parents write in an e-mail to me: ‘In the case of prescriptions, we receive help from other patients with equipment for the probe. I can't fight anymore right now. Otherwise, we wash equipment instead of throwing it. Shouldn't be sweet. Our child really needs doctors who know this subject to check him every day. However, only one exists in Norway, outside the public health system. You're really alone without any opportunity to get through on any level yet it's really about life here. When the help you get is dangerous and you're not willing to take a little step out of set thought patterns to do a very simple thing that saves lives." It means help in getting a nasal probe in this case. This is a few weeks ago. I don't know what the situation is exactly per. today. We're witnessing a system failure in the case of the most ill ME patients. They don't get any help. They don't fit into the system we've organized our healthcare system after. So the sickest patients can't be hospitalized or hospitalized, because there's not enough screened for sound and light. This is the very little understanding of. The most ill people need health and care services from competent personnel, and I would like to ask the Council of State to set up an ambulance team with competent professionals to ensure these patients, wherever they live in the country, a proper health and care service, and that they are believed in their illness, because they will not. According to my assumptions, it's about maybe 50 to 100 people – it's the sickest. In this interview, I have asked the Council of State to draw up an action plan to ensure that ME patients are properly provided with health and care. In this way, the Council of State can help to legitimize that it is a disease, that there are people who are actually entitled to help, but who do not. Then you have to take some grip from the central team.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1148	The work of securing people affected by chronic fatigue syndrome, or CFS/ME, a good health offer over time, has been a priority for the Government. As the representative of Davøy knows, we have worked systematically to improve the provision of this patient group. It takes time to build up good services, and it takes time for available knowledge and information to reach all health workers who meet these patients in the municipal and specialist health services. Interpellant points out that not all patients feel that they are being cared for by healthcare. It is therefore important for me to stress that all patients are required to be met with respect for investigation, treatment and follow-up regardless of the understanding of their disease by the healthcare system. It is not the diagnosis, but the individual patient’s need for assistance and care that determines the services to be provided in municipalities and hospitals. For the period 2007-2010, a total of 20 million have been allocated. kr above the State budget in order to increase competence in this disease state. The funds are managed by the Health Directorate, which runs the National Competence Network for CFS/ME. The Health Directorate has supported a number of information and technical development projects in the municipal and specialist health services. They have prioritised measures that can contribute to better investigation, treatment, care and care for children and young people and to the most ill patients. I have received information from both the Health Directorate, the services and patient organisations that the national initiative has produced results. I think that's a pleasure given the very difficult situation that many of these patients are in, and that interpellant Davøy also described. I am aware that all regional health companies have made provision for investigation and follow-up. In Health South-East RHF, a ME outpatient clinic and a separate outpatient team are established. The Hospital Inland HF has established its first ME telephone as a low-threshold offer related to the learning and mastering centre. Here patients, relatives and health professionals can receive advice and guidance on CFS/ME. The scheme is nationwide. In Health Mid-Norway, the offer has been strengthened by the establishment of a multidisciplinary investigation and treatment service at St. Olav's hospital. Health South-East has been given the task of establishing an offer for the most ill patients with up to 10 beds. The regional health business informed in the 2008 annual notification that Oslo University Hospital was investigating the professional content, organisation and target group of the offer. Based on a total professional assessment, Oslo University Hospital is setting up two beds at Oslo University Hospital, Department Ullevål, for the investigation of patients who cannot avail themselves of the outpatient offer. Those who cannot be moved will be offered an investigation by the outpatient team. As the interpellant points out, these patients need treatment and follow-up where they live. The State budget for 2010 shows that the Government will pay particular attention to the development of good care services in municipalities and the establishment of good rehabilitation and mastering services in all health regions. In the mission paper of regional health companies, I have asked that patients with CFS/ME be provided with an adequate range of investigations, treatment and rehabilitation, including the provision of learning and mastering courses. The offer shall be developed in cooperation with the Municipalities and National Competence Networks for CFS/ME. Regional health enterprises have been asked to take action to ensure that guidance is provided to local health services. Good services for patients are being developed at national and international level and there is a great deal of research in this area, including: at the university hospitals. In 2009, two international knowledge summaries on ME were carried out, and two others were started. In addition, the National Research Centre for Complementary and Alternative Medicine has received grants from the Health Directorate to assess the effectiveness of alternative treatments for ME. The Health Directorate is planning to publish the results on its websites. New research results and clinical experience with the patient group allow advice and recommendations on the investigation, treatment and follow-up of patients to be more widely used. But there are still more issues that are unsolved. Investigation and follow-up are characterised by disagreement, both in the professional community and among patient groups. We can learn a lot from the experience of models developed to organise good offers for this patient group. Experience from the ME Outpatient Clinic and an outpatient team at Oslo University Hospital HF can be an example of this. Preliminary feedback shows that this is a good and requested offer. Patients receive a knowledge-based multidisciplinary offer of diagnostics and follow-up — which has been highly sought by patients and their relatives. This, together with experience from good care and care services in the municipalities of the most ill patients, is an example of offering that can provide useful experience in developing the service provision elsewhere in the country. I would like to ask the Health Directorate to summarise what is available from new knowledge of investigation, treatment, rehabilitation, care and care. At the same time, I would ask them to evaluate the national effort and provide a status report on the provision of health and care to patients with chronic fatigue syndrome in Norway. I can assure you that I will continue to follow the healthcare provision to this patient group closely. I would also, when the evaluation and summaries of the Health Directorate and the regional health companies are available, consider the further follow-up of the patient group offer. I would also like to assess whether the preparation of an action plan may be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1176	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased with all the measures that the Government has taken. I also feel that the Council of State will follow this closely up. It is incredibly good that many patients get help and support through those measures. Of course, it takes time to make sure that everyone can get help, but some of the answer I feel is that the Council of State may not be talking about exactly the sickest ones. Not everyone can go to the learning and mastering centres. The fact that St. Olav's hospital has received an offer, or that you have an offer in all of the regional health companies, does not mean that the sick are getting help. The most alarming thing is that very many of the sick have one, two or three hospital stays behind them, and they have become sicker by being in a hospital where you are not taken into account when it comes to this: you cannot tolerate light. You can't stand sound. You may not be able to get turned around – here with, as someone has called it. There is an incompetence and also in the regional health enterprises. Why do I get e-mails almost every week from patients and relatives, who are so exhausted and lost? Now, when I have asked three government councils to print out simple rounds to the municipalities and to the Nav offices that they have to take patients seriously, it is very keen to get a response that all patients have a right to investigation, treatment and follow-up of respect, regardless of healthcare, and understanding of their illness. Of course they have it, but what does it help when they don't get it? That's what's my point today. They have the right to do that, yes. You have the Patient Rights Act, yes, but it doesn't help if you meet an incompetent – I'm sorry to say that – healthcare in a good number of places. So let's write 2010. All the measures are great. It's amazing with patients who are not so sick that they can take advantage of the offer that is. But I'm talking about those who are in their beds. Some have been lying down for many, many years. I was at a conference in Stavanger two weeks ago. It was KRF Women who arranged it. We were shocked by everyone who came over all the stories. It was scary. What are they going to do? Why in the world is it not possible to create an action plan or a circular now – today, tomorrow – which means that these too will be understood and given help? They can't wait. They're life-threatening sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1191	If I thought a circular would help, I would of course have sent out a circular. But I want to refer to the newsletter that the Health Directorate sends out – as far as I know – several times a year. In any case, there is one for January 2010 that refers to the ME and that concerns this disease alone. It mentions both research into and the provision of treatment for this disease. I think we need to have some understanding that it takes time to build up a treatment offer. It is frustrating for those who are sick. Of course, it is, especially because this is a patient group that does not necessarily – as the interpellant very strongly stressed – profit from being in hospital, precisely because they cannot be there. They're so sick they can't do it. In this way, better ways of dealing with them must be found, in combination with greater responsibilities for municipalities, of course under the guidance of outpatient teams, such as those in prison. What's at Ullevål. I really want to reject that we have an incompetent healthcare system. I don't see it that way. I believe that both the Health Directorate, the Department and the regional health companies have taken this situation very seriously. I think they should have respect for that. Then, of course, they should also receive support for knowledge building. This means that we need to support research and all other actions. Then I have just underlined – in my first post – that, when all that has been done, when the work done so far has been evaluated, I will carry out an assessment further. A circular writing alone is not enough. An action plan may be the right one, but we have to act long before the plan is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1202	It's a very important debate that interpellant Laila Davøy travels today. Patients who have been diagnosed with ME, or chronic fatigue syndrome, have usually been ill for a long time. Most people have gone through a lot of investigations to rule out other diseases. Not so few have experienced being believed when they have come with their medical history, and some have been directly suspicious. It's bad to be rammed by one like that, too many debilitating, disease. Even worse, it doesn't have to be to get help when you need it the most. Most women and mostly young or young adults get ME. Because it's hard to find concrete measurable guidelines for diagnosis, it usually takes time to figure out that the patient is suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome. Of those who get rammed, it's about. 10-15 pst. who get so sick that they almost become nursing patients. The government has taken several steps to help this patient group, which has been prepared by the Council of State. I would like to mention here that there are several areas of research into possible treatments, including: at the National Research Centre for Complementary and Alternative Medicine in Tromsø, which is mentioned here, and the provision to ME patients is established under the auspices of several health establishments, inter alia. at learning and mastering centres. At the Children's Hospital at the Rikshospitalet, a unit has been created for ME where a two-day stay is offered at the day post, following a standardised multidisciplinary investigation program. The aim of the stay is to finally diagnose and determine the available, triggering and maintaining factors relevant to the individual patient and to provide advice on treatment. A national network of paediatric patients specifically involved in this disease and these patients is also established. Other healthcare groups also work together in networks to identify better knowledge, causes and treatment of ME. We haven't so far been able to draw clear conclusions about what kind of disease ME really is, or what kind of treatment works against these patients that is the frame of what we call a chronic fatigue syndrome. We can see the best results from cognitive therapy and graduated custom training. It is therefore important that we gather the knowledge we are now acquiring and that good follow-up and care are provided in the community environment of the individual patient. It has sometimes been quite difficult for ME patients to receive rehabilitation support, rehabilitation or other social security benefits. In the last few years, however, this has changed somewhat by having qualified ME specialists, who have approved their medical statements on social security benefits for these patients – despite the fact that we can also hear simple stories about the opposite. It can help make everyday life a little easier for people who can experience walking from an active creative life to a situation where they are outside both working life and social life. I also believe that when we now have several professional environments that both research and conduct clinical treatment for patients with ME, we will be able to gain knowledge and insight to provide further relevant treatment and help to this vulnerable patient group. I'm sure the Government will take that challenge very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1217	It is a very important issue that interpellant gratefully addresses today. ME is a disease that affects many people, and which, among other things, are characterised by large individual differences, both in the course of the disease and not least in relation to treatment. It is therefore very important to put in place a system that captures the individual differences among those affected by this disease. One of the main problems associated with ME, in my opinion, is the lack of competence in the healthcare system. This leads, among other things, to: to make it difficult for too many people to get a proper diagnosis. Adequate and good treatment services are difficult to provide, and it is problematic to have patients’ rights fulfilled and other practical considerations related to the individual’s situation. As they say here too, there is little help with a letter. ME is a disease that is relatively unknown in the field of research. It is therefore very important that adequate and good research is put in place. It is necessary to look at the possibilities for building a centre of expertise for the ME, which both caters for the needs of patients for treatment and not least their need for follow-up, and also gathers and develops a professional environment in these areas in Norway. Unfortunately, it is a fact that there are major differences in treatment and follow-up of these patient groups according to the health region, the municipality, the doctor to which the individual patient must relate. One of the main challenges of the disease ME is that we know far too little about which treatments help, and which do not help. It's also so that it's very individual from person to person what works, and what doesn't work. It is therefore important that research is put in place, and that at the same time a wide range of forms of treatment be added, so that individual patients are given the opportunity to try more forms of treatment, with the intention of finding out what is best for individual and individual patients. ME patients have very different functions. In addition, this may vary from day to day. It is therefore important that an individual patient is encircled by a flexible and appropriate follow-up device. It is important to provide for a range of measures according to individual needs, whether care pay for caregivers or a municipal auxiliaries providing necessary services. An action plan for ME and highly skilled outpatient teams following these patients can both be sensible and necessary. At the same time, however, it is important to give high priority to research and flexible and diverse treatment provision during the coming years. A dedicated competence centre for ME may be the necessary locomotive to put in place the necessary knowledge and competence and follow-up of this hard-tested patient group. I have a lot of understanding that this is a difficult and complicated area for the health care community to address. Good political management and implementation of the necessary measures are therefore necessary to start a process that improves the situation of these patients. It is therefore with a clear call for the Minister of Health that I call for the launch of such a centre of expertise in Norway. We cannot sit and testify that a large group of patients are used as caste balls in the Norwegian health and care services, simply because of lack of competence. It is therefore important to recognise that the level of competence is too low and that a large-scale effort is therefore being made in this area. I'll be allowed to finish by setting aside a tribute to the interpellant, who addresses this topic, as well as a tribute to the Minister of Health, who I perceive is at least trying to look at this matter with the necessary severity. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health will return to Stortinget as soon as possible, with an appropriate response that can lead to an improvement for this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1238	I want to commend the interpellant for addressing the situation for this patient group. I know that for a long time she has been committed to this. Patients affected by chronic fatigue syndrome may experience serious illness, leading to both muscle and skeletal disorders, chronic fatigue and also neurological disorders. The disease can be very stressful in itself, but these patients and their relatives also face other challenges. Despite the fact that the disease has been described since the 1960s, there is still a lack of knowledge of diagnostics and good health care treatment. There are still discussions about whether the disease is of a somatic or mental nature, despite the fact that patients have physical symptoms, distress and pain. It is important that health care is not based on an artificial distinction between soma and psyche, as these parts of us humans are inextricably linked. Based on foreign studies, it is estimated that there are between 9 000 and 18 000 people in Norway affected by CFS/ME, the majority of whom are women. It is assumed that approx. 460 people in Norway are seriously ill and in bed. Children and young people can also be affected. Fortunately, there has been a development of the offer for patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. However, we are far from achieving an equivalent health and care provision for these patients. Many people still have to fight to be believed, to get the right diagnosis and to get good treatment and care. Because this is an exclusion diagnosis, the path to correct diagnosis is often very long. Meanwhile, patients are at risk of falling out of social life and working life. I would nevertheless like to point out some positive measures in this area. The Multidisciplinary ME/CFS Centre at Oslo University Hospital offers investigation and guidance. They have both an outpatient offer and an outpatient team, as well as providing guidance to the municipalities. This is important in order to provide patients with better health care where they live, which is also in line with the Cooperation Reform. On the right, the representative, Mr Davøys, supports the call for a greater commitment to several outpatient teams for patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. It would be very useful if the Council of State, through the establishment of such offers, could show that the cooperation reform is somewhat more concrete than what we might have seen in some areas so far. The Educational and Mastering Centre of the Inland Hospital established in 2009 an auxiliary telephone for ME patients and their relatives. This has proved to be a highly sought-after offer, used by both patients and health professionals from all over the country. At the same time, this action provides valuable insight into the challenges patients face, which allows us to improve healthcare provision. The measure has been established as a project, and I would strongly recommend to the Minister of Health and Health to contribute to the continuation and permanent maintenance of the offer. Chronic fatigue syndrome unit at the Rikshospitalet operates both a clinical offer, research and dissemination of competences. Their competence in species of disease in children and young people is particularly important. On the right, we are committed to improving the quality and competence of healthcare in general. In this context, the national competence network also plays an important role. I would therefore like to stress the importance of investing in research in this area, so that patients can get a better offer. The government took a commendable initiative in the 2008 state budget to establish an offer of ten beds for seriously ill patients with CFS/ME. Unfortunately, it took a long time between the initiative and its implementation. However, I would like to ask the Council of State to explain the status of the establishment of this offer and how she assesses the capacity in relation to the need for such treatment for patients in other parts of the country as well. Finally, from the Right, I would like to stress that the offer of rehabilitation needs to be strengthened significantly, including for this patient group. Once patients have received a diagnosis and treatment, it is important to enable them to master everyday life and work as far as possible. This will be a good investment in better quality of life for patients and reduce the need for social security benefits and health care for society. We believe that the next major health policy effort in this area must be in the area of rehabilitation. We hope that the government parties can appreciate the value of a bet in this area, and support us in the demand for a more committed commitment to training during the work on the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1261	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate, including the Council of State. I am very pleased that a number of measures have been taken, and not least I am glad that the Council of State also warns that she might consider an action plan, although it may not be coming around the next corner. I wish it would come tomorrow. I must also be allowed to state that in my interpellation, as I have promoted it here today, I have tried to focus on the sick. Some — perhaps the vast majority — of the measures taken and referred to by many here will not benefit the sick. They're too sick. They cannot come to a day post, they cannot go to a learning and mastering centre, nor can they take a phone. So to the circular that I've been asking for, actually, from three different health ministers in the last few years. I don't think an information letter from the Health Directorate has the same status as a possible circular that legitimizes that ME is a disease and refers to the WHO criteria, that you actually have the right and the right to care at home when you can't go to a hospital or manage to look after yourself. Many of these patients are not getting help today. That's what I've been trying to say. ‘Incompetent health care’ – I would say it in a slightly different way. Of course, we don't have an incompetent health care system, the council knows I don't mean that. But we actually have a health care system that is largely lacking competence at ME – I think that's right. Then it's the Council of State that's in charge of our hospitals. It is the Council of State that is responsible for the Purchasing Office, or the delivery office that supplies probes and syringes, such as: the family that I have raised in the question has to pay myself. They have to cook disposable equipment. They don't know what to do if the probe goes close. Can't the Council of States – it's strange that I have to stand here and ask for it, it's a little special – make sure that you deliver the equipment at least even if the patient is not hospitalized for the removal of the probe? I don't realize that this doesn't mean you're going to be so negative to this. Then there'll be two beds. Three years ago I asked that all the regional health care companies should have some sheltered beds, and there would be ten. Now there's gonna be two, central in Oslo. I don't understand. As far as the sickest people are concerned, that's exactly what they need. Finally, I will say the following, to the Asker and the Bærum case: Patients have not been admitted to treatment under their rights: Full alert. The most ill ME patients do not receive treatment at home. There are no alternatives in the case of the sick: no alarm is running.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1282	The representative Per Arne Olsen was concerned about some of the demanding things here: not enough knowledge has been gathered about what helps and what does not help in the treatment of ME patients. That is why it was also stressed by him and by several others that research is important, and gathering knowledge is important. That's exactly what we're doing. It was asked for a national centre of expertise. Well, there's a national competence network set up. In fact, in our long-term country, where health services are so decentralised, I believe that a network of competences is very important for this patient group, precisely in order to exchange both research data and information on treatment methods based on experience that individual hospitals or healthcare companies, or also municipalities, need. This competence network is managed by the Health Directorate, so it's centrally anchored with solid knowledge, as much as you actually have. When I refer to the information that was sent out, it is not to underestimate this information, because it is actually very good and comprehensive information that is sent out. It will be important for families and for health professionals working with patients who have this disease. It was also said that patients have difficulty being believed. It is clear that it is terribly difficult when people feel that they are sick, not to be believed. It is important to stress that healthcare is extremely responsible here. So it's like ME patients, like everyone else, have the right to draw up an individual plan. It should not be linked to the diagnosis, but it should look precisely at the treatment, i.e. the right to treatment and the right to follow up. I am aware that Rissa Municipality will develop a rehabilitation offer for ME patients, and it will open during the year, at least as planned. It could be of some help. Then it is that when only two beds are created, it is precisely because – as the interpellant himself said – these sickest patients do not benefit from being in hospital. They can't actually be there. Then it does not help to create ten beds. It would be better to start talking about treating patients where they are. With regard to details about probes, I can now do nothing but refer to the ME telephone and to the guidance and support that relatives can get through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1300	That being the case, it is no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1306	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1326	In Case No: 2–5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-02.ana.ud2250e1396	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
