ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e22	The representatives Thomas Breen and Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Gunn Olsen from 5 October until further notice from the representative Morten Höglund on leave from 6 October to 12 October and from the representative of Mr Bård Hoksrud on leave from 7 October to 12 October, both in order to take part in the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE during the elections in Kyrgyzstan by the representatives of Susanne Bratli, Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen and Åse Michaelsen on leave from 7 October to 12 October in order to take part in the autumn session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Palermo On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth For Telemark County: Kåre Fostervold, Lene Wagslid and Odin Adelsten Bohmann For Nord-Trøndelag: County of Bord Langsävold
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e93	Lene Wagslid is present and will take the seat. Councillor Sigbjørn Johnsen will transfer 1 kgl. the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e98	There are actually two propositions. That's Prop. 1 S, State budget 2011, and it is Prop. 1 LS, taxes and charges 2011. [[See Minutes]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e105	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e108	On behalf of Solvency Horne, Hanne C.S. Iversen and myself would like to make representations to equate the literature.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e113	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e125	In fact, a government budget consists of both revenue and expenditure. That's why there were two propositions, one about income and one about expenditure. The 2011 government budget — ‘twenty-ølløv’ — is a responsible budget for job creation, well-being and value creation. We invest in our future workforce and production through increased investment in school and education. Municipalities receive an increase in income of nearly 6 billion. kr for care and well-being, and hospitals are strengthened by about 1 billion. kr, so that health and treatment safety is strengthened. Appropriations for road, rail and maritime transport are increasing by approximately 2.6 billion. kr, so that the historical investment in traffic is maintained. At the same time, this is a tight budget that builds up under the rules of action for the use of oil money in the economy. The 4-percentile gap is reduced to 7.4 billion. kr in 2011. By about the same amount of oil money used from 2011 to 2012, we can be back on track in 2012. It is important to ensure jobs in Norwegian industry and value creation throughout the country. The budget also contributes to ensuring the long-term financing of the welfare state, so that future generations can also carry out that task. Norway is in a completely different situation than most countries around us. There's reason to be proud of that. At the same time, we must assume that we also rely on other countries to succeed in their economic policies. Norway has an open economy, and we are vulnerable to what is happening in other countries. The financial crisis has shown us how fast it can turn into the economy. Ireland is an example of this. A few years ago, the country was referred to as the ‘Celtic Tiger’, with strong growth and high activity in the economy. Now it's the opposite. People in Ireland, like people in many other parts of Europe, have to pay dearly for the economy to come out of course. The lesson is clear. No trees grow into heaven, nor is it possible to borrow for lasting prosperity and well-being. We experienced some of the same thing after the loan-funded release in the Norwegian economy in the mid-1980s. If we don't keep basic order in the economy, we don't succeed in work, production and well-being either. Let me take a little historical look: Christmas Eve 1969, the telephones in the Ministry of Industry called. It was told from Phillips Petroleum that one of the wells in the Ekofisk field looked promising. Very likely, it was a viable oil field they had found. It was the beginning of a new economic era for Norway. Some years earlier, a small group of officials, led by Jens Evensen, had been far enough prepared to secure Norway's right to rule over the continental shelf within what became the Norwegian economic zone. In St.meld. No 25 for the place of Petroleum activity in the Norwegian community, then Minister of Finance Per Kleppe presented the main lines of the policy to shape the oil industry. The Storting gave its support to this on 6 June 1974. Oil and oil revenues were to be the property of the people and subject to popular governance through the Storting. The new wealth should be used to develop a better quality society. A significant part of the revenue was to be invested outside the country, and consideration for future generations meant that only part of the domestic use of oil revenues should be used for increased consumption. There should be money left when the oil business once ceased. Soon, 40 years later, we're now in the middle of meeting these goals, and we're doing it in a way that's being noticed outside the world. That is why the rule of action is important. It makes sure that we separate the use of oil revenues from the proceeds. Over time, we're just going to use the real returns of the fund and save for future generations. The rule of action also states that the use of oil revenues in the state budget should offset fluctuations in the economy. We're going to spend more when times are bad, and less when times are good. The rule of action is not a goal in itself, nor is the so-called 4-percentile. On the other hand, they are tools for achieving important policy objectives. The main objectives are work for all and long-term funding of the welfare country. I belong in many ways to a lucky generation. We have experienced strong growth in income and living standards. Prosperity and prosperity have increased to a level that our parents could dream of most. But they had a dream that our generation would get better, not least get better education and more opportunities in life. We've got that, and we'll thank you for that. Therefore, we need to ensure that future generations have the strength to bear their own well-being and our common well-being on their backs. That's what the generation contract is called. We have both a moral and financial responsibility to fulfill this important contract. At the same time, we must remember that both oil and other natural resources are of little value if we do not have the ability to process and create values of these resources. That's why the story of our common well-being is primarily the story of the labour force, the story of those who have used their abilities, hands and heads to create the society we have today. That's the way it should be in the future. Hans Børli writes in the poem «An iron door clink»: ‘I often remember the clink of iron on the swallowing door home on the torpedo of the forest; Hender’s gentle grip, the longing of the earth’s peasants, had worn it thin like a bird’s wing.’ It's the thousands of work hands that build and shape our country, the ones that every day do their own to keep social machinery going, the ones that keep the country in claim, but that rarely or never get in the papers. ‘Norway is a small country, but a great example.’ What he was aiming for was, among other things, the good economic situation, the low unemployment rate and not least the ability we have in this country to cooperate and make a common promise when required by us. Contrasts become great when we look around in our own world, whether we look at unemployment, distribution, income growth, government finances or foreign economy. There are many who would have liked to have changed with Norway. In times of crisis, it is often those who have the least, who have to pay the most. Let's see. This is what makes it so hard to tighten up when the economy is falling. It is important, therefore, that we do not live beyond our ability when times are good. That's a good lesson. Despite our strong financial position, we are also vulnerable, because we depend on the world around us for good and bad. Financial crisis, climate challenges and fear of terrorism are examples of this. We can't hide from what's happening around us. But the best protection against crises and international setbacks is that we keep order in our own house. The main task of economic policy in 2009 and 2010 has been to help keep employment up and unemployment down. We have put in place strong measures to counter the consequences of the international financial crisis – and we have succeeded. Both the decline in output and the rise in unemployment have been relatively small in the international context. The Norwegian unemployment rate is well below the level in most other developed countries. We've done one of our most important tasks, keeping people in work. This has not come about by itself. This is a result of the policy pursued in Norway. The challenge in the future will be to meet these good results. In the years preceding the international financial crisis, the Norwegian economy had an adventurous development. Economic growth was high, and productivity growth was better than in the countries we trade most. Prosperity and well-being were significantly improved. Public welfare services were further developed and expanded. Strong rises in oil demand gave growth impetus to the rest of the Norwegian economy. Good labour supply from new and old EEA countries helped to spread bottlenecks in the economy. Then came the financial crisis. It also hit Norway. The financial crisis has led to the strongest international setback since World War II. But fortunately, the world economy is now on its way up again since the last six months last year. International financial markets operate much better than in the period following the end of the financial crisis in the autumn of 2008. Growth in highly emerging economies such as China and India is great. It has also taken place in Europe and the United States, but has not yet got a proper foothold. The state financial situation in developed countries creates uncertainty about future growth. Many countries have to tighten their budgets to prevent government debt from coming out of control. Several European countries experienced in our failing confidence in the country's ability to pay its debts, and the market interest rates on their government loans increased significantly. EU and IMF aid measures resolved the situation, but recent interest rates have increased again in several countries. There are considerable differences in the growth outlook between the different euro area countries. Countries with government financial problems are struggling with low growth. A number of EU countries have adopted or announced substantial budgetary constraints. This part of the creation is going to be demanding. We have already seen signs of social unrest in most countries that are hardest hit by the financial crisis. Unemployment among young people is a major challenge in many countries. We can't afford to let young people lose their opportunities and their faith in the future. Everybody's gonna lose it. The financial crisis also posed a significant risk that the Norwegian economy would be affected by this severe recession. Against this background, fiscal policies were turned in a strong, expansionary direction both in 2009 and 2010. The monetary policy was reformed, and from the autumn of 2008 until the summer of 2009, the Norwegian Bank reduced the interest rate of government to the lowest level ever. In addition, significant measures were taken to improve the conditions of the financial industry, financial markets and to facilitate access to loans for households, enterprises and municipalities. The new information we have received since we provided the revised national budget suggests that growth in the Norwegian economy continues, although it turned out that the pace of entry into 2010 was slightly lower than we assumed in May. In particular, private consumption has developed weaker than estimated. In the future, however, we expect the growth in consumption to recover. The growth of the mainland economy is now set at 1,7 pst. this year, which is slightly lower than the estimate in the revised national budget. For 2011, growth is estimated to be 3.1 pst, which is about half a percentage point above the estimated trend growth in the Norwegian economy. The labour market has recently shown a stable trend. The fall in employment stopped at the end of last year and the unemployment rate is expected to remain relatively stable around 3.5 p.p. in 2010 and 2011. It's clearly lower than the average over the last 20 years of 4,5 pst. The government follows the rule of action for the gradual phasing-in of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy. As stated above, the trade freedom granted by this rule has been used actively in 2009 and 2010. The alternative to this strong use would have been a fall in employment and a significantly higher unemployment rate. We've managed to avoid that. However, at the same time, the expansion of budgetary policy has led to the use of oil money at a significantly higher level than the 4-percentile line. Therefore, an expansionary policy in recessions must be followed by tightening when the situation in the economy normalises, so that we get back to this 4-percentile. Therefore, it will be in line with the rule of action now to tighten the budget and reduce the distance to the 4-percentile line, as announced by the government. There's two reasons for that. Firstly, we must take account of industry and competitive industries. The level of costs in Norway is high and Norwegian enterprises are vulnerable to further strengthening of the krona. It is therefore important that fiscal policy does not contribute to a peculiar rise in interest rates and to a stronger dollar. Secondly, we need to ensure that we comply with the generational contract, as we had in the past, so that we ensure good welfare arrangements in the future as oil revenues decrease. The longer the use of oil revenues exceeds the 4-percentage limit, the less the future contribution from the Pension Fund will be. The government has found it appropriate to keep the use of oil money unchanged from 2010 to 2011, measured at so-called constant prices. It involves a budget reduction of 0,2 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. This is the first budget to be tightened since 1999 and since the adoption of the action rule. In the 2011 budget, we're adding up to a use of oil revenues of 128 billion. kr. The distance to the 4-percentile line is significantly reduced and is estimated to be 7.4 billion. kr in the 2011 budget. There's a drop of about 12 billion. kr compared to our current 2010 estimate. With the unchanged use of oil from 2011 to 2012, we will be back on track again in 2012. It shows that the policy is working, and this will give us greater freedom of action later on. Our parental regeneration helped to give us security and opportunities, with a much weaker starting point than what we have. We can give back a handshake – security of getting old, security of care and access to Community services. We must then pursue a long-term and responsible economic policy. Ageing of the population will lead to higher expenditure on pensions, care and health, while the growth in tax revenue will gradually decline. The rule of action ensures that oil wealth will make a lasting contribution to the financing of welfare schemes, but alone this is not enough to cover the increase in age-related expenditure. The taskbar is the key to meeting these challenges. A high labour input per capita provides a high tax base and high tax income. When fewer people are out of the labour force, public expenditure will also be reduced as social security costs and social benefits are reduced. In addition, work provides an important security for individuals. The value of our total labour input is about 80 pst. of national wealth. The pension fund and the value of the remaining reserves of oil and gas on Norwegian cap form on its side at the lower edge of 10 pst. of this fortune. These figures illustrate the importance of succeeding in caring for and developing the labour force. Education is important in order to succeed in the workline and to secure the future workforce. Quality throughout the education cycle is therefore important. In the state budget, the cost of quality measures is continued in initial training at a high level, and we will continue to work for increased implementation in secondary schools, including the United Kingdom. through increased appropriations for the New GIV project – implementation in high school means it, but ‘new giving’ is also great words. Every high school dropout is a loss both for individuals and for society. The reason for the dropout is often back in time, before high school. Therefore, safe growth, good quality in kindergarten and primary education are important prerequisites for preventing later non-response. This is why considerable efforts need to be made in this area. In addition, it is important that young people who want to work have a place in which to get a good foothold in their working life. It is necessary that both public and private employers contribute to achieving this. A good learning environment, both for students and teachers, is important for learning outcomes. So we want to make sure that we have good educational structures. We know that the need for rehabilitation in Norwegian schools is high, and we are therefore proposing to increase the investment framework for the interest compensation scheme for school and swimming facilities by a further 2 billion. kr in 2011. The challenge of the future is to ensure a well-qualified and sufficient workforce. Having enough places to study is therefore important. We propose to increase the funding to around 2,200 new places of study in 2011. In addition, some 2 000 multi-annual study places are set up as a result of the continuation of the study places set up in 2009 with new coal. In addition, the government proposes to increase the Research Fund by 3 billion. kr in 2011. It is important that we focus on the entire educational cycle, from kindergarten to higher education. Therefore, the government continues to invest in kindergartens. It is those who are in kindergarten today who will contribute to the future well-being. There's reason to think carefully through it. The Government proposes to increase the allocation of measures to improve the quality of kindergartens. In this way, we ensure that our children get the best starting point for the further education cycle. The government wants the parental payment to be so low that anyone who wants it can afford to pay for a kindergarten. Therefore, the Government proposes to continue the maximum price of parental payment at the same nominal level as in 2010. While the earmarked grants for the creation of new kindergartens are proposed further, the regular operating grants for kindergartens are now proposed to be included in the municipality's framework grant. Ensuring the workline is also about securing those who are now completely or partly outside the workplace, a place within. Qualification programmes for persons with significantly reduced working and income capacity are important. We prioritise this in our budget, by proposing to increase the funding to cover the municipalities' additional expenditure by 65 million. kr. In addition, there is an increase of 200 intervention sites for this group. Unfortunately, there are too many in our society who have not been able to participate in the prosperity journey that most of us have had in the last decades. One of the most important tasks that politicians have is to secure people's security and belief in the future. Having good care is important for drug users to have the care and dignity they deserve. This is why we have increased significantly over the last few years the appropriations for the Roadmap of the drug field. We are now proposing a further escalating of 100 million. kr. Most children growing up in Norway are doing well. That is why it is so important that we provide for those children who do not receive this safe growth and care they are entitled to. We want to help ensure that all children are safe and believe in the future. That's why we have to have a child protection that works. Child protection shall ensure that children who do not receive sufficient safety at home are taken care of as well. The Government proposes to increase the appropriations for both State and municipal child protection in 2011. We're proposing an earmarked grant of 240 million. kr to municipal child protection, among others to new posts so that child protection can be strengthened locally. In addition, we also propose that government child protection be given significant increases in funding. Money is one thing, but in addition, child protection in municipalities must have good people and good trade unions. Cooperation across municipal borders will in many cases be necessary to achieve this. Security is also about ensuring good health. The provision of health care means a great deal to the individual's living and life span and is an important prerequisite for a good society. The economy of hospitals is being strengthened in 2011, so that more patients are being treated. Waiting times will be required to be reduced. With about 1 billion. NOK to increased appropriations for operations, we facilitate an activity growth of 1.4 pst. in 2011. In addition, we're proposing barely 450 million. SEK in investment loans for new projects. It is proposed, inter alia: a grant for the construction of a new hospital in Eastfold. The interaction reform is followed up with total appropriations of 580 million. kr. Giving older people a worthy old age is important to the government. We want to strengthen the care sector and take new steps to follow-up on the Health Plan 2015. A strengthened local economy enables municipalities to increase their efforts in the care sector. In addition, we propose to grant approx. 220 million. kr for the construction of 2000 new nursing homes and homes. It is important for the government to provide and contribute to the security of the individual living there. The majority of welfare production takes place in our municipalities. Therefore, we need to ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to provide good welfare services to their citizens. It is both a state responsibility and a municipal responsibility. How the municipalities, for example, carrying out their responsibilities as employers, becomes essential for the scope and quality of the services. In the last five years, the local government sector has been given a significant boost. It will continue in 2011. The government's proposal represents a real growth in the total income of the local government sector in 2011 of 5.7 billion. SEK, of which SEK 2,75 billion. kr, so-called free income. The government wants everyone to have access to artistic and cultural experiences. The government will continue its efforts on the Cultural Lift. Since 2005, the government has given a boost to a wide range of cultural and volunteering purposes, precisely because it is so important for the quality of life that people are going to experience. With the draft budget today, the government continues this promise. We're proposing increased cultural spending of about 640 million. kr. The government is committed to creating a society with less crime and more physical security. That is why we want to increase police staff in the future. In the budget, we propose to increase the appropriations for the police and prosecution authorities by almost 550 million. kr. This is in addition to an already strong and historic commitment in the budgetary year in which we are now involved. Wide international involvement is important for the government. We propose to continue with a high level of international assistance. Overall, the aid budget is 1.02 pst. of GNI. We are committed to a continued high Norwegian contribution to foreign military operations for peace and stability – in order to contribute to the security of other countries. By investing in actions in the north, Norway shall consolidate its position as a leading actor in Arctic cooperation. The Nordic regions are the government's main strategic investment in foreign policy. The generation contract is not just about handing over the next generation to a healthy economy – it's also about handing over the creation in good condition. It's an important task for the government. The government continues to place considerable emphasis on the environment in the State budget for 2011, with particular emphasis on environmental assistance, rail, environmental technologies, CO2 management, renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. It is important for the government to ensure a good transport offer. We want to upgrade the infrastructure to make everyday life easier and safer for people, to improve the environment, to make society more inclusive and accessible to everyone, and not least to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. National transport plan 2010–2019 has an overall planning framework for the period of approximately 100 billion. kr higher than the previous national transport plan planning framework. The government continues to step up the draft budget for 2011 and proposes to increase the appropriations for road, rail and maritime transport by just over 2.6 billion. kr from the aged budget in 2010. On my trips to and from town, Oslo, I see how fast and effective parts of this money is now being used for new roads and railways, and that's good. The interest compensation scheme for county municipalities is continued with a new investment framework in 2011 of 2 billion. kr. We are also proposing an increase in the appropriations for the reward scheme for better public transport, less car use in urban areas and for the Transnova project to help reduce CO2 emissions from the transport sector. Infrastructure is important to our business. That's why what we're doing now is important to all of our businesses. But the most important thing for business is that we dampen the pressure in the economy and help not to get a strange interest rate increase that will give us a stronger dollar rate. Some of the consultations we've had with business can be summed up in one line: get us more engineers and keep the economy in order. With today's budget, we both meet these requirements. The tax system shall ensure revenue for the Community and contribute to the redistribution and good use of resources. The government has shown that it is possible to reconcile a more effective tax system with increased redistribution and better protection of the environment. Significant tax changes have been made without increasing the overall level of taxation from 2004. The tax reform in 2006 has given us a fairer tax system by making the large difference in the maximum marginal tax rates on labour income and on profits far on the road. Dividend tax revenues were more than tripled from 2006 to 2008. Changes in the inheritance tax and, in particular, in the property tax have also strengthened the distribution profile of the tax system. The fight against tax evasion has escalated, both nationally and through international cooperation, and this is happening, among other things. by signing tax agreements with so-called tax havens. These are agreements that will provide us with transparency and measures to reduce the number of hiding places for those who will avoid the Community's obligations. The government has strengthened environmental taxes to facilitate green migration. Environmental and energy-related taxes have increased by nearly 1.7 billion. kr from 2005 to 2010. In the 2011 budget, the government takes a further step by downgrading the entry point of the CO2 component of the one-off charge, and it will enable us to achieve the target of a new car emissions of 120 grams per kilometre in a short period of time. The tax system must stimulate work. Today’s tax rules are adapted to the old age pension system and that you are either working or taking out a full pension to a large extent. In particular, the tax restriction rule is poorly adapted to a new pension scheme. The rule provides higher marginal taxes on work for pensioners with low incomes than for other groups. It opens up unfortunate configurations. And that's how the new pension system, which is going to work from 1 January next year, makes it easier to combine work and retirement and stimulate work. The Government therefore proposes that the tax limitation rule for AFP and old-age pensioners be replaced by a new tax deduction on pension income. The deduction ensures that those with only a minimum pension still do not pay income taxes. The deduction is reduced only against pension income. The marginal tax on pensioners' labour income is thus reduced to the same level as for employees. It is important to stimulate continued efforts in the labour market. The marginal tax on capital of low-income pensioners will also be reduced to the same level as for other taxpayers. In addition, it is proposed to increase the social security tax on pension income and to liquidate the special deduction for age. Overall, this proposal provides a tax relief for the pensioner group of 1.35 billion. kr. The proposal has good distribution effects. About 59 pst. by the AFP and old-age pensioners receive a tax relief with the proposal, about 11 pst. receive unchanged tax, and about 30 pst. gets a tightening. Those with incomes of less than NOK 350 000 receive continuous relief from this proposal in the Pensioners' Group. Many pensioners will come out of the new system very well. This is because the new deduction is determined only on the basis of own pension income and married AFP and old-age pensioners can receive their own tax deductions. The value of two tax deductions will in part be significantly greater than the current tax limit for married couples, which sees the income of spouses as a whole. It's rarely popular to suggest increased taxes for someone. But sometimes it's necessary. We proposed in 2006 to withdraw the tax relief of the Bondevik government in 2005 and the proposed reliefs in 2006. This gives us about 14 billion. kr more for care and well-being in 2011. The taxes on wealth have been increased for those with high assets. At the same time, there are about 500,000 people today who pay taxes on wealth than in 2005. Many of these are pensioners. Overall, pensioners have benefited from a property tax of about 500 million. kr since we took over in 2005. The proposal we are making for 2011 ensures that the good distribution characteristics of the tax system – insofar as they include processing characteristics – are maintained and strengthened. For 2011, too, the government is assuming an unchanged level of taxation. Of course, the State budget is about money, about the size of budget lines, and that it is not given enough. There are many people who seem to think that only there is enough money, everything can be solved. More importantly, it's probably how the money is spent, what they're going to do, and what kind of results we get. Even in one of the richest countries in the world, we cannot escape those choices. In 1949, Hermann Gmeiner founded SOS children's cities. It happened in Imst, Austria. He had seen what happened in the extension of the war, orphans who were neglected. He understood too well what it could lead to. In 2010 there is still a long way to fulfill his vision, which was as follows: "The day we can rightly call all the children of the world our children is the first day of peace among men." Children and young people – in Norway and in the world – are our common future. That is why policy must have a perspective that goes beyond the needs we have today. Policies shall bind generations together for a common future. That's why safe growth is important, that we have a child protection that works, that youth can get through high school in a good way, and that youth has a job to do. That is why we must fight poverty and the destruction of nature and the basis of life. Education and work must therefore replace unemployment and distrust of youth policy leadership in many countries. My generation and our generation have an advantage no other generations until we have had. We have the historical knowledge of what has gone wrong. We need to use that knowledge to make the important and right choices for the future. It is also about this economic policy. The 2011 state budget is about taking the right action for today’s situation, but it is equally about taking the important political grips of future Norway. Before the summer, I invited young people to make recordings to the Minister of Finance in the form of a blog contest – I have become quite modern gradually. A girl named Maren, then in the seventh grade at Grave School in Bærum, wrote, among other things. the following: "We must not spend all our money on unnecessary things, we must save a little for our next generations. So don't drag up the ladder! We don't just have to think about ourselves. The people of our next generations are going to have it as well as us. Maybe we can make them do it better than we do?' Now, on behalf of the government, when I present the proposal to the 2011 government budget – «twenty-five» – it is with a strong will to meet Maren's hope for the future. There's a red thread going through the story. We're on the shoulders of those who made the decisions before us. We reap the fruits of the work of those who were before us. Now we are being tested in the political everyday life. Now we're going to make the wise choices. The work on addressing today’s challenges needs to be underpinned by the opportunities to meet tomorrow’s challenges. The government presents to the Storting a budget that is an answer to today's challenges, but it's also an answer to those who come after us. This is a budget that strengthens the Community between generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e304	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one entry of up to 5 minutes from each of the batch groups. That is in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to depart from Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, so that, after each intervention by the opposition parties, a comment is given by the Minister of Finance and then a final comment by the representative of the opposition party of up to 2 minutes each. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e313	Our distinguished finance minister with the fantastic dialect has just presented the government's proposals for the 2011 government budget – I guess I'll say 'twenty-dollar' too, so we have it on the line here. That's clearly what it's called in the hall. The budget, although it's tight, is a little bit brighter than what we saw just a short time ago. There is good reason to be somewhat positively surprised by the strength of the Norwegian economy, almost two years after the financial crisis overthrew the world. Furthermore, Norway is at risk of new international setbacks. But if there is something that the financial crisis has shown us, it is that the basic economic mechanisms that we have built around Norwegian economic policy, which fortunately are also broadly anchored here in Stortinget, work well. Holding back in good times has given us muscles and credibility to get us through the crisis. Now that the space for action is growing, it's because we also succeed in our policies. Several are at work, industrial production is rising, and sick leave is falling. All these things are not for the Norwegian government alone to take credit for, nor is Norway dependent on what is happening outside the country and in cooperation with the parties. But in addition, it drops e.g. The figures of asylum, which are a direct consequence of the political decisions that this House has taken, are the restrictions we did last year. That shows that the policy is working. Just that gives us two and a half billion. kr more for next year. So it does not happen by itself, but as a result of a number of political choices and priorities. Nevertheless, the 2011 budget is a tighter budget than we have seen in recent years. In fact, as the Minister of Finance rightly said, the first budget since 1999 has been a fiscal tightening, i.e. expenditure is increasing less than the growth of the economy. We are getting close to the 4-percent path in the rule of action this year and are going to be about on the track in 2012. It is a good response to those who felt ahead just a short time ago that the rule of action as a tool in economic policy was dead and that we had lost control of the use of oil money. They have made a thorough mistake. This is a responsible budget for the Norwegian economy, a budget that ensures the security of both jobs and people who depend on mortgages. We are doing two important things in the budget that the Minister of Finance has now presented. We're cutting down on the use of oil while we're tightening up and building up the Community solutions. It almost seems to be too good to be true, but that's exactly what's happening. Because we've succeeded in part of the policy, we can expand welfare at a time when a lot of other countries are releasing public budgets with an ax. Within the framework of a reduced use of oil money and an unchanged level of taxation, we strengthen Community solutions in health, care, school and culture, as well as stepping up important investments in the road and the road. However, this does not, in my view, constitute the main elements of the year's budget. In addition to providing a contribution to people who are concerned about the competitive situation of enterprises that are dependent on being able to compete with foreigners, this is also a budget for those who constitute the small minority in Norway. Most people are doing quite well in Norway. For this reason, neither in terms of tax cuts nor in terms of other budgetary proposals are the broad groups of the population in line. On the other hand, in this year's budget, we are going to give priority to those who do not have the strongest speakers or the largest lobby organisations in their backs – the small minority: the child-rescue children who have failed by all, the lonely elderly who are worried about getting a safe and dignified care when they grow old, the boys and the girls who fall out of high school, the addicts and not least all those who are worried about the future, have a response in this budget. This year, it's our priority. We're going to see the kids who don't feel safe at home or at school, because we don't have one kid to lose. We need all our young people in the future. We're going to build out both nursing homes and nursing places, so that none of our elders are going to worry about old age, and we're going to make sure that more people have a job they like. Some people ask what the vision of government parties is. This budget is an answer to that question. It is a budget that ensures safe economic governance and security for the jobs in Norway, while more and more of those who have fallen outside the Norwegian community get a small contribution from those of us who have been chosen to manage our amazing wealth. I am delighted to debate this with the opposition over the next few weeks, and look forward to hearing the opposition's reactions in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e332	There will be an opportunity now, because the next speaker is the representative Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e335	It is good that expectations are created. A lot of money is spent on the budget submitted. And it is clear – the Norwegian economy is going well, and the state of Norway is rich and has the opportunity to make large donations in many areas. At the same time, unlike previous speakers, I believe that this budget is marked by the lack of the great vision, the need for reform to solve some of the major challenges we actually face in society. Almost all areas receive some more funding, so that many will be satisfied, but at the same time we will continue to face challenges in a number of areas, although the budget presented today is what is likely to be adopted. We have recorded that the government greatly boasts of low unemployment in Norway. It is very good to point out that there is something Norway has done, while other countries are struggling. At the same time, I believe that you greatly jump over all those who are outside, all those who are not part of the working life, but who should have been there, or who want to be there. Even if you say that you come with more money and do something more, we will nevertheless see from the budget that the number of those who are outside the labour market will actually increase in 2011. One boasts that one has managed to have a low unemployment rate, but many and more are going to fall outside. It's worrying. My great concern is for the elderly, the nursing and the retired. One has been very concerned about an election promise that everyone who needs it will have a sick home by 2015. But what we choose to do in the state budget proposal is to provide an opportunity for commitments to several hospitals and care centres in the municipalities. But a lot of Norwegian municipalities are struggling with the economy, and the big challenge for a lot of them is to manage the operational costs associated with the care of the elderly. One thing is to hear what the government is saying, I thought it was interesting to register what the KS, the community's stakeholder organisation, has as its headline on the Internet page now at 0 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox The title is «Brems on in the municipalities». They also write that there is no room for new bets, and that some municipalities also have to cut services. It is the reality that the municipalities themselves convey – not the dream picture that the government is trying to create. Unfortunately, I don't think you're going to get to the target of the number of hospitals you're occupied with, because many municipalities just can't afford to run them because the funds proposed are too small. There should have been a larger investment grant, and there should have been earmarked resources for the operation of elderly care. Now, when the government cheaply earmarks funds for child protection to strengthen a very important service in the municipal sector, there is clearly no problem with earmarking. Then you should have also earmarked for the elderly caregivers. You don't choose to do that, but you leave it to the municipalities. In the health sector: Despite the fact that every year the government can boast of spending more money on health services than in the previous year, however, the number of patients on waiting lists under this government has increased by approx. 20,000 more each year. It is stated in the State budget and has been presented to have increased patient treatment, or increased production, of 1.4 pst. It is a meager comfort for all those who are on the waiting list as of today and are waiting for a necessary treatment that they are legally entitled to. It's pretty unworthy. Even with a little bit of a base of 1 billion. kr more, you do not do the big grips in the case of system changes. Nor are the priorities needed for further consideration. Many of these could also return to work more quickly. I note that the generational contract that the Minister of Finance is engaged in, commendably enough, obviously should not always benefit the elderly, because now also 30 pst. by pensioners pay more tax. It's affordable for those with low pensions to pay a little less tax, but why every day they hit 30 pst. by pensioners by paying more tax on their pensions to cover the pension of other pensioners? Retirement is a statutory right, a right to which you yourself have paid, and is not an alms from the state. While, in my view, the government is failing in some areas, there has also been no focus on improving the efficiency of public bureaucracy. Virtually all directorates and agencies are increasing their budgets from year to year, and there will be few demands to spend less money in the state bureaucracy. The government could have done that with good certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e358	There are several things in the post from the representative, Leirstein, which will certainly be a rich opportunity to come back to later. But let me point to some main features that I think it is important further to underline. It's kind of in the opposition's role to have a little more money and to think that the government's policy is a little grey. But there are three main features of this budget that are important. One is to make sure people have jobs. It's actually a pretty big vision to do it, when you look at what's happening ashore around us, where it's not a matter of course that people have jobs. Strengthening production life by looking out for the competitiveness of our businesses is also an important vision of our policies, as well as facilitating a small minority that has not been given the same prosperity development as the rest of us. I believe that the three in sum describe a way forward and a vision for what this government will work with in the future. It is important to stress that in many ways we are a privileged people. Look around Europe and elsewhere in the world! It is important that we do not become haughty, but are humble about the opportunities we have been given. So it's true that there are some pensioners who get increased taxes with the proposal being made. But it's a total tax relief for pensioners of 1.35 billion. NOK, and that tax relief is paid through other parts of the tax system, which we are all going to be involved in financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e369	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his comments. That is, of course, the division of roles in Norwegian policy. I think it's all right to leave to the government itself to boast of its own budget, and then it's the opposition's role to manage to point out some of what we think is missing. Yes, the government has some visions, but I think the visions are flawed. When you talk about the importance of and the need for us to have a lot of people at work, it's very good. But I tried to point out in my post that there are a lot of people outside. I have registered that the government says that one now wants to come up with a few more measures. Nevertheless, we can see from the statistics in the state budget now presented that very many will also be outside. It is also a concern, given the development of wealth in Norway, that very many are out of work and cannot take part in it. So we share the concern of the government. My claim is that the government is doing too little to get this in place. This is the case with the tax relief pointed out by the Minister of Finance in the case of pensioners, that there are some groups that receive a lower tax on their pension. It's all right, but I can't in my wild imagination see the need to hit 30 pst. by pensioners by paying more. It is a pension they themselves have paid in the form of social security contributions. Throughout a long life, they have contributed to the Norwegian community. Then they'll plan their old age. It is quite easy to change the tax system for pensioners, and the fact that someone then receives a higher tax makes it harder for many older people to plan their old age. I think that's worrying. I fear that when you can do these grips now, you can also figure out how to do new grips later. And it can make everyday life more difficult. Me and the Progress Party are concerned that the most important thing in this budget should be to focus on the elderly, the nurturing and the retired. Not all pensioners are in a vulnerable group, but we know that we have many elderly caregivers who need good treatment in the future. Unfortunately, I don't think this budget is going to meet the electoral commitments that the government was very concerned about, given the health care coverage up to 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e382	At a time when the rest of Europe must cut heavily in its budgets, I think it is worth remembering that we are lucky in Norway. We have a lot of oil revenue. We have forward-looking businesses. We have capable people in both the public and private sectors who have contributed to Norway being a rich country and a good country to live in for the most part. The challenge we have in Norway is to ensure that we will continue to be so when oil revenues gradually decline and the cost of health care and care for the elderly will gradually rise sharply. The biggest weakness in the budget is that the government does not use the large space for action to give a real boost to school and transportation. I miss a bigger boost for the training of teachers. I miss a bigger boost for research. And at a time when increased costs are eating up to a great extent the increased appropriations for transport, new building methods should also be opened up. I simply lack a strategy for growth and sustainable welfare. It seems a little bit like the government in the joy of letting go of the budget is leaning back a little and sung in the shine. The government should have given recognition to all the competent people in the public and private sectors, to the owners of the companies that make sure that values are created and that care is lifted. Because if we are to ensure well-being even in the years to come, we must create more, not more taxes. During the financial crisis, Norway has lost 34 000 jobs in the private sector, while we have established 24 000 new jobs in the public sector. I think most people see that it's not sustainable. That is why we need to make it easier for job creators, entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why we have to lower the taxes for those with low and normal employee incomes and lower the wealth tax, so that it becomes more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. It is gratifying that the government is now approaching the rule of action for the use of oil money. It's right-wing happy, and it'll get Right-wing support. At the same time, it is absolutely essential to show moderation and accountability in economic policy, even in the time to come. Many firms in the competitive sector have lost their competitiveness. Yes, competitiveness has deteriorated every year under the government of Stoltenberg. It threatens many jobs along the coast. It is therefore essential that we be able to reverse that trend and ensure that competitiveness is gradually improved. The Government proposes a new tax system for pensioners in 2011. It is absolutely necessary to adapt to the new pension reform. It is right to lower the tax for those with low pensions so that working becomes more profitable. At the same time, the Right believes that excessive tax increases are being pushed into large groups of pensioners. The background to the reform is that it should be more profitable to work. But it's not just to say to someone who's had a pension for ten years, that you can compensate for the tax increase by working a little bit extra. Therefore, the Right believes that the gradual introduction of this reform needs to be assessed by allowing those over 70 years of age to retain the old tax system, while at the same time looking at tax reliefs that can benefit pensioners. On the right, the government budget for next year will look at priorities within the budget framework. We will then give priority to what can create growth and sustainable well-being in Norway, by investing more in transport, by investing more in the training of teachers and research, and by lowering taxes so that it becomes more profitable to work and invest in Norwegian enterprises. In the last four to five years, the main argument in Norwegian policy has been how much more money is allocated for different purposes. The results have not been in relation to the use of money. Therefore, it is important that we now look at how we can better use money in the public sector so that we can create better services and develop well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e399	If Sanner is in charge of the Chair on the left of the President and the Council of State on the right, I think we will have a dialogue that is natural, as the Chairs are set up here. The President also understands that for the Minister of Finance there may be some new issues in the Chamber. It is, after all, all four former finance ministers in the Chamber who have been Minister of Finance since the Council of State was Minister of Finance last time. So some changes have been made. State Council Johnsen is now to be given the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e404	Thank you very much for your guidance on the new system. Then I've learned it for the next time. It was a very important message at the end of the representative Sanner's post where he said they should give priority within the framework. I then assume that the Right in a way is faithful to what is the use of money in the budget. It is an important signal that some of the challenge on the other side of the policy, in the opposition, is the relationship with the Progress Party, which has a slightly different view of the rule of action and the 4-percentiles in terms of the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy. It's an interesting distinction, and so that distinction doesn't go between government and parts of the opposition, but it goes across the so-called bourgeois government option. That's an interesting observation. This is a budget for increased value creation because the use of money in the budget – the signal we are sending out now by approaching the 4-percent limit so quickly – is an important signal to those who are out there prioritizing a tight budget, that Norway prioritises a policy that should not contribute to increasing pressure on the Norwegian interest rate level. It is good for the competitiveness of Norwegian companies, because in the time we have behind us, a significant part of the deterioration in competitiveness is due to the fact that the crown has strengthened. So contributing to low interest rates and a level of interest rates that does not increase in relation to the European level of interest rates is important for policy. It's a research effort. 24 B.C.E. kr will increase the Research Fund by 3 billion. kr, which will allow for further increased investment in research later. We're stepping up environmental technology appropriations by 0.5 billion. kr over three years. There is considerable funding in the research and development of new technologies in the North Region initiative of the government. Then I would also like to point out that when one looks at the development of gross domestic product for Norway, we are on our way back to the level we had before the financial crisis, as opposed to many countries that are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e416	I fully agree that the growth of the economy is important, yes it is, in fact, absolutely crucial to our ability to grant more money for well-being. If we can get the economic growth up to just 0.2 pst, we can fund 2,600 hospitals. It illustrates the importance of that part of economic policy. I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is important to reduce the use of oil money and also to tighten something up in the budget. However, it is not the only part of industrial policy that can contribute to growth and sustainable welfare in Norway. There are not only questions about how much money you spend, but also how they are spent. What is my main criticism of the government is that when you have as liberal a framework as you do in 2011, you should have a much clearer strategy on how to contribute to growth and sustainable well-being. It is about investing more in our teachers, providing a greater boost in continuing education and training. It may be one of the most important things we do in the field of knowledge policy. It is good for the government to increase the funding for the Research Fund, but it only gives more research in 2012. I believe that some of the action space in 2011 should be used for priority research, because that is the very basis for future value creation and job creation in Norway. Then we're told that a red-green government doesn't agree to reduce taxes. But if we're going to make it more profitable to work, if we're going to get more people to invest in Norwegian businesses, in the family-run businesses, in small and medium-sized enterprises across our coast, tax cuts are an important tool to create greater growth in the economy and also to ensure well-being over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e427	The financial crisis has led to the strongest economic downturn in the international economy since World War II. The crisis is created by right-wing policies that have led to speculation and greed in banks and financial institutions through deregulation. The social differences that characterise the world and Europe contribute to the maintenance of systems that enrich a small elite, but others have also become aware of social inequality as a cause of crises. Social equality isn't just fair, it's also good for the whole community. Social equality provides longer life expectancy and better growth, and more people get to use their resources and contribute to the creation of value in society. I would like to stress that by doing so, I mean the creation of value in kindergartens, schools and health care, and in business. In addition, more and more people believe that social equality is also good because it can prevent financial crises. In this context, it is worrying that several countries will further increase the differences between people, through significant cuts in welfare that particularly affect vulnerable groups — and which also affect women in particular. Norway has managed quite well through the financial crisis, with Europe’s lowest unemployment. We have conducted a clear counter-cyclical policy, and has speeded up the economy again, among other things. by granting more to municipalities, instead of investing in tax credits. Norway is a different country, and we should be happy about that. Some believe that it is the oil alone that has made Norway a different country. It's a gross simplification. History is full of examples of countries where wealth and raw materials have become a curse to the population. In Norway, we had forward-looking politicians who early took control of resources in a way that the right-hand side strongly disliked. Fair distribution, professional organisation and state ownership are key. The Norwegian model raises awareness. The Right Party and the Advance Party have still not learned, but want to sell the inheritance silver. They rates of privatisation, cut welfare, more need testing, a less regulated working life and large tax credits to the richest, at the latest now wanted by the representative Jan Tore Sanner. The Progress Party will also liquidate all gender equality policies in the public domain, an irresponsible and unfair policy that will have economic consequences. Women's participation in professional life has had an immeasurably greater impact on the economy than all the oil and gas combined. This revolution did not come about by itself, but is a result of struggle and political decisions and regulations. The OECD has therefore become very interested in Norwegian gender equality policies, including Norwegian leave schemes. It is gratifying that the government will continue to expand the spring quota in the maternity leave. That's good for equality, but it's especially good for kids who will experience that their fathers are more with them from a very small age. Together with the expansion of kindergartens, the maximum price, quality development funds and the continued extension of free core time in kindergartens in areas with many minorities, we will have a boost in children's living conditions, which will also have an impact on the drop-out in Norwegian school. SV is particularly concerned with vulnerable children and young people, and therefore several hundred million are allocated to child protection and to the fight against dropout next year. Exposed children shall be provided with help! A good childhood lasts a lifetime, and children have human rights that we adult duties to care for. I also want to bring forward the drug escalation plan, bets in study places, student housing and justice for disabled students. On the environment side, we are very pleased that we are going to prepare a long-term run for the car charges that ensure that we continue to phase in the more environmentally friendly options, and that we ensure the Community's income in the future. The biodiesel tax now stops at half a charge. Everyone knows SV is happy about that. One hundred million. kr extra until the reward scheme for public transport is great. The same is true of railway, pedestrian and cycle routes and environmental technologies. Finally, a word about assistance. It's not right that we cut poverty in next year's budget. That we're going down from 1.99 pst. of GNI to 1.02 is because the number of asylum seekers is falling sharply. However, we put up two major investments that significantly strengthen the climate profile of the aid budget. I also want to present the women's profile in the aid budget, because this is often forgotten. We double the effort on clean, renewable energy in developing countries. It's important for many reasons, including economic growth. But it is also such that more doors of respiratory and pulmonary diseases caused by indoor pollution than by malaria. This particularly affects women and children, while in particular women and small girls spend time gathering by, at the expense of education. Many also experience abuse in connection with sinking. And we can only imagine what it's like to give birth to children in the dark, without electricity. In addition, 100 of the millions we spend on climate change agriculture and food security are earmarked for women. So equality goes through this budget like a red thread. The right-wing and the Progressive Party will in future have to fight for equality policy, and we are looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e453	The financial crisis of which the world is now experiencing the consequences was triggered by a long-standing international speculative economy, without a basis in the real economy. The international institutions, with the International Monetary Fund at the head, stood for a free-flow ideology that the seas recognized posed a risk of instability – it would go wrong. The fund leader, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, said in a speech in the government quarter last autumn that the social turmoil of the financial crisis would be the biggest challenge in the years to come, and drew a dramatic comparison with the history of European inter-war. Today we see it marching in the streets of the European Union in southern Europe. The economic union, without an associated political union in the EU, shows its major systemic flaws. Fair sharing of the burden of mitigation is a key word in addressing the consequences of the financial crisis in a decent way. Red-green parties have a long tradition of being most concerned with economic and social justice between people. Green parties have the highest trustworthiness in the long-term management responsibility that is increasingly recognised as essential for resolving the international climate and food crisis. The financial crisis has not brought about any significant change in the thinking in tone-setting economic circles. The impact in Norway is mild compared with other countries. This makes the popular pressure for a changed and healthier real economic thinking less. Strong forces therefore benefit from an increasingly comprehensive financial sector. Therefore, when the Financial Crisis Committee delivers its position at the end of the year, it is hoped that the vote will show at least two ways ahead, so that we can have a thorough economic future debate among the majority of people. It is added to a sober state budget, but a budget that provides opportunities. Whatever the outcome of the economic downturn in many countries, this will result in a more demanding competitive situation for Norwegian employment and business. It must be strongly underlined. The government therefore needs to strengthen the security of Norwegian pay and working conditions for the many employees in low-employment occupations, in the same way that maritime workers have to be given income opportunities that make it more attractive to take on a higher level of responsibility for employment than the employee. The central party is pleased that the evaluation of the tax reform will look into whether the tax rules implement this in the case of maritime traders versus limited liability companies. Similarly, a view shall be taken of differences in social rights between maritime operators and employees. An improvement for seafarers is essential for this to be a good and safe form of company for the many small traders. Modernisation of the business life of mainland Norway, with a targeted research and industrial policy that provides a strong commitment to ecologically sound production and new technologies for the processing of our huge renewable natural resources, is essential for meeting increased international competition. This industrial policy shall provide products and services of high value, thereby ensuring basic income for our welfare society. These jobs related to renewable natural resources are more important than many others. It is therefore gratifying that the grant of investment aid for eco-innovation and innovation in Norway almost doubles to nearly 300 million. kr. This thinking needs to be further developed in all areas in order to ensure long value chains in the processing of our huge renewable natural resources. Better communication is essential to reduce distance costs in a far-reaching country. The budget provides a strong priority for upgrading and maintenance of roads and roads. This is important for road safety, racial protection and management of the enormous values that have been lost in roads and roads. The center party uses a lot of power to secure this all over the country. We're very happy about that. Living communities provide the best basis for good integration, preventive health work and transparent unbureaucratic welfare services. An increased frame of 5.7 billion. kr, together with a systematic improvement in the production of services, with increased confidence in the many in the first-line service, in school, in health care and in the technical sector, provide good opportunities for improvement in people's everyday lives. It is important that the budget facilitates more practical work and education in higher education. This will increase the sea urchin and its dignity for the many. The centre party is pleased with this change in course. The commitment of cultural promise to voluntary teams and the spirit of virtue of associations is absolutely fundamental to the development of a welfare society, which is something far more than the services of public employees. The government provides for predictable, modified framework conditions relating to purchase taxes, annual and vehicle fuel charges. It's important that people know the goals ahead when they buy new cars, so that someone buys fuel-rich cars. It'll pay off. It is a step forward that biodiesel is becoming cheaper than foreseen in the last year's budget. The budget's biggest tax reform is taxation of pensioners. Retirement workers will be encouraged more strongly to work alongside the pension. The reform is based on taxes by capacity and provides a total tax relief of more than 1.3 billion. kr. Pensioners with income up to NOK 530000 when they retire will receive lower income taxes. It is a favourable reform for these.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e481	Then the next speaker is the representative Hans Olav Syversen, who shall otherwise keep the post number «bunny».
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e484	I don't know how successful it would have been if I were to try to repeat the dialect of the finance minister! I want to quote from yesterday's leader in the evening post. That's what it says. ‘A finance minister who does his job has to expect complaints from almost all teams.’ I don't know if it's for the Council of State or the opposition. But we can well establish that the opposition – in part at least – has been involved in fulfilling what I am now reading. But before I go to the grievances, I was going to give praise, and it goes of course that there is a responsible budget that has been submitted. Who would have thought that we should return so quickly to an oil money use at the level that the government is now proposing, and which I can also say from the Christian People's Party will be a level below which we will support in all main? In Political Quarter, the Minister of Finance said that he mostly wrote the first and last of the financial statements himself, so I listened very carefully to the first and last part. The word that I think was used most times was the ‘generational contract’. I know that the Minister of Finance has put a lot of emphasis on that. And if you're going to look at the generational contract, at least in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it doesn't just have to be a question of how much money you spend -- we spend a tremendous amount of oil money, over 100 billion dollars. kr in next year's budget – but about how we use them. I might want to challenge the Minister of Finance a little bit: does he think that the mechanism of what we spend on such capital as oil money is balanced? Or should we spend more, to make sure that when that time comes when we don't have all these oil money, they're invested in what creates something for the future – whether it's in school, for research, for education, for infrastructure? There I wish the Minister of Finance could elaborate on what he thinks a budget should look like ideally. On the environment side, we now realize that the biodiesel tax is essentially a bit withdrawn. I guess that shows that what happened last year was a stomachache. And we like that right. Something needs to be done in the environmental field – it confirms the temperature in Bergen at 20 degrees tonight – and it tells us something about the enormous challenges we face. I also have to ask, what happens to Mongstad? Is the project more or less detailed? We would like there to be more offensive and targeted measures against poverty in the budget. There is something about alcohol, and I want to link it to yesterday's debate on volunteering. Yes, there is a little increase in the drug sector, but the point is again: how do we spend the money? Are we using the money to equip healthcare companies with powers to destroy the good offers that we actually have and that voluntary sector stands for? My claim is that even with this budget, several thousand addicts will remain in line in 2011, because they do not want to look at the structure of care for those who really need it. What does it help to get a place three months ahead, when the motivation is today? This applies to the care of the elderly. We are pleased that the guarantee of dignity is followed up with words, but it must also be followed up with action. After all, it's very good, but it's actually now so that several of those who are in hospital, can't even decide if they can take a bath, or if they get out in fresh air. Should the guarantee of dignity mean something, action and crown must also be put behind the words. Then I can't let myself say it's a sad day when we see that the government cuts in aid to Africa by 200 million. kr, and that there is a real decline in the long-term assistance provided by non-governmental organisations. It should not be reported to the Stortinget with respect to a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e513	It is clear that it is also part of the job as Minister of Finance to get both roses and rice. If you're not aware of it when you're dealing with a problem like this, you might have to do something else. But it's part of the job, and it's part of the job that I appreciate so much, because a living debate is important. I would like to thank the representative Syversen for a balanced comment on the budget, which in a way also shows that there is quite a broad consensus in the Stortinge on the more fundamental issues of economic policy – keeping order in the economy, dealing with the rules of action and in many ways dealing with what Stortinget discussed on 6 June 1974, i.e. the long lines of Norwegian oil policy. That's good, because one of the strengths of the Norwegian model is that one agrees on the main features of important economic policy. In the case of environmental taxes, three things are important. One is that it is necessary to have a broad discussion that can anchor future environmental taxes and fuel taxes in principle. That's an important part of the discussion. It is necessary to create greater predictability of the evolution of charges, in the sense that the system needs to become more predictable. Then there are two other important things that fuel taxes should also take care of. One is that it has to change the environmental behaviour, that we have, for example, use more environmentally friendly cars, while at the same time ensuring revenue for the community. We have in the budget a fairly broad review of the more fundamental aspects, and then we will come back to the Stortinget with a more detailed discussion. In the case of Mongstad, there are three things that are important. Statoil has provided us with new information on the potential health hazard with the technology that has so far been. Now we're going to go through it. The project is not misguided, Stortinget will be given a broad orientation on the situation during the year, so that there can be a good and broad discussion in Stortinget on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e524	I am aware that it is a majority government, but if the Minister of Finance wants to listen to the response, I am pleased. Then I can really go over what is the continuation of this debate. That's the question: shall we stand here for two months and write comments and deliver alternative budgets, when we know the phase in advance? I know the finance minister is happy in poetry, and I wasn't so surprised that it was Hans Børli he came with, so now I'm going to confront another poem -- a little bit of it -- not by Hans Børli, but by Karin Boye. It is called ‘I am moving’: «The saturated day, it is never the greatest. The best day is a day of thirst." And that's my challenge to the majority here in this Chamber: Are you satisfied now that you have presented this budget? Or are you willing to participate in what I would call an important democratic process? In the next week, perhaps 40–50 hearing bodies will come to the Storting to present their views on the budget. With all due respect for bureaucracy and the government: there may be things in the budget that don't seem quite as if it would have any consequences that you hadn't thought of, and that there might be reason to adjust the rate. We in the Christian People's Party are interested in adjusting the course where necessary. We're interested in helping to get a budget that has a better social balance, whether it's to help those who have poverty problems here at home, or out, those who need child protection services, or those who are struggling with their drug addiction. I want to challenge the majority and the government to give you some powers this time, so that we can make sure that there is a real process that can benefit the whole country, before we club the budget closer to Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e544	There will be an opportunity for the Council of State to comment on this in its final statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e547	First of all, let me begin by congratulating the Minister of Finance, first of all on the 60th anniversary, which was on Friday, but also by presenting a budget today which means that we are approaching the rule of action much faster than there was reason to assume just one year ago. We believe that in the Left is good and that it is important. Although the Minister of Finance has been helped by a number of developments in the economy, there is probably no doubt that the Minister of Finance has had to hold back from parties and expert councils who have wanted to spend more, and to some extent much more, money. The submitted budget that we have had an hour to study is, of course, no disaster for the country. It's a little boring and trusty. These are elements that are obviously positive, such as: a significant investment on rail, increased investment in the reward scheme for public transport and individual elements in the fight against drop-outs from secondary schools. But there are few or no positive new surprises, and there is no clear course. Yesterday's solutions are rarely suitable to solve tomorrow's challenges. This is the government's biggest problem, which is also so clearly presented in the Minister of Finance just presented. It is confident, it is lubricated thinly and few – if any – real priorities are made. Unfortunately, the government has chosen the path of least resistance in terms of its position. Or to show another picture: the Minister of Finance has both hands on the steering wheel, but the problem is that there are three heavy clamps – LO, SV and the Center Party – on the brake. In addition, the government car has automatic transmissions. That's how it gets quickly stopped by. Unfortunately, the government shows little willingness and ability to address the major challenges. We need a radical new policy for a modern low-carbon society. We need a liberal knowledge society and a reform of a warmer welfare society. In these areas, the government is at best taking small steps in the right direction. Follow-up to Climate Change 2020 is e.g. reasonable absence. The previously promised elimination of poverty in Norway, which is important and necessary, is now reduced to some minimal, scattered measures. It's sad for the weak in society, those who need our attention the most. We're failing the poorest in our country. There is no good contract with the future children. A third example is the lack of willingness to bet on more and motivated teachers, as we need, among other things. to follow up on the government's increased hours. I had hoped that we would finally get a budget that gave us what most people now agree with the Left, a powerful tax shift from red to green taxes. I have registered that the head of the Finance Committee has raised this issue several times, but the impact of the government is obviously not so extensive. The time for such a conversion is then until those degrees right now. Instead, the government continues the fiscal policy they have pursued in the last five years. A total change in environmental, energy and fuel taxes of approximately 130 million. kr, or approx. 4 per million of the total environmental and fuel taxes, are with respect to reporting embarrassingly weak. Once I'm in the tax field, the proposal to impose VAT on electronic books and films purchased abroad is directly customs dutyed. The 2011 government budget proposal also implies a total absence of targeted policies to provide the many new knowledge companies we need in the future. The UH sector has in fact become permanent. The answer from the government to the many who wonder if they should dare to bet for themselves as entrepreneurs is unfortunately a crying no. There are no concrete proposals to facilitate the start-up or operation of small businesses. The left will also create its alternative budget on this occasion, which points out a much more ambitious and offensive course for the future. We will prioritise a more targeted effort to address climate challenges, a completely different focus on education, research, innovation and the organisation of many new small and green knowledge businesses, and not least a targeted effort for a warmer welfare society. We will do that within the same economic framework as the government proposes. But it's also about what vision we have for society. The left represents an alternative vision. If Norway is to grow, citizens must grow. People need to make more independent decisions, take more responsibility and rule more of their lives. This vision will guide the budget that the Left will make for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e577	The day after tomorrow, October 7, it's a 75th anniversary that we should be more aware of than my 60th birthday, to say it like that. It is the 75th anniversary of the main agreement between LO and NAF, the very basic law of the labour market. It is my opinion that when the history of Norway and the Norwegian model is written, the cooperation that has been between us as workers and employers and the authorities will be an important part of the history of the design of the Norwegian welfare society. The fact that you have strong, responsible trade unions that can make a good income statement is good for Norway. The income statement this year, where wage growth is about 31⁄4 p.m., is an important basis for strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. It's important. Then it is that there are three parties in a government, citizens for good discussion – fresh discussions – and it is enriching the overall political project. When you look at the budget that we are presenting today, it has a very good and assembled red-green profile in several areas. Let me link some comments to the field of education, which many people have been involved in. We're strengthening the budget. The level of improvement in the performance of higher education is nearly half a billion dollars. That bet is strengthened by 175 million. kr through the 2011 budget. This provides room for further training of primary teachers, i.e. in high school, and better vocational correction for pupils. Why is this so important? Yes, because each other who attends vocational education in secondary school does not complete the education. Three out of ten in general do not complete the education. Getting these through in a good way is a strength for future value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e588	I thank the Minister for the answer. I fully agree with former Minister of Finance Per Kleppe, who wrote in Today’s Business on Saturday that ‘in order to be faithful to the goals we must be infidel against the funds’. I discovered yesterday that it was repeated several times by representatives from the government parties in the throne debate. What's surprising is that it's not at all consistent with the government's actual policy. Yesterday's instruments are so suspended that important goals go further and further away. All the will for innovation is met with a scare image of a political right-hand side that does not exist, or a caricer picture of what the previous government actually did. We've seen several long-term warnings on what's coming this summer. Both the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, Raymond Johansen, and SV's parliamentary leader, Bård Vegar Solhjell, state that the wave of the future can only be financed through increased taxes. Point! The challenges related to the financing of the ageing wave are old-fashioned, but instead of addressing the challenges through targeted investment in new jobs, new eco-friendly business, increased quality of education and research, among others. the willingness to do some structural grips, for example. in the case of the municipal structure, government and government parties swear to old solutions and theories. It's obvious that we need to use the public money more carefully, so that we get more well-being for each of these heads. It is a great potential that the government unfortunately does not show any willingness to address, with a view to modernising and streamlining the public sector. Unfortunately, we have not found any examples in the submitted budget where the government thinks new, and where measures are proposed to modernise and streamline the public sector, and where everyday life is made simpler for citizens and businesses – rather on the contrary. That's too bad! The government will leave the opportunity to do so. I should like to hear the Minister of Finance's comment on how the government thinks about precisely modernising and streamlining the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e602	So there's one post left, and that's the Council's summary statement, with a speaking time limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e605	Thank you so much for that opportunity. Let me just end by adding a few comments to this discussion and stressing a matter that is important for the budget that we are now presenting for 2011. Through this budget and through the political work before this budget was presented, we have created ourselves more room for action in economic policy. This is because we have regained the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. The growth next year is going to be 3.1 pst, according to our calculations. That's 0.5 pst. above the so-called trend growth in the economy, which is about 2.6 pst. We've had our sick leave. It's going down. This means that we're getting ourselves some space for action in the economy. The number of asylum seekers is falling, which also creates more room for action in the economy. It is important to stress that this is not something that has come out of loose air, but it is a result of policy, and that is a result of policy functioning and policy functioning. That's why we've now had more room for action in the budget than what we saw a few months ago. One of the most important things we can do in the future – there are many things – is to transform and develop the labour force, because the labour force is 80 pst. of national wealth. Increasing the return on labour — to use that expression — by a few tenths over time means enormous amounts that can be used for increased well-being and increased opportunities for Norway. That's why we're betting more strongly at school, as I also said in my previous post. That's why we're now betting on increasing the number of places at universities and colleges. That is why there are 71,200 action posts in the budget. 19 000 of them are targeted at those who are totally unemployed, the rest at those who need to upgrade knowledge, in order to improve their chances of returning to work. We are strengthening the qualification programme. That's right, and that gives cause for concern, that there are as many people on a temporary basis out of work. Therefore, it is important that sick leave goes down. One aspect that we see that gives cause for concern is that the proportion of young people is increasing most. That is why the GIVO project, i.e. implementation in Higher Education, is so incredibly important for it as well. So I just want to say finally that we're going to acknowledge our strong situation in order to move on. We're going to assume that politics works. It creates room for action in politics. And then, of course, it's important for the opposition to play a role. To give an example: the fundamental review we are about to have of the fuel charges is an example of the opposition's voice being heard, and we want to hear the opposition's voice in the job we are about to do to anchor fuel charges in a good way. That's one example. There are more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e620	So the debate is on case No. 1 over. The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's presentation of the Government's proposals for the State Budget and the National Budget for 2011 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-05.ana.ud1044e661	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
