ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e26	The representative of Tor Bremer, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Knut Petter Torgersen, has taken the seat. The Workers’ Group has requested the permission of the representative of Ingrid Hegø to take part in the United Nations Conference on Gender Equality in New York from 1 December to 3 December and from 4 December to 10 December to take part in the 16th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, the sixth meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, in Cancún, Mexico. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Sonja Edvardsen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative of Ingrid Heggø's leave because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Anette Stegejørdet Norberg, are proposed to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e61	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e64	On behalf of the representatives Bent Höie, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Henning Warloe, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I am delighted to propose a long-term strategy for biomedicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e69	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e72	I have great pleasure in promoting a proposal from the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Hans Olav Syversen and myself on measures for increased security in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e77	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e80	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Knut Arild Hareide, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to make the "Leie voor seigen" scheme into a national scheme to ensure that the potential of the housing market is difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e97	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Sigbjørn Johnsen and Erik Solheim will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. No one has stood up for that. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e106	I want to put questions to the Minister of Finance. Repeatedly in the last few years of the winter, people have experienced that electricity prices are shooting in the weather. The cold helps people get high unforeseen costs due to high power prices. Now we're in this situation again. For many, and especially for low income groups and small children's families, high electricity prices are perceived as economically tough. Many households today depend entirely on electricity for heating and are therefore particularly vulnerable to an ever higher price level. When this situation occurs, we experience that many representatives of the government say that action should now be taken; the situation for most people should be eased. But what happens? Nothing! Clearly, this is going to go over – that is, to the extent – and people are going to forget the government’s promise to take action. There are many measures the government can take and the majority can take if you have political will. Development of power generation and deployment and start-up of mobile gas power plants are some measures. But there is also a reduction in the electricity charge. When the electricity price rises sharply, the public makes a lot of money. So while the public is getting richer, most people will feel that a greater share of their income is going to meet a basic need, which is actually the need for electricity. The government parties rejected a proposal from the Progress Party not later than Thursday in this room to reduce the electricity charge, which was part of our tax and tax arrangements. But since the situation at high electricity prices is becoming increasingly precarious, my question to the Minister of Finance is: Is the government willing to look at a reduction in the electricity charge in order for Norwegian households to have lower electricity costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e119	First, I would like to say that I have a very strong understanding of the question raised by the representative. High electricity prices and high electricity consumption due to the cold period in which we are now living will be a burden for many households with a pressurised economy. The question of reducing the electricity charge is one that Stortinget has discussed on various occasions, as the representative said, at the latest in connection with the financial debate last week. The situation is that reducing the tax on energy can in turn increase consumption and thus help to push the market price further up. Therefore, for a period like the one we now experience, with little water in the warehouses and a lack of power, a reduction in electricity charges cannot actually lead to a corresponding lower price for consumers. Rather, scarcity of power with lower charges will help to push producer prices up. This means that power consumers who pay a very low or no charge on electricity can get even higher electricity prices as a result of the reduced charges. So I do not think the proposal to remove or reduce the electricity charge is a good proposal. But one might think of more targeted measures. For example, I would like to point out that in the context of the power crisis in the winter 2002–03, the housing aid scheme was used as a more targeted response to those who had problems with high electricity bills and who had low incomes. It is an evaluable measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e128	The House's support was fully in agreement with the Progress Party, but it was also a proposal that we made during the discussion of the state budget on Thursday, which was voted down by the government parties. But I am pleased that the Minister of Finance says that it is actually going to look at this by using the housing support scheme in a targeted manner. We note that in the margin. With regard to the electricity charge, it is clear that when the cold has now spread across the country and many parts of this country experience sky-high electricity prices, too many will make up a large proportion of the costs to be paid, and most do not drive and turn on the panel ovens for fun. I interpret the answer so that there is no willingness from the government to do anything about the electricity charge, which too many people would be noticeable if you reduced it immediately. One could also have created a type of authority for the government, as the Progress Party has previously proposed – that something could be done in the future with the electricity tax, when you saw what the situation was like. And if it was in deficit, people wouldn't use a lot of power based on a possible lower price.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e137	I believe that in the situation we are now seeing, targeted action against those groups and people who need it is more sensible and better than making general reductions in, for example. the electricity charge. It is true, as I said instead, that the market forces are coming in – which I expect the representative of Leirstein to have a great sense of. The lower charge and thus the lower price can actually increase the pressure on the power prices in a situation where there is a shortage of electricity and low magazine filling. Otherwise, I agree with the representative, Leirstein, that what can help solve this over time is to make investments in the network, to increase production and energy efficiency. And actually, each of us can also contribute through our daily dont, so to speak, to reduce power consumption. There are many who can contribute here, but in the long term, investing in power supply and energy efficiency is the best measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e144	There are three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e147	The answer from the Minister of Finance makes it natural to follow up with the Minister of Environmental Protection. One might imagine a lot of measures, says the Minister of Finance, but the government can actually put in place a lot of measures. They don't just have to think about them. We can use our energy resources. More power generation provides better balance and reduces the uncertainty of energy supply in winter. So with regard to the use of gas power plants, the government has spent 2.5 billion. NOK to purchase mobile gas power plants that it will not use. Instead, it could use 2.5 billion. to ensure that full scale gas power plants were built which permanently improved energy supply, better use of energy and use of Norwegian gas in Norway. At Mongstad, the government has postponed the CO2 cleaning until 2018, but it still requires gas plants to be built in central Norway with cleaning from day one. That policy is not linked. Will the Council of State change policy and ensure that gas power plants are either built without cleaning from day one, or that the State takes responsibility for the implementation of the cleaning technology similar to that of Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e161	The background to this policy is that Norway has a major problem with CO2 emissions. In the so-called reference path for what Norway has promised internationally in relation to the Copenhagen agreement by 2020, a reduction of 1 million has been introduced. tonnes on Mongstad and an equivalent reduction of 1 million. tonnes on Kårstø. So if you were to expand other gas power plants and not expand something on Mongstad, it would increase emissions in total in Norway very significantly compared to what we have internationally promised to do. Of course, this is not a current policy. The government welcomes a gas power plant with cleaning in Elnesvågen. We will not increase Norwegian CO2 emissions. If we can do that, we will also develop new technology. It's positive, but there can't be any substitute for gas power plant cleaning at Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e174	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e177	Then we're back to the Minister of Finance. There was a good news in the Minister of Finance's answer to the questions of the Progress Party, and this is about housing support. Because it is correct that the Right made proposals to increase the housing support as an instrument if electricity prices become extra high in winter. That proposal was supported by all the other civil parties, but the red-green parties – the government parties – voted down the proposal less than a week ago. I ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that not only will you look at and assess the housing support, but you will actually increase the housing support for those who need it the most, if the electricity prices get high in winter. Housing aid is the most targeted measure that can be taken to help those who need it the most if electricity prices become too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e185	I showed in my reply to the representative, Leirstein, what happened in the winter of 2002–2003, when the housing beneficiaries received an exceptional payment as a result of high costs of heating. And as I said instead – now a cold pre-Christmas winter has already started – the housing support could also be used this time if the case is that many people have problems with the electricity billing. We will also consider other types of measures to ensure that any support is given to those who need it the most. I agree with Mr Sanner that the best thing in this situation is targeted support over general measures, which may have other effects than helping those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e190	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e193	I want to follow up on the same track, but my follow-up question goes to the municipal minister, who has a lot of responsibility for housing policy and housing support. I would refer to the remark made by an overall opposition in the financial position, and also to the proposal we made in the financial debate: ‘The government is asking for careful monitoring of the evolution of the electricity price and, if an abnormal situation arises again on the electricity market, the government is asked to consider using housing aid to remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged.’ Now the Minister of Finance has given an opening for it. I wonder if the municipal minister also agrees that this is a good tool, and that if an abnormal situation occurs during this winter, it will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e205	Yes, I can confirm that the support will be assessed if we have a long-term situation with cold, and it is not least important that we have targeted support. Using the electricity charge, which has been suggested earlier today, is not a targeted scheme. I believe the representative agrees with me that going the way to channel any funds to those who need it the most is important – and that one might also get it in time. The last time this was used, a paid 700 kroner was paid in August of the same year – after the summer. I hope that this time, as opposed to 2003, we can have a readiness to do so that, if necessary – and that will allow us to assess as time passes in the winter – a few payments can be made before, to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e210	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e213	In the 2011 government budget, the government estimates that the cost of full-scale cleaning in Mongstad will be between 20 and 25 billion. kr. The project has already been postponed until 2018, but the government announced that the project could be further postponed. The construction of the technology centre in Mongstad, where costs have increased from below the billion to 6.5 billion. kr in a few years, shows how expensive it is to build inside an oil refinery in operation. According to SINTEF, Mongstad is probably the most expensive place in the world to build a full-scale sewage treatment plant. At the same time, capture and storage technology suppliers claim that full scale cleaning can be realised as early as 2014 at a fraction of the price if the plant is built elsewhere than in Mongstad. Technologically, the world's first full-scale sewage treatment plant will be groundbreaking whether it is built on Mongstad or elsewhere, whether it is retrofitted or integrated into a new plant. The important thing for Norway and the world is that a plant for catching and storing is quickly realized and at a price that makes technology applicable to more than the world's richest countries. If we succeed with the moon landing and the technology center in Mongstad, it will probably be cheaper and easier to land full scale in Mongstad later. That ambition must be established. However, the questions to the Council of State are: Does the Council of State Erik Solheim agree that the landing of the moon is of greater value to Norway and the world if it is realized early and reasonably, rather than late and expensive? And is the government willing to contribute to the realization of a new gas power plant with clean-up that can be clear as soon as possible? I would remind you of the statements made by the Council of State to the representative of Solvik-Olsen just now, that he wishes to welcome a gas power plant in Elneswagen. The question is whether he is willing to contribute to it. When the government is willing to spend 25 billion. kr to realise full scale cleaning in 2020, is he willing to spend a few billion dollars to realise cleaning in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e222	There are very important issues that Astrup addresses. I agree, of course, to the point that cheap cleaning is better early than animal cleaning late. Now I think, unfortunately, that the matter has considerably more shades. Nothing would be better than that cleaning of gas power stations was as simple as what we often hear in the public debate. We just have to admit that the government in 2006 – when we went into this – probably also thought it would be much simpler than it turned out to be, because technology development is much harder and more expensive. The public debate contains a lot of claims that in that and that country – the United States and in Europe – this is right around the corner and comes immediately, and every time we go into these claims, unfortunately, when you try to get hold of it and grab it by hand, it slips out. But I want to welcome all of this. The faster it happens, the better it is. Which country it happens in is not the most important either. Once we've chosen to bet on Mongstad, it's mainly for one reason, namely, that irritating emissions is much more important than building a new work of cleaning. The reason for this is that the vast majority of installations that will generate greenhouse gas emissions in the years to come in the world are already built. We're going to walk quite many years ahead of time before it's the new works that will dominate the world. Until 2020 and later, the majority of coal-fired power stations and other works have already been built. That's why after-cleaning is so important. Then it has proved to be coming up with new issues, which it almost always does in the development of large industrial projects. The health hazard of amines has emerged, and of course we have to take this very seriously. We can't do anything that could lead to the least risk in addition to the acceptable for the people of Hordaland. That's why we're now going through the amine situation and we're going to present this to the Storting in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e231	I record that the Council of State was not really willing to answer the question of whether he would contribute to the realization of a full-scale clean-up facility. He even mentioned Elneswagen as a possible alternative, but it requires the state to submit a tender. If the Council of State is concerned that technology suppliers are unable to deliver, it is possible to issue a tender with no cure, no pay, which limits taxpayers’ liability, in contrast to what has been done in Mongstad. Does not the Council also agree that it will increase the chances of achieving Mongstad faster and cheaper – if you actually manage to realize a full-scale facility elsewhere than in Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e236	Now the Minister of Oil and Energy will come back to Stortinget with all these issues in the near future. But our experience so far has been that developing the project at Mongstad itself is very difficult, and starting alternative projects will hardly get the pace up. But we're going to go through all these issues. We have to see in our eyes that Norway is not alone in developing this technology. This is done in a competitive situation with other countries, and by taking in experience from other countries. In Mongstad, for example, Shell and South African Sasol inside, and we want more warm welcome in because it will strengthen the project. So we're in an international competitive and technology-exchange situation that makes it possible for us to move faster into goals somewhere in the world. At the moment, Mongstad is not the least advanced, but probably the most advanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e243	Four follow-up questions are raised – first from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e246	The councils know Middle Norway very well and probably have a lot of understanding that the thugs and thugs have now reached the limit of what they can withstand from power crises. SV's environmental policy spokesman said yesterday to the Address Paper that SV now wants to build gas power plants with CO2 cleaning in Elnesvågen, where the government will take the bill. And it's interesting that the leading gas-fired party on Stortinget is now going in the front to build gas power plants. Can the Council confirm Serigstad Valen's statements to the Address Paper yesterday? And can the Council of State now confirm that the government has turned around and will open up gas power plants in Elneswagen and that the state covers the CO2 management?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e260	Now perhaps Serigstad Valen is in the hall and can answer for himself – I do not see him on the move – but I am not aware that he has stated the fundamental point that the state will take the bill. That's a very fundamental point, because we can't be in a situation where you always send the bill to the state. Should the government take the bill within current budgets, it necessarily means less to health, to care for the elderly, to school, to kindergartens and to others. In this room there is only one party that can print money without taking responsibility for the whole of the economy. Right isn't among them. So the state can't just take bills. Of course, if you think you should reduce Mongstad and build in Elnesvågen instead, this is another problem. Then it is not so certain that this will be a very, new cost cut, then you don't print money, to say it that way, but then it also happens that you can't develop technology for existing plants. It is also clear that there will be an addition to the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, because a new gas power plant with cleaning is a zero-sum game, if you still get emissions on Mongstad and Kårstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e269	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e272	Unfortunately, we see here who is the clog in the system in relation to the power situation in Middle Norway, and which makes this government have been heading for a power crisis for five and a half years. I'm sorry. The Council of State has itself stood here now and problematized the technology of CO2 clean-up, yet the Council of State chooses to uphold the requirement of CO2 clean-up from day one. No other country imposes such requirements. Yesterday in Political Quarter, the Prime Minister stressed that there is no relevance to emissions, for total emissions in Europe to be regulated by the quota system. If more CO2 emissions occur in Central Norway, it does not increase European emissions. So in relation to the CO2 debate, the Council of State should not be concerned. So we know that there are investors who want to build gas power plants in Middle Norway. It's desirable because of the force situation. There are investors who will risk cleaning the gas power plant, but there must be a carrot for them to do so. Because today they can take risks, but there's no income potential anyway. Will the government ensure that there is an income potential by the government purchasing the CO2 that is being cleaned?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e298	Now, as Minister for the Environment, I am responsible for following up the Storting decision. The size — this room — has decided that Norway should have an ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15-17 million. tonnes in 2020, based on 1990 levels. The party of progress is outside it. What the Progress Party thinks, no one knows, because it depends on who comes to the Chair at all times. There are different policies every time. I can't rely on the Advance Party, I have to rely on the bulk of the population. So we're going to reduce by 15 to 17 million. tonnes. When there is an ever-increasing demand for things that will make the situation even more difficult by 2020, we cannot simply address those requirements. What is positive, on the other hand, is that Enova, Trondheim Municipality, Süd-Trøndelag and other counties have launched measures to increase energy efficiency. And Norway has not done enough to improve energy efficiency. There is a significant potential for improving the electricity situation, both in central Norway and in Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e305	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e308	In the interview book ‘Climate paradox’, the Prime Minister said: ‘I do not believe the world and the climate see any difference between the carbons coming from the gas power plant at Kårstø and those coming from Melkøya.’ I guess that's a pretty good description of reality. Yet the government adds up to different regimes. Because the government is subsidising emissions in Mongstad and Kårstø by half a billion kroner compared to Snow White, because Snow White pays a high rate of CO2 tax, while Kårstø and Mongstad pay a low rate of CO2 tax. It's going to be half a billion dollars. The Council of State was earlier aware that it could not be such that the State takes the bill. But what about the polluter-pays principle in this case, when it comes to subsidising emissions relative to taking in emissions, and treating emissions equally, whether it is on Kårstø, Mongstad or Snow White?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e326	I'm not quite sure I understand the question. But I see it as a very different input from what Ketil Solvik-Olsen had. Of course, it's true that for the world as a whole, it doesn't matter whether all the carbons emitted are released in Hammerfest or in Rogaland, or for that part in South Africa or China. However, Norway has a separate obligation that we have notified internationally, that we should reduce by 15-17 million tonnes. Other countries have similar obligations. This type of commitment is based on the fact that it is impossible to achieve an international climate regime without a country taking control of what they have: their own emissions. And within that framework, we're going to present a big message on how we're going to achieve these goals next harvest. Then, of course, we will come back to all these questions that have been asked here, but we have so far chosen to focus on carbon capture and storage in Mongstad, because it is the most advanced project and where it is easiest to believe that we get to new technologies that Norway and the world will need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e331	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e334	I thought I'd get into exactly what the last council said. SV has had a very high profile in the gas power case – both Kårstø and Mongstad were to be cleaned from day one. When the Soria Moria declaration was presented, the party leader said: Now the gas power struggle is over. At the same time, we now see that Kårstø is polluting. We know that the cleaning plans are clear, we know that it's cheaper than Mongstad, and we know that it actually gets cleaned more than in Mongstad. It's important to realize Mongstad, so does the Left. But the solar system is made up of many moons. So the question of the left is, why do you have to land in Mongstad first? Why can't you prioritize Kårstø in the queue and turn Kårstø into that moon landing first, so you had managed to clean up more for less money? And the technology is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e341	I record very conflicting views from the opposition: The left believes that it is easier to get it on Kårstø, and the Right and Advance Party, as I see it, believe that we should scrape it both on Kårstø and on Mongstad – at least put it on hold and do it in Elnesvågen or on a new work. At least that's how I see it, but a debate in Stortinget will clarify the positions of the different ones, so that we can make it clear. Our perception is that it's most likely that we're reaching the fastest point where we're already doing well. So in Mongstad, there's now a test center under construction. A lot is about to happen, and it's more likely that we'll get it there quickly than by jumping to something completely new. Let me just add that technology development has proved much more difficult than we thought – to be honest: much harder than anyone thought. And it has only confirmed the old word that once was a Progress Party slogan – from which they have run, namely: Technology and the future cannot be adopted, it must be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e348	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e352	Our main question goes to the Minister of State. We see a strong tendency towards centralisation in society. The currents approach the major centres and the city centres. This is despite the beautiful words of the Minister of the Municipal Council of the Central Party to strengthen the districts. It may seem that this is a development this government is unable to change. To counteract these forces, political governance is required, whether it is about strengthening the welfare offer where people live locally or about enabling municipalities throughout the country to meet their needs. We now look at several fields that the government is yielding for the forces that want to collect everything in large units in central strokes. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, Take local hospitals: Despite the fact that Soria Moria II states that today’s decentralised hospital services are to be maintained – among others. be involved in ensuring closeness to emergency services and food supply — and despite strong local involvement and protests, Health West is currently discussing whether to reduce the supply of food in Nordfjordeid. So you sit in a closed room and make important decisions that are completely out of political control. Does the Council share the concern of the Christian People's Party for increased centralisation and for important decisions regarding the possibility of having viable districts and good health services to be taken by bureaucrats and not by politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e361	There is no doubt that there are major demands on the Centre Party when it comes to developing the whole country and using the whole country. I'm glad. I'm glad that the party is troubling in an area where thousands of people depend every day on us having a policy that takes care of their tarts. That's exactly why it's important that we have a red-green government that sees the whole country. It's no secret that the Center Party saw great question marks in the reform that was made, attached to hospitals. We see great question marks about the democratic content of the enterprise model, we see great question marks as to whether he is well enough capable of preserving the individual's heart. There's a number in Stortinget that said that someone wants to have a business model. We've also accepted him as a basis for government. However, we have set out in the model – including in what is now on the horizon – that changes can take place in the model that will take place better than today than the democratic aspect, and so too better will be the regional policy aspect that we see that no government is not taking it seriously enough. So the board makes its decisions. It is the company meeting that has to assess whether those decisions are in line with the Soria Moria Declaration – whether they are in line with government policy. It must be assessed by the Minister of Health after the undertaking has taken its decision. I am absolutely sure that it will do so when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e368	The Christian People's Party and the Central Party have a basic political stance that is about making decisions at the lowest possible level. We're dividing this. Most decisions have to be made where people live. Now, the Minister also sees the torches that arise when important local institutions are either ribbed or laid down – she sees the local politician's commitment to preserve, for example, the environment. the safety of a food supply. But is this exposure totally of little use? Have we completely abdicated for the bureaucrats? Should this not be under political control?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e375	The decisions taken by the health care establishment shall be in line with the government's overriding policy. Therefore, it is important that the business meeting now, as in the past, should consider just that. Of course, the birth plans, the maternity plans, which are now coming in from all over the country to the Minister for Health, should also be assessed in that light. Political commitment is never of any use. The central party’s commitment to the district, to the local hospital, to the municipalities – that there should be equivalent welfare provision throughout the country – is no less than before. It is a strong commitment that we are so lucky now to sit in government with the SV and the Labour Party to be able to exercise, together with the party that also sees the commitment that fortunately also the Christian People's Party has a good eye for. We shall cooperate closely on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e382	Two follow-up questions have been asked – first Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e385	Today, Health West is dealing with a proposal from Health Förde to lay down the maternity ward in Nordfjordeid, and the municipalities of Nordfjord are completely outrun. I quote from a letter written by the North Fjord Council – The North Fjord Council consists of the municipalities of Nord Fjord: ‘The North Fjord Council believes that what is happening at Nord Fjord Sjukehus is not in any way in line with democratic, honest and open processes.’ There has been a representative in a trade union group. This group, which was to make suggestions, had three weeks, and they had only three models to choose from. They were presented with three models that were also not in line with the mandate given by Health West. The municipalities got five days to respond to the model they wanted – five days! What can the Council of State do to stop this process and ensure effective participation of municipalities? They have not, in fact, had it, and the government said that the municipalities had to draw up plans with the regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e399	Firstly, more documents have now been sent to the public that will be important for future health provision. National health and care plans also provide guidance for us to go through the healthcare establishment and the system there to ensure better local impact. There's a little bit ahead of you, and the representative says, "What do we do now?" In today’s system, the business meeting has to assess whether the underlying processes and the decision submitted by the health care provider are in line with government policy. A decision is being made today in the Health West. In these days, decisions in the other regional health care agencies have either been made or are to be made, just linked to the important food services that people around the country are busy with. The preliminary meeting will normally have to assess whether the decision is in line with the government's policy, and we need to get back to it when the plans have arrived at the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e406	Åge Starheim – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e409	The center party likes to view itself as the strongest district-friendly party and tries to base people's hold on it. I come from Selje Municipality, a municipality where the population has been reduced by several hundred people in recent years. What does it do? Yeah, it's people's fear that important services will be taken from them. Today the board of Health West, if I am not very wrong, has followed the administration's recommendation and laid down the maternity ward in Nordfjordeid. The council is well aware of what has been signaled by young people and others from my home municipality, where they say that they do not want to stay or be in a municipality that does not have satisfactory food supply. Will the Council of State, as a representative of the Government, put its foot down and make sure that this decision is not put into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e418	I'm particularly sensitive to the strong commitment that is, not only in Nordfjordeid, but also in other parts of the country, attached to emergency preparedness and food supply. That's why the Soria Moria statement states that the proximity to these services should be assessed in particular. There will also be a background for the dialogue to be held in the Business Meeting when the Minister of Health gets his case on his table. Then I'll probably mean mine there. There's no unknown phenomenon that I'm a champion for us to maintain both health services and other services where people live. When it's true of the Center Party for these services, it's probably not just an impression we're trying to convey. All the investigations show that of the political parties it is the Center Party that is troubling. We are also fighting the toughest fights for people to have equivalent offers throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e425	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e429	I think there were many who responded to Solheim State Council statements earlier in the Questionnaire today that the policy of the Progress Party is to ‘press money’. It was a little bit low in precision, not to call it the level of seriousness. When a State Council expresses itself on behalf of the Government, that type of inappropriate opinion should be omitted. I also need to talk about big money. The focus programme at the NRK last night revealed that Norad has hidden information about some aspects of the microloan scheme in Bangladesh for a number of years. Microloans are money given to banks that lend to poor people, especially women, in some of the world's poor countries. But as the TV program Focus revealed last night: Much has been lost since it was granted by the Stortinget. About 300 million. kr, as Grameen Bank was asked to repay, was written off in 1998 in a compromise between the Norwegian authorities and Grameen Bank, and, as far as I can understand, without this being publicly known. Then my question is, Did the Council of State know about this relationship before the NRK made him aware of it a few days ago? And do the Department and Norad now have routines that make u-help money used in accordance with the purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e440	I was not familiar with this relationship before the NRK Focus began its roll-up of the case and made me aware of it, and it is probably a little more than a few weeks ago. But it was when we heard about the NRK Focus, that I got acquainted with it. The current Minister for Development Hilde Frafjord Johnson and the Minister for Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk, as I understand – I have not been able to talk to them myself – have made it known that they did not know about this either when the matter was up. So this was a matter for the Bondevik I government. Norad went through the case at the end of the 1990s and found that there was no misuse of money in the sense that there was a suspicion of corruption, that the money had gone for purposes that were unacceptable. But it was a relationship that cannot be accepted, namely that Norway had an agreement with the Grameen on money for a purpose, and then the money was used for something else. So if we have an agreement with a country that money should be spent on carrots, they can't suddenly spend it on apples, even if apples in and on their own are healthy and good food. The funds shall be used for the purposes for which they have been agreed to be used. 170 of these millions were brought back to what was agreed, namely Grameen Bank. It was accepted that a different amount, then in the order of 130 million. kr, was used for legal purposes, including: for cleaning up after the great cyclone that had hit Bangladesh. So it was money that was used for developmental policy acceptable purposes, but they were not used for what it was agreed that the money would be used for, and that is and will be unacceptable. I would ask Norad to make a statement on this matter and, of course, to make any information available to the Stortinget that Stortinget may wish on the occasion of the case. To make it very brief, there is no suspicion, as I have seen, that some money has been stolen or abused, but the money is spent on something other than what was agreed, and that is not acceptable. I will strive for full transparency on all such questions, both in the past and in the present.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e457	I thank you for the answer, but I have to say that I am concerned when such a large amount changes the owner without the fact that neither the Council of State – then the Council of State and the current Council of State – nor the Stortingen have become familiar with it. The fact that this has been used for something else, I would say is irrelevant in this context. My question is then: I share my concerns about the flow of information on how 27 billion. kr in u-help money each year is used, whether they actually arrive at the purposes for which they are intended, or whether they, as in this case, are drifting away?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e464	Now the entire grant management, with which Myhre is probably familiar, has been implemented since then. At the time, Norad was an independent directorate responsible for the management of a large part of the grants. Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself is responsible for the management of the most important part of the grants. I'll take it after memory, but I think 85 pst. is currently managed directly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What Norad manages are subsidies to civil society, which, after a settlement here in the Storting, went up a little bit, which is positive, and there are some business schemes managed by Norad. So today the situation is completely different. This will be directly under the Council of State. And I just have to repeat what was said in yesterday's debate: Norway has the most advanced anti-corruption systems in any country in the world. If anyone can detect any other country doing better than what we do in Norway, I would very much like to hear about it and learn from it. The central unit of corruption, or what to call it, the central unit of control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we set up, is an enormously positive contribution to better governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e471	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e474	This case illustrates that there has been – at least historically – a secret crisis associated with a difficult case for Yunus and Grameen Bank and for a Norwegian partner, one in whom we had great confidence. Does the Council see that more transparency on these issues for the Stortinget and for the Norwegian public would have changed our view of Mohammad Yunus, on Grameen Bank and on microcredit as an instrument, and that the secrecy we have seen here has helped to extend Norwegian support for the very purposes I mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e481	First, I want to say that I am striving for absolute openness. It is difficult for me to understand how this case was not made known to the state councils at the time. But I accept from their words that it certainly did not happen. Of course, such a case should be handled in a different way. We have a completely different culture of transparency today. Yesterday I also highlighted what I call the VG test: we are not going to do anything about Norwegian assistance that cannot be on the first page of the VG. That's what I tell the department every day. Everything we do, we do to make the world a better place. It can withstand the light of day. It's supposed to be public. Then, of course, there may be some balancing situations in other countries. The WikiLeaks leaks show that there are balances in other countries with respect to conditions that cannot be public. But with that exception, we're going to have full publicity about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e488	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e491	For approx. 16 hours ago I made the following proposal here in this Chamber on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken by the government to ensure full transparency around Norwegian assistance.’ Unfortunately, this proposal was voted down. It shouldn't have been, because as the main questioner is here, 27 billion is. for aid and rainforest setting one of the main items of the State budget — and among the least-discussed. Solheim is going to pay tribute for addressing the corruption issue of assistance, because he knows that trust is what should be the background to providing assistance, as we are going to do at a high level. But can Solheim guarantee – given yesterday’s Norad example, where one tries to hide such a relationship – that there will never be a public cover on such examples?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e503	I have to start by repeating that this did not happen under the red-green government, but under a bourgeois government, where at least several of the parties were among today's opposition parties – just so we have that starting point. What is the problem of the Right Party and the Progress Party – I don't want to be arrogant – is that they can't detect one thing that's done anywhere else to fight corruption, which we don't do in Norway. We are doing more than our Swedish and Danish colleagues, who are bourgeois governments. They also do a lot, they're also among the most advanced, but we do more than that. If there's a good idea out there that we don't use, then get it on the table, let's have it discussed. But yesterday's debate showed that the opposition is just trying to open doors – they can't detect one thing that can be done, and we're not trying to do according to poor ability. When those ideas come, I'll evaluate them all, because having a non-corruption assistance is the very foundation of trust in the aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e510	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e514	I also saw Focus, and I must admit that I was a little disappointed. There were conditions there that came out, that were critical, and we have to figure that out. That's why I'm very happy with what the Council of State has already said. Saying that all microfinance is poor is just as wrong as saying that all microfinance is good. I have traveled around the world, and I have been allowed to visit different projects – among others. The power plant runs many nice projects, which I know work well, and which I have seen the results of. When I started politics, I learned that almost 40,000 children die every day. Today, 24,000 children die every day. There's too many, but there's an extreme decline, which shows that a holistic assistance benefits, and microfinance is an important tool. But when we see the case that we did yesterday, I want to challenge the Council of State on this with Norad: what will the Council of State do to ensure that such relationships are detected before, and that one can be sure that the assistance is as effective and as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e521	We're going to have an absolute culture of transparency, except where there's any significant relationship with other countries that make it impossible. That signal has been sent to Stortinget – we send it every day. But let me also use the opportunity to say two words about microcredit. So while someone just a few–three years ago said that this is the only rewarding form of assistance – we should almost use the entire state budget there – suddenly the pendulum swings, and then it is thought that this is completely useless. The truth is in between. This is a major, important form of assistance. We should keep doing that. The Power Foundation and others are making a good effort, and I have now invited to a meeting with the Power Foundation, with the Mission Alliance and with the Ferd-initiated Norwegian Microcredit Initiative to discuss, to ensure that we are not overly aggressive in the push of microcredit. But basically, microcredit is a loan; it's not a gift, it's interest on it. The interest rates are much lower than those of private ager sharks that people borrowed from before, but taking up a microcredit loan is also a risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e531	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e534	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment's budget proposal shows that the government will work to ensure as far as possible free natural areas. Intervention-free natural areas currently constitute 45 pst. of the land area, but not enough with it: from the definition, a 1 km edge zone around these so-called non-interventional areas must also be established, and then these non-interventional areas constitute 70 pst. of the land area. This is a powerful attack on ownership. I would argue that this is the most powerful attack on ownership in recent times. There is a strong attack on local self-government, and it hampers the development of nutrition in a large part of the country. And so this happens without any kind of compensation for the shareholders involved. It could then be assumed, or assumed, that this was the result of a thorough debate in the Stortinget, with related legislation and structures that ensured good processes. We have mentioned this from the Right with the Minister for the Environment in the past, and we are given this same answer as in the budget proposal, and reference is made to 16 laws that authorise this. The right has gone through these 16 laws, and the concept of ‘intervention-free natural areas’ is not a single place in any of the 16 laws. So my question to the Minister for Environmental Protection is: Is the Minister for the Environment satisfied that such an extensive interference with private property rights and local self-government takes place without legal treatment in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e545	This matter was raised quite recently – if I do not remember faults – probably in connection with a document proposal from the Right and others. In this context, we pointed out that this has been presented in a number of large-scale communications by different governments – also of different party colours than the current government – and it is also informed about it in different ways in the draft budgets. There is also a reference to that in the 2011 draft budget. I have no difficulty in seeing the balance here between the ownership that is an important pillar of Norwegian society, and the fact that this is among the most untouched areas in Norway, and that a modern society needs a few untouched areas. I was on the Transport Committee in Stortinget for many years, and I remember seeing plans showing areas that were a certain number of kilometres from road and other human facilities – in 1900, in 1950, in 1990 and today. It shows that the number of areas that are at a distance from the nearest power station, or the nearest forest highway, or what it might be of other human intervention, is now an extremely small part of the Norwegian territory. It is hoped to preserve some such areas that this concept of ‘intervention-free areas’ is introduced by the respondent.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e552	My supplementary question goes to the Minister of State. The so-called non-interventional natural areas constitute, as practised by this government, 70 pst. the area of the country. It's not small areas, it's large areas and a large part of the Kingdom. Thus, considerable power over large areas has been transferred from landowners and local authorities to state authorities, at the expense of local self-government. One example is the municipality of Balsfjord in Troms, which decided last April that the concept of INON should be abolished and that there is a threat to the county's renewable production, as it is called. The right fully agrees with that. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the government's work on non-interventional natural areas and that this leads to a strong centralisation of power over the areas at the expense of local self-government and private landowners?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e561	If one looks at our country from a bird’s point of view, there is a relatively large area where it does not carry people. I see that every weekend when I take the plane home to the West – it can be seen when a person travels by plane and sees the country in a bird’s-eye view. But it is important that the areas where people live should be managed in a good way, that municipalities should have access to the land with their inhabitants, that ownership rights should be respected, and that, to the extent that interference with ownership in a way that reduces future income opportunities, there should be compensation for that. It's a line that the government is also working for. We work with local democracy to get the best solutions around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e566	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e569	The answer from the Council of State Navarsete was with respect to notifying an answer without special content. We know that a lot of the country is uninhabited, but that a term like INON, which is very little known out there among people, can dominate land management in many ways, 70 pst. of the country's area, is quite dramatic. This is a concept that has been employed in the Norwegian administration for more than 15 years, without taking a fundamental debate based on Norwegian culture and Norwegian tradition. It's a concept that comes from Canada. The centre party was in opposition very critical of the use of INON. I guess you still are. But what initiatives has the Central Party taken in the government to get the concept of political debate up, so that it can be anchored in Norwegian culture and tradition? The question goes to Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e578	That's a not uninteresting statement. It is the Council of State of Navarsete who is given the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e581	I was a little upset because the Council of State was at my side, and I thought it might be right for him to do the government's initiative in this matter, and not the Minister of State, who is standing here. It's not a secret that the Center Party has been very skeptical about INNON. We have wished for a line where local management is most likely to take place, that we should have voluntary arrangements that include our communities and landowners. Some people feel that INON intervenes too much, we have been concerned about it and are concerned about it. I still think it is right that the responsible state council does well for the government's initiative and policy when it comes to the matter itself, and the person is in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e591	So there's an opportunity to ask follow-up questions to other government councils. Of course, the President agrees that the questions should be asked to the main Council of State, but there is no doubt that on this issue there are both municipal concerns, planning laws and other matters relevant to several councils. The size is sure that we have a government that has one point of view, and so, I guess the same answer comes regardless of which state council answers. Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e596	Had it been so well that we always got the same answer regardless of who we ask, there would have been wealth in the country – at least politically. Many protection decisions that have been taken have been linked, for example: Energy resources in Norwegian rivers – this question is then addressed to the Minister for the Environment. One has imposed restrictions on the development of small power plants, and one has also imposed restrictions on larger hydropower projects, despite the fact that many municipalities today want to exploit the energy potential of their municipality. So they don't do it to rage nature, but to secure the settlements and create values, while taking care of their natural and outdoor interests. In several municipalities, municipalities themselves have taken the initiative to initiate new processes to look at old plans and update them, so that all planned dams can be removed, but nevertheless a turbine can be used to improve the power balance and generate income. Will the Council of State ensure that the government takes a regulatory round and makes it possible to use energy resources also in protected watercourses in a prudent manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e607	I don't share the representative's view at all – that if he got the same answer from all the politicians, there would be wealth in the world. On the contrary – the fact that there are different views and shades between politicians is what makes Norway not the Soviet Union. It's a great force. The fact that there are tensions in issues related to the relationship between environmental and district interests, often symbolized by the Senterpartiet and SV, is only a great strength for this government and for Norway. It has made matters much better clarified, and it has given us good compromises in a number of areas. Let me give you an example: we have increased efforts for compensatory measures in the field of predatory protection, dramatically and introduced a differentiated coastal zone policy, which former governments did not have. All of this has occurred at the intersection of SV as the target bearer of the environmental and the centre party as the target bearer of district interests. And it's just a force. So trying to create contradictions between us is not going to succeed either now or later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e612	But the question was something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e617	It is clear from Storting’s Rules of Procedure that a follow-up issue should relate to the main issue. It's not so clear that the answer should relate to the question, but it might have to be there. In any case, the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to go to case 2, which is the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e631	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is directing him. Question 2, from the representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 5, from the representative Kåre Fostervold to the Minister for Transport, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten to the Minister for Health and Care, will be addressed by the representative of Kjell Arvid Svendsen. Question 10, from the representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, to the Minister of Health and Care, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 13, from the representative of Filip Rygg to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Laila Davøy. Question 22, from the representative Hanne Thürmer to the Minister of Labour, will be raised by the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold. Questions 23 and 24, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen and the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad to the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion, respectively, are moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, in response to question 17, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e658	This question, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e661	There were the following questions I asked the Prime Minister: ‘The Minister of State has repeatedly referred to the involvement and support of new institutions and homes for the elderly. At the latest in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago, he fixed the bet. At the same time, we see several municipalities, most recently the rapporteur in Grimstad, who unfortunately notes that the decision of the local council to build nursing homes as a Public Private Cooperation means that the municipality is denied investment grants. How does this relate to the promises of the Prime Minister?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e675	The investment grant for nursing homes and nursing homes is an important instrument in the 2015 care plan. Grants for the construction or renovation of 12 000 hospital and nursing homes shall be offered by the end of 2015. Questions have been raised about who can receive grants under the investment scheme. As stated in the care notification, ‘the municipality shall apply to the House of the Bank for grants, but the grants shall also be available to humanitarian organisations and to others providing owner-occupiers with care services on a non-profit basis’. For example, the interpretation of today's legislation falls. non-residential building permits under this sub-allocation scheme. I have therefore set up a working group to review the legislation of the system to ensure that we are not unnecessarily restrictive in the interpretation. We're in the process of following up on this. I believe it is important to facilitate a continued strong focus on the development of the care sector. That is why we are also proposing in the 2011 state budget to provide commitments for 2000 new places. In addition, we propose to amend the investment grant so that the system of priorities of the county councils of which municipalities are to receive grants is terminated. This is how we ensure that all municipalities that need it can invest in lucky places. This will create more flexibility. Municipalities that have good projects but were not prioritised under the previous scheme are now given the opportunity to apply for state aid for their investments. In January 2011, we will also make proposals to increase the State grant share per housing unit. Contributions to nursing homes will continue to be higher than contributions to day care homes because we still need a high level of attention on home care development. In 2011 prices, the grant increases to a sick home spot from NOK 660000 above to approximately NOK 890000. Similarly, the grant to a nursing home increases from NOK 440000 above to NOK 670000. We also give the change retrospectively. I am concerned that the municipalities will have the opportunity to expand the care service in line with their needs. I believe that we have done so with the proposals put forward before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e690	I hear the Council's response and I hear it's not true. The Council of State says that it is important to do these things in order to stimulate what the municipalities will, and to give the municipalities opportunities. The municipalities say, "We'll do it another way, and then we won't get a grant." KS has made this clear. There are many requests from municipalities that will do so through housing teams or in cooperation with private individuals, and it is still the municipalities that will run and rent out these dwellings – most of them at least. So this is not related to reality. I hear the Council of State is working. Yes – on June 3rd, the County Council promised that she would now start this work. On 18 November, the House Bank has not heard a word about changes and signals that there is nothing to suggest that there will be any changes, either for housing companies or for private people. What can take so long here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e699	I would like to stress that I have had meetings with the House Bank, and the House Bank is of course part of the working group and the work that has been done. And as I also said in my post, we're starting to see if we can use this code more flexibly. There has to be a new case for the Storting, because the Storting has been very clear about the framework and the leadership of the grant scheme as it is today. So I'd say with all due respect that we've actually done something. We have both proposed that the grant be awarded directly to the municipalities upon application from the municipalities to the Husbanken, and we have increased the grant significantly. However, we need to ensure that such large government grants are actually also managed in line with a regulatory framework that does not make us difficult in relation to EEA legislation and competition rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e706	I think I have to maintain that when nothing has happened in six months, and when I know there has been little meeting too, I don't see optimism about the progress in that matter. After all, the House Bank has itself concluded that it is necessary to open the way for housing, and it is also necessary to open the door to other private companies. It's close to believing that that's what slows down this case. There are municipalities that are under pressure financially, who want to spend the money in the best possible way. I referred to the rapporteur in Grimstad. There the local government has said that they have to try every opportunity to make better use of the money in order to offer a good offer to the residents of the municipality. But they don't get the opportunity because they've said they want a Public Private Cooperation. Why doesn't the government then just want to cut through and say that both public and private can get this grant, as long as it's the municipality that runs the care homes, and as long as it's the municipality that has the long-term rental contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e713	With all due respect, I assume that the representative Harberg also agrees that what contact I have with the House Bank, or the Ministry or the Ministry of Local Affairs, is something we may know best about. We have a dialogue with the House Bank on this. We are concerned that it must be established. If changes are to be made, we need to have legislation that also ensures that there are large government grants that will be given to housing companies or others – and the legislation must be designed to ensure that this can be properly implemented. This is a work that we're working on, and that I'm busy with. Because I'm as busy as the representative Harberg that this is something we're going to get. It is a difficult job to expand the care plan in 2015, and I see that it is a work that we have to do with the municipalities, and facilitate the situation well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e732	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e739	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘Norway has recently decided to purchase 20 Dingo 2 armoured vehicles for our forces in Afghanistan. There has been some disagreement about which vehicle is most suitable, but the government claims that Dingo is excellent. Information on the quality of Dingo 2 was found in the media along the way, which should initially have been kept secret. How important is it to the Council of State that such information be kept secret and what could happen to those who allegedly have leaked the information?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e748	I would like to begin by stressing that the rapid acquisition of the Armoured Dingo 2 vehicle by the defence is based on a desire, and a need, to provide our soldiers in Afghanistan with better protection during the demanding operations in which they participate daily. Let it be clear: Dingo 2 is a good alternative and was the only vehicle that could now be delivered. Recent information on the possession of classified documents relating to vehicle protective features against improvised explosives, known as IED, has been obtained. Information on vehicle characteristics may impair the safety of our soldiers if they become known to unauthorised persons. This information has been graded according to the provisions of the Security Act. It is therefore very serious if it should prove that the media have been in possession of such classified documents. Let me be clear that this could potentially endanger the lives of Norwegian as well as allied soldiers. If Norwegian military personnel enjoy security-grade information, this could also compromise our credibility with allies and partners. The person given access to security-graded information in the Defence shall under any circumstances be obliged to prevent the unauthorised from becoming aware of such information. It is too early in this case to conclude with what has happened and whether defence personnel may have been involved. The Defence Operational Headquarters has decided to investigate the situation further. If persons in the Defence Agency have given or contributed to the access of media to a security-rated document, such a breach may be subject to criminal, disciplinary or service prosecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e761	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that we need to have legislation that is strict and accurate in leaking sensitive information. At the same time, it should be possible to look critically at investments made, namely that those who are out doing the job and who are going to take operational responsibility actually have that guarantee. And then you must probably also have the opportunity to ask questions about the claims made by a manufacturer. I'm a little surprised that in this case you don't have the same focus on the qualitative points that have come from the media regarding Dingo 2, but that here you're looking for possible scapegoats to move away from something that might be as important and as the Council itself pointed out, namely this with better protection for the people of Afghanistan. And if those who have done this have done it to focus on the quality, possibly a lack of quality, of the product they are going to buy, it should also be of interest to the Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e766	A rapid acquisition project has been carried out in the Defence. I have been informed that after a review of the available options, Dingo 2 is selected after a thorough evaluation, because it represents the best option, and one of the prerequisites of the Defence Operational Headquarters was that this could be delivered quickly, and during 2010. It has been important to be able to put in place better protection now. And then I have been informed that a longer-term acquisition project has been undertaken. It will then be possible to look at whether the experience that Dingo 2 gives us suggests that we change what should be the long-term solution for the defense in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e773	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It immediately issues at least two questions from my side. One is, can the Council of State confirm, if necessary, whether the FLO has carried out its own tests or is this based on qualitative descriptions provided by the manufacturer? Because it is once that reality – the practical life – does not necessarily always match what is theoretically described. I think again – again – that we have a common concern, that our forces should have the best possible equipment at all times. Governments pointed this out that it was the only thing that was available with fast delivery. Were rapid delivery more important than qualitative challenges? Because I agree that we need it quickly, but at the same time it should not be at the expense of quality, precisely for the sake of our soldiers. So I also allow myself to ask a final question, which is that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence got a copy of a letter claiming that there was a vehicle available – American-produced – that has also been part of this discussion. Is that correct, or is it wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e782	Of course, qualitative requirements are crucial, and it was also important to make a quick choice. The qualitative tests carried out by defence professionals showed that Dingo 2 came out as the best available option now. There have been many press speculations about both technical qualifications and how these are assessed at different levels of defence. I have tried to give a thorough answer to a number of questions that were asked. My starting point, of course, is that it is important that this is assessed by the best professionals we have, and that qualitative requirements must form the basis for the choice made, that it is done quickly and that we have actually ensured an opportunity to also review these requirements if we should choose something else in the long-term acquisition project that the Defense has started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e793	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The Council of State announced in the autumn of 2008 that it would launch ‘a broad evaluation of the tax reform involving both relevant professional environments and organisations’. The undersigned has requested how the environments were involved. The final reports now show that the central organisations have not been consulted and the evaluations appear to be worthless, one-sided assessments. That's not what I understand with evaluation. Does the Council of State consider that he has been given a sufficient basis to draw conclusions on the tax reform?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e802	I believe that we have received a very good basis for continuing the evaluation. It is true, as Mr Gundersen says, that we have not yet submitted a final evaluation. We're going to present it in March-April, or in the spring of 2011. The Ministry of Finance has received and published three external sub-investigations that highlight different aspects of the tax reform. However, this is not a comprehensive evaluation of the reform. And, as I said, the final one will come to spring. In its work on the evaluation, the Ministry of Finance has cooperated with different environments. There has been a wide-ranging group of contacts with stakeholders from organisations and businesses. We have had two professional seminars with tax experts from various institutions in both Norway, Sweden and Denmark. The ministry has received a number of recordings of the work as a result of the events we have had. It is therefore wrong, or incorrect, when it is claimed that central organisations have not been heard. Evaluating tax reform is a major effort, it is both demanding and extensive. It will not be possible to provide a thorough treatment of all the effects of the reform, and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, it is difficult to distinguish the effects of the reform from other factors affecting economic development. Secondly, at least in an evaluation context, it is only a short time since the reform was implemented. In addition, the available data are characterised by both adjustments to the tax reform and the financial crisis. So an important part of the evaluation work is now looking at the impact of the reform on factors that we know have an impact on, among other things. value creation and innovation, such as access to risk capital, the overall tax framework conditions for operating activities and incentives to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e815	It was an answer I appreciated. I hope that the focus will be on future jobs and welfare as well as what we have now seen in those reports, where distribution effects are absolutely central. The background to the question is precisely that the tax system is extremely central to steering individual adaptation and also decisions out. So getting good evaluations of the tax system at regular intervals is important. We know that the professional environments in the department are both competent and strong. The question then arises: What is the size of the meeting going on until the final evaluation is presented to the Stortinget? So far, it's my impression that you haven't involved the broad, professionally affected environments very strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e824	I agree with Mr Gundersen that, of course, the tax system plays an important role in both work and value creation. In particular, the 1992 tax reform showed that this was the case. I believe we have had a very wide contact area in the work we have done so far. But it is clear that if it turns out to be necessary in the further evaluation, we will of course also contact professional environments at that stage. But the rough work of the collection is done before the time we're talking about now. Now a lot of work will be done internally in the department with our professional environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e831	It was kind of like I was in and out of fear. At least on the basis of the reports I have received, there have not really been more than one or maybe two encounters with these broad professional environments and business environments. I believe that is too little involvement of stakeholders in such key issues. I see from the Financial Newspaper that we in the Right should really be proud of the reports that came, because we can take credit for a tax system that works quite well. I think we can agree that it works well in many areas, but then we also know that there are some critical aspects of the tax system that we believe were not met in 2006 and that are of great importance especially for equity, risk ability and this by creating new jobs. I hope there won't be such an internal handling of the matter as the Minister of Finance put up in his answer, and will really just send it as a recommendation to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e840	Will the Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen respond to the recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e843	As I said, I believe that we have so far had a very broad approach to the evaluation. There are good people in the Ministry of Finance, but even in the Ministry of Finance, we need to get help from outside in some contexts. We've done that in this question. So I can promise that it will be a good and broad evaluation. What I can't promise is whether Gundersen gets the answers he wants himself, but it's another thing that we'll get back to when the Stortinge will discuss the evaluation report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e850	I'm sure we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e866	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e873	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘As the Council of State is aware, the Health West Administration has now presented the setting of future health and food provision in the Health Executive Area. They're now proposing to put down the good orthopededi offering that's at Nordfjordeid. They shall not have a laboratory watch at night, and the feeding wards of Lærdal and Nordfjordeid shall be laid down. Is this in line with the government's desire for a decentralised health supply in a state with difficult geographical and climatic conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e882	I am concerned that we give birthers an offer that ensures both proximity, safety and quality. My top priority is that the birthing women and the child are cared for in the best possible way. On 28 May 2009, the size of the population has joined two important proposals for the development of the future food supply. One proposal was that regional health enterprises should draw up comprehensive, multi-annual and locally adapted plans for maternity, maternity and maternity care, together with the municipalities concerned. The second was that previous requirements for division into maternity wards, maternity wards and female clinics based on birth rates are to be replaced by quality requirements for birth institutions. The board of Health Vest RHF is currently dealing with the model of somatic specialist health service in Health Leader and regional plan for maternity, maternity and maternity care. Through the Interaction Reform, municipalities will be more responsible for providing health services to the population. The government wants the current decentralised hospital structure to be used for all development and conversion. Local hospitals, both in Sogn and Fjordane and in the rest of the country, need to be further developed in order to have an important function in the future. The government will continue work on a better work sharing between hospitals. This may mean that some hospitals are doing other tasks than today. Today's decentralised hospital services are to be maintained. This will ensure proximity to emergency services and food services, even if not offered in all hospitals. Local hospitals will play an important role in meeting the major challenges we face, with a greater proportion of older people and more patients with chronic diseases and lifestyle diseases. This could require changes to the provision of services in each hospital. In line with St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009 A happy event I will assess the food plans I have received from regional health companies. The approved food plans will be part of the basis of the National Health and Care Plan, which I intend to present to the European Parliament in spring 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e897	I thank the Council of State for the answer and have the following follow-up questions: Would it not make sense to define the role and content of local hospitals later in the management of the national health plan and not allow healthcare professionals to restructure local hospitals around the country now? Or will there be a more pleasant debate when national health plans are to be addressed once in the New Year, if health professionals have already agreed on the structures in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e904	The work done, and the debate that is going around the whole country, and that engages very many, especially in the provision of food, are really caused by this decision in the Storting. Then we have to try to land it in a good way through good dialogue between health businesses and local communities and see how we can achieve as much as possible the objectives, proximity and quality of government across the country. Today is the last day when these plans are formally dealt with. So I'm going to bring them in, and I can't comment on it any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e911	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. I have previously sent the Minister of Health many questions about the content of the local hospital, without getting a concrete answer. Wouldn't it be time for the Minister of Health to define a clear content in these hospitals, as the Progress Party has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e918	The definition of local hospital content in Norway, which has so varied geography, which has so long distances somewhere and shorter distances between hospitals elsewhere, would not be possible. Defining what's going to be in a hospital is a completely different matter. I have also repeated this earlier in Stortinget, if not to the representative Starheim. It's like, sometimes there's a smaller hospital that's a local hospital. In Bergen, Haukeland is a local hospital for large parts of the population in Bergen and also for large parts of Hordaland. That's why there's a very big variation in the local hospitals. But what is important is that local hospitals have the functions that are important for the population in the area for which they should be local hospitals. That's what I'm concerned about, and it's important to me. It's a large group of patients who don't get a good enough offer so far, and it's the chroniclers. The local hospitals must be local hospitals for them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e929	My question to the Minister of Health and Welfare is this: ‘Vestre Viken healthcare companies and Asker municipality cooperate on several measures that provide users with a comprehensive range of health and care services, including: The activity house and a low level of work measures for the mentally ill. These offers contribute to better health and mastering for users, thus reducing the need for accommodation and other treatment. These offers are threatened because of cuts in Western Viken HF. What does the Council of State do to prevent the conduct of good interaction actions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e938	In the light of Mr Graham's question, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has asked Health South-East to be briefed on this matter. Health South-East has asked for a comment from Vestre Viken HF and can inform that the final consideration of draft budget proposals will be dealt with by the Board of Health on 20 December 2010. The Western Week points out that such a budgetary process promotes and assesses various measures to provide a budget that meets the requirements. Among the current savings measures discussed in such preparation for the budget, some will be promoted, while others will be rejected for various reasons. It is therefore difficult for me to comment on the specific action of the representative Graham. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important that health services have overall good and coherent services for the group in question. However, Health South-East has assured me that they are clear that health companies should have good cooperation with their municipalities, as well as the importance of good offers in learning and mastering. In the Governing Board case 108/2008, the Health South-East Governing Board provides clear strategic leadership for the interaction and development of treatment provision in the region. Health South-East states that they have followed this up in their assignment and order to the Vestre Viken for 2010. In terms of overall patient conduct and interaction, Health South-East has also asked for the interaction agreements with municipalities to be further developed. It takes place in the light of the aforementioned board case, St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009 The cooperation reform, the regional framework agreement with the KS and the regional vector plan. I have also received information from Health South-East that they will follow up on the fact that health companies are complying with the orders and instructions they have received. This shall be done through follow-up meetings and annual notification by health establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e951	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that health businesses have come a long way in implementing the Interaction Reform already, in the sense that bedtime is being reduced and more and more treatment is being provided outpatiently or by outpatient services. It is in many ways a right development, but it also means a considerable increase in pressure on municipalities, which must deal with increasing responsibilities for patients. The draft budget for the following year continues to provide health businesses with funds for increased activity, while the local authorities' framework does not provide the same room for growth. The question to the Council of State will then be whether the specialist health service is in the process of building up its services much faster than alternative services are in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e962	I get the question. I can also understand the concern that this is going to happen. At the same time, very clear leads have been given to health businesses that this should not happen, that they should not dismantle the offer until they can be built up in the municipalities, and that they should also enter into good cooperation agreements with the municipalities. After all, when the new legislation will have been adopted, they will be subject to specific agreements. It will therefore be compulsory to have agreements between the health business and the municipalities. Then I hope that the fear of building up will disappear, because the municipalities will then agree on how to deal with patients at different levels. I would like to stress once again that it is important that healthcare companies interact well with the municipalities and cooperate on patient groups that we are particularly concerned about, mentally ill, which are a vulnerable group, and which we really need to give the best offer we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e971	Although cut-offs in interaction measures and prevention services can have a short-term balancing gain, they can be very expensive in the large social accounts. Low-threshold offers, such as: The activity house in Asker provides better health and quality of life and strengthens the opportunity for participants to master both everyday life and work. In view of the fact that mental illness is one of the main causes of disability and sick leave, it is a good investment for mentally ill people with work-related activity. I should like to know: What are the governance signals of the Council of State for healthcare companies regarding these patients and such measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e978	My control signals for mental illness are that this is a patient group for which activity is to be increased. It's done too. So it's like when you're in a process, it's really hard to go into single measures. But I assume that offers similar to those of this group will be kept. There are also good offers around, although this might change something just about this specific. This is a process currently in progress. Therefore, it is very difficult to go in and discuss or comment on a specific individual measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e989	This question, from the representative Dagfinn Høybråten to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Kjell Arvid Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e992	The question to the Minister of Health and Welfare is: ‘Non-profit enterprises have a clear value base and a socially beneficial purpose and their welfare services are an important complement to the public offer. Duedalen Blue Cross Treatment Centre has an operating agreement with Health West for 12 treatment sites in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The centre recently lost a tender and is therefore threatened with closure. Does the Council of State agree that the non-profit sector has an independent self-esteem and that it is a political task to ensure that the sector is maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1001	In this questionnaire I have received many questions, of which questions 8 and 11 and partly 14 deal with the purchase of services in the drug field. So my answers to these questions are going to be pretty similar. About 60 pst. of the total capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment in the drug field consists of private non-profit institutions which have agreements with regional health establishments. In addition, the municipal sector also has agreements with a number of private non-profit institutions. I would therefore agree with Mr Svendsen's representative that the non-profit sector has an independent self-esteem. In the procurement process in question, Health West has opened up the possibility for only non-profit institutions to participate in competition. They have therefore applied the specific provisions of the procurement rules to non-profit institutions. As Minister of Health and Welfare, I am concerned that the services offered as drug addicts should be of the highest quality possible and that the availability of services should be as good as possible. Quality has been one of the key elements in the acquisition processes implemented by regional health enterprises in recent years. I am therefore confident that regional health firms have ensured the highest quality of services for drug addicts. Finally, I would like to mention that regional health companies themselves need to assess the needs of specialist health services for the population in their health region, including whether there is a need to enter into agreements with private institutions on multidisciplinary specialised treatment. Strengthening the drug field is a long-term process. I can assure you that the drug field will have a high priority in my work in the coming time, and that private ideal actors will still have a central place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1016	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad she stressed that they have a self-esteem. As for the quality that these have expressed, we haven't heard anything about it being complained about. Today there are more than 4000 people in line for help in the care of the drug. At the same time, institutions are being laid down before you have been able to build up enough treatment sites. The question of follow-up is: does the Council of State really want such offers from non-governmental organisations to be closed before a full coverage is available?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1025	In the tender in question, only non-profit institutions were asked. As you have to go through the quality of them and consider what questions you have asked. So Health West has made some changes in the leadership of what they care about. But they have a larger outlet than they had in the current year. It has to be the case that health professionals assess what is needed, and based on the needs of patients and drug addicts, not on the basis of what the organisations or institutions have to offer. So it'll always be an assessment of what's best quality, based on what you're asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1032	No matter how you view this: in a tendering process, it was only public, and that is how the ideal institutions are emptied of tasks, professionals, money and users. There is often a cross-press between what is happening in the market and the state. So the self-esteem, which at least our party stands for, wants you to be involved in that care, in the policy that is being pursued, how this is done and in the tendering principle. Because on the general level, this is the way – I remember from the election campaign where the Labour Party was very clear that Granny was not going to bid – that those who are addicted to alcohol, those who need it, are good enough to get on the offer. Is that how the Council looks at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1039	It would not be against me that we did more of this work in public. But we are very pleased with many of the non-profit organizations and institutions that offer a very good offer to this group, which I am very concerned that still should have a good offer. So that's how, I don't know if the representative Svendsen perceived it, that Health West has just gone out to non-profit organisations. Then it's also that, assuming you have to have a certain quantity, there will be someone who is being selected, and someone who is not being selected. We have to choose who best fits the addicts, who gives the best quality, who can offer what you demand, and not just because you have non-profit organisations that you want to support. Now that you have gone to ideals, I believe that you have followed the government's governance requirements, because we are as concerned about this as the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1052	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Health South-East has decided not to renew its agreements with the Furukollen Psychiatric Centre of the Årnes in Akershus. It means the closure of many sites and affects patients with an extensive need for psychiatric follow-up. There is now uncertainty for patients and their relatives. Ideal institutions are an important part of good psychiatric health provision, which is a prerequisite for society’s security. What will the Council of State do to ensure a wide range of offers to this patient group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1061	The aim of mental health work is to promote independence, independence and the ability to master one's own life for people with mental illness. It was settled when Stortinget dealt with the Roadblock for mental health. It is about focusing on mastering rather than disease, a clear user perspective, increasing emphasis on voluntary solutions and individually organised services. It is also about moving services closer to users, and it is not least about making it easier for people with mental disorders to live a more general life. It involves being able to live in their home municipality, have a network, a social offer, work or a type of employment and security that health care is available when needed. Boiling, daily support functions and primary health services are a municipal responsibility. The specialist health service shall provide for investigation, diagnosis and treatment at the specialist level. This division of labour is made clear by the escalation plan and is further underlined by the draft new municipal health and care law, which is now being consulted. The escalation plan builds up comprehensive services at both levels of government, which provide a good basis for custom-made services. The interaction reform suggests strengthening the economic framework of municipalities and increasing the growth of health services in municipalities in the years to come. This will help municipalities to establish new offers. This is the right way to go in order to ensure a proper offer to all those in need of mental health care. The final result of the acquisition of Health South-East in the field of mental health protection is not clear until any review procedure is completed. However, I have received insurance from Health South-East that they provide continuity in the offer to the patient group in question, regardless of what will be the final result for the agreements in the field of mental health protection. In conclusion, I agree with Mr Hareide that the ideal institutions are an important part of the overall service provision in Norway. It is therefore worth noting that the current acquisition in Health South-East has just been reserved for non-profit institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1076	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for the answer. In particular, I am pleased that she emphasises it with continuity in the supply of this patient group. I received today a text message from one of the people who were happy and thanked me for taking the case and working for these institutions not to be closed. This person writes that the suspension of three months was entirely decisive because the next person is living a good life with his own family and is in full employment. This is what this is all about – a good supply that ensures an important patient group follow-up. Yesterday I was in a debate about whether we should have a train offer. To that the government clearly says no. Then there's a paradox for me that this group is put on offer and does not get the security and care that they enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1085	I have a great deal of understanding of the representative Hareide's commitment to this particular group. It's an engagement I share. I'm very concerned that they will be cared for in a good way, that they will be cared for in their community, that they will have the best possible offer and the best possible content of their lives, and that they will be able to live as normal a life as we are. At the same time, we – and also the Christian People's Party – have been busy using non-profit organisations where they can make an offer. Within this area there are many ideals that offer an offer. But if you have to choose between them, you also have to choose from quality. Then someone loses the offer they have received, and someone else gets it. At least here's the way it's just ideal institutions that's got.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1092	I fully share the commitment of the Minister of Health. We need ideal institutions in this sector. I think that meant a lot because we've had a lot of stuff here. What worries me is that we are now seeing a development where many of the ideals are going to have to lay down. Many have laid down, and many say that with the authority that now lies there, they will have to lay down. Then I feel that in a way we have a system failure within the sector, where the ideals are forced to settle down. Had it been so, there would have been many new ideas that had taken the place, but that's not what we're experiencing. We now experience that the list of non-profit institutions that have been laid down in recent years has been longer and longer. HSH says that if these developments continue, the non-profit institutions will be gone within five to ten years. What is the Minister of Health's comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1097	I think that if we look at the big picture, some institutions will be shut down in a few years – I think so. In fact, we say that quite clearly on the basis of a new national health and care plan in the area of rehabilitation, precisely because we want rehabilitation to be a municipal responsibility and to take place more closely where people live – that people in the West, for example, should not travel to the East in an institution to get the necessary rehabilitation. It must be the responsibility of the municipalities. Then the municipalities can enter into agreements with the institutions in their municipality. Of course, they are free to do so, and we still need many in the specialist health service. But then it is that in this context we need more. We're using more, and we're just using the ideals. I could understand the criticism if it was commercial that had got the agreements, but it is not. There are other ideals that have joined that competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1119	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1126	‘The Rissa BUE Foundation operates drug addicts treatment provision. They're able to keep their heads above the water. In recent years, they have reduced capacity from 41 places to 17 places. Of these, they have an agreement with Health North in ten places. The rest of the squares are empty. Will the Council of State ensure that regional health enterprises buy treatment facilities from non-profit institutions so that institutions such as the BUE Foundation survive and drug addicts can leave the treatment queue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1133	As Minister of Health and Welfare, I am concerned that drug addicts are offered services of the highest quality possible. Quality is a very important element in the procurement processes that regional health businesses have now implemented or are planning to implement. I am therefore confident that regional health businesses will ensure, through these acquisition processes, the acquisition of services that are of the best quality possible. About 60 pst. of the total daily capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment in the drug field consists of private non-profit institutions which have agreements with regional health establishments. In addition, municipalities have agreements with a number of private non-profit institutions providing different types of care services for drug addicts. Often, the private ideals represent a crucial complement to the services and services provided by the specialist health service or operated by the municipality for the drug addicts. There is reason to mention that regional health businesses themselves need to assess the needs of specialist health services for the population in their health region. This means that regional health businesses themselves need to assess their own needs to enter into agreements with private institutions on the multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts — in addition to the services they own and operate. Finally, I would like to stress that the effort to strengthen the drug field is a long-term process. I can assure the representative Hope that the drug field will have a high priority in my work in the coming time, and that private ideal actors will still have a central place. As you know, the government will present a major report on drug policy during 2011. Private players in the drug field will also be mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1146	It is true, as has been said, that the institutions that lose tenders are often closed. But the reality is that the institutions that win tenders are also closed. This is an example of an institution that has won a tender in Health Nord, but is still at risk of being closed because the tender conditions are such that it is not possible to live with – you cannot maintain a professional environment, it is too short-sighted for you to operate, and there are too few places to cover. It is nice that health businesses run their own rounds for the ideals, and that should be done by everyone, but the Council of State must take into account that those who win are also at risk of closure. Will the Council of State take action to look at the contents of the Rules of Procedure — the short-termity and the conditions — which effectively threaten the closure of even the successful tenderers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1153	These agreements are usually concluded for four years, and I understand very well that sometimes you can be concerned about the development of a professional environment. In the case of NPISHs and institutions, there are also opportunities to conclude contracts of longer duration. It is equally complete, which needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of changes in the type of treatment provided, and on the basis of the need to assess and evaluate the provision made by each institution. I don't have any problems understanding that it can be demanding for institutions to offer contracts that are time-limited. But that's actually part of the whole job of making tenders. It is a great commitment to caring for the non-profit organizations and the non-profit institutions, and I also believe that through all my answers today I have shown that we are prioritizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1158	It's not just demanding, but it's partly impossible for these institutions to operate with the conditions that are today. The feedback is quite unison, not only from some institutions in some bidding rounds, but from all organisations operating in this field, that we will be gone in a few years if the framework conditions that exist today continue. The story is that these organizations, whether it's the Church, it's the Salvation Army, it's the Church's City Mission, it's the Sanity Women, or who it is, are actually the actors that started up what we know today as our welfare services. Then the municipalities and the state have come back and supplemented their offer, and then you have lived side by side. Then we're facing the historical situation that they can be deleted in a few years with the conditions that are today. I assume that eradicating idealism in the welfare community is not a bauta that this government wants to have after it. I'm glad that the Council of State recognises the need for long-termity, and in the case of the BUE Foundation, it's probably an even shorter agreement than four years. So I ask the question again: will the Council of State go through the conditions given to the institutions in today's bidding rounds, to ensure the long-termity that ensures the self-esteem that the ideals actually represent?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1167	This is a recurring discussion that we have, and just let me stress how important it is that we have the Church's City Mission, the Salvation Army and all the other institutions that the representative Håbreek mentioned, as actors, because they do a fantastic job – a very important job. But at the same time, if you're going to have a restriction on institutions, you're going to have to be able to choose them by quality. Then it becomes like this, unfortunately, that someone wins, and some lose. That's how this system needs to be managed. It is difficult to do so in another way without conflicting with all types of legislation in relation to direct acquisition; it is not possible to do so. I very much want us to have the diversity that we have, and that everyone should be able both to drive their own development and to give patients a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1178	There's nothing to say on the condition of the Council of State, at least. ‘The Manifesto Centre, which has treatment facilities for patients with double diagnosis in Oslo, has only been agreed with Health South-East in 12 of its 26 locations. Does the Council share the view that it must be demanding to operate an institution with reduced capacity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1187	Health South-East RHF is now implementing a public procurement of health services, including: in the field of mental health protection. This acquisition is directed only at non-profit institutions. The current institution in which the representative Syversen is involved obviously offers a good deal to patients with a combination of drug dependence and mental illness. However, it is Health South-East that must assess the total supply of this patient group and ensure that the population is given the right volume and quality of this kind of specialist healthcare. It is difficult for me to give a good assessment of the views of the representative Syversen on the operating situation of the Manifesto Centre, after any allocation from Health South-East. I know neither the institution's operational assumptions nor what any contract awarded could involve for this institution. Health South-East complaint proceedings in connection with the acquisition of mental health protection services have not been completed. Therefore, there is no final result in that acquisition either. It is therefore not right for me to comment on the specific acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1198	I would like to inform the Council of State a little bit about volume. I don't think there's any doubt that there's a need for this institution. As far as we've had experience, it's now a waiting list that's so long that you have to expect a waiting time of over a year to fit in a similar offer as what we're talking about here. So they've built a new unit. It's empty, while a lot of people are in line. I want to stay a little bit at what the Council of State has said for several rounds. She says that she is “secure” – I have noted this – that Health South-East makes the right assessments in all these tendering processes. I must say that I had not been so sure about it. For example: Oslo Hospital, from a professional point of view, said that the tender document that was put out was directly embarrassing, poor professional work, the consequences of which are disastrous for the most vulnerable patient groups. My question is, does the Council have an interest in going in and looking at how these tendering procedures actually work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1207	It is clear that when I get so many questions, we also ask Health South-East, and we ask health companies, what have you actually done? I would like to stress that there is a complaint procedure between some institutions and Health South-East. It is also part of the whole process. And once again, in this field, only non-profit institutions have made an agreement. What I am sure of is that this patient group should be taken care of. When an institution has overcapacity in relation to what is offered, I understand that it can be demanding. However, it is equally full that when Health South-East has a responsibility for the patient groups in its region, they also need to assess how much capacity is really needed. In the case of a one-year waiting period, the duration of a patient’s waiting period shall be determined on the basis of a medical/professional assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1218	The Manifesto Centre has this long waiting period, but they are not allowed to post their offer on friesyshusval.no. Health South-East has also provided for this. If I can recommend the Council of State to take a look at it: I think the institution and certainly the patients would have been happy about it. And then to this with the competition the ideals between them: Yes, talk to the ideals about this. Those who used to be important partners among themselves have now become competitors. They cannot exchange information, and they cannot use each other's competences in the way they did before. It disables health establishments – otherwise it goes beyond the tendering rules. I have to say that I really feel that there is an unfortunate situation that has come to mind. I am deeply concerned about the regime that health companies represent in these tendering procedures, and I wish – it must be my appeal – that the Minister for Health not only hears and receives letters and takes note of what they say, but that she goes in dialogue with them to get this on a completely different and better track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1227	There must be no doubt that we are in dialogue with health businesses. Of course we are. They amount to over 100 billion. kr from the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget. They have a responsibility for the specialist health service of the entire population. Clearly, we are in dialogue with them. But that's interesting, when it's just non-profit institutions that's got a deal on – then I don't understand how to pick someone when you can't make an appointment with everyone, because you don't need everyone. Then I really want a way to do this that also ensures an international law that we rely on, and a competition law and other laws that make it impossible to make direct acquisitions in the case of non-profit institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1234	That recipe can be given to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1243	This question, from the representative of Filip Rygg to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Laila Davay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1246	I am delighted to ask the following questions: ‘Ideal institutions carry out extensive work to provide some of the most vulnerable to treatment in the society. When we know that nearly 4,000 addicts are in line, we are totally dependent on this effort. Therefore, it is paradoxical that regional health enterprises, which are now currently Health West, have tendering procedures for which there is less money to buy than offered by the ideal actors. This means that the capacity is not used. What will the Council of State do to make use of the available capacity of non-profit institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1255	Regional health establishments are known to be responsible for providing specialist health services to the population in their region. This means that they need to make an overall assessment of the needs of the population in terms of the type of services, service volume and quality. Health West, in line with the other regional health companies, has an economic framework established by the Stortinget. The framework shall contribute to the financing of the total activities of specialist healthcare in its own health region. As you know, Health West is completing an acquisition process in multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. The latest figures from the Norwegian patient register show that the waiting time for treatment for drug addicts has decreased by seven days. It's now 3,800 waiting for treatment. This is a positive development. Furthermore, I would like to stress that all those waiting for treatment should have been assessed for their right to treatment, and they should have received a date for starting treatment at the latest. Prior to the acquisition process, private non-profit institutions represented about 80 p.m. of the total daily capacity and approximately 60 pst. of outpatient services in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. As a result of that acquisition, the proportion of the daily capacity of private non-profit institutions serving households will decrease slightly. At the same time, the proportion of outpatient capacity will increase slightly. Therefore, overall, private non-profit actors represent most of the capacity in this field. Health Vest, as I understand it, has also contributed to a clear growth in the offer of multi-disciplinary specialised treatment through the new agreements. There has been a significant increase in outpatient services, and Health West establishes a new outpatient outpatient service. Furthermore, there is a relatively large increase in the number of day places and an increase in the daily supply. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that Health West in the current procurement process has only opened up for non-profit institutions to participate in the competition. They have therefore applied the specific provisions of the procurement rules to non-profit institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1273	I have an additional question that concerns, among other things. one of the institutions in the Health West. It's about the Skogli home, as it was called – a Blue Cross institution on Askøy. This institution has many dozens of employees and helped to build up the entire care system in the West when it was relocated for some decades ago. They have taken enormous responsibility. I hear from what the Council of State is now saying about Health West, that people are about to reduce the ideals in order for the public to take over more. It may be right that the public should do more, but we do not have free capacity in the West. People are in line. It's just to take a walk in the town of Bergen one night, and you meet a lot of addicts who say they're not getting any help. So instead of shutting down, you should increase your capacity. My question is, how in the world can you accept to lay down institutions that have been running and taking responsibility for so many decades?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1282	That's an increase of 24 million. kr in the acquisitions that Health West now makes in relation to private, but there is a turnaround in the way they work. It's more about outpatient services, it's more about outpatient, outpatient service, which I think is very important to reach other groups, there's an increase in daily places, and there's an increase in daily places. In addition, it is also the case that Health West builds up and does more itself. So, in fact, I expect that the total supply of drug addicts in the area of Health West should now be improved, that waiting times should be further reduced and that more people should be treated. At the same time, I just have to say that I understand very much that those who have not been agreed – so far at least – are disappointed about it, but it is only ideals that have been agreed upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1289	We've been trying to figure out how things have been throughout the country with ideal institutions. As far as we know, from 2005 to 2010, most of the last three years, we have the following numbers: 15 non-profit institutions have already closed down 20 institutions, i.e. they do not have full capacity, or they have lost their tender and are running counter to closure on those days four shall be admitted to tender in 2010; The calculations we have say that we're going to get fewer and fewer non-profit institutions. The figures will come later, as the Council of State knows. The Council of State gives the impression that there are no ideals that are going to be abolished. But it's actually, it's huge. We have cows in the russian sector. Is it okay that non-profit institutions disappear a little after a while?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1306	I actually have an overview of the institutions that have been agreed on, or that are at least in the process of signing an agreement in the Health West, and then there is certainly also a closing complaint procedure here. It is the Kalfaret treatment centre, which is run by the Church's Social Service, it is the Bergenklinikken Foundation, which is well known to the representative Davøy – a non-profit foundation – it is the Haugaland A-centre, the Blue Cross West, it is the Rogaland A-centre, the Church's City Mission, it is the Salvation Army's treatment centre in Stavanger, and it is the Valdresklinikken Foundation, which is also an ideal foundation. It is – once again – that health-care establishments must conclude agreements with those who can actually deliver the required offer. And there's also been a change, as I said in my previous answer, in what you're asking for. I have a great deal of understanding that it is difficult for those who have not got an agreement, but it is not that we do not prioritize the ideals. It's actually Health West.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1317	«In competitive procedures in regional health establishments, institutions are confronted with criteria or conditions which exclude them from participating. Among other things, LAR patients require that institutions providing only drug-free treatment, such as the Fossum Collection in Eastfold, are not able to provide services at treatment sites. What will the Council of State do to ensure that health businesses have conditions which do not exclude institutions from obtaining treatment contracts and which ensure that they benefit from their capacity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1324	Quality is one of the most important elements of the procurement processes implemented or planned by regional health establishments. I am therefore confident that regional health businesses – through these acquisition processes – will ensure the optimal quality of services for those who are addicted to drugs. It is the responsibility of regional health enterprises to assess what services the population needs. In addition to the services they own and operate, they must assess the need to conclude agreements with private institutions. Of course, this also applies to multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. In the overall assessment that regional health businesses have to make before the acquisition process, criteria or conditions will always be set that some providers will not be able to meet. With regard to the requirement to accept LAR patients, such consideration would have to be assessed against patients’ right to free hospital choice, i.e. free choice of treatment institution. The representative, Mr Heimdal, is concerned with the utilisation of available capacity by non-profit institutions. As Minister of Health and Welfare, I am concerned that the services of drug addicts should be of the highest quality possible. I am confident that regional health companies will buy services from the private institutions that, as a whole, offer the best services. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the acquisition processes in the drug field there have been altogether more services offered than has been announced. As a result, some institutions which have sought to conclude agreements have not been offered to conclude such agreements. If all institutions involved in procurement processes were offered contracts, the costs would increase significantly for regional health enterprises. Potentially, such practices would also lead to overcapacity. Finally, I would like to stress that I am following developments in the drug field carefully and will consider measures if the capacity is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1337	I thank you for your answer. I, the undersigned and the Council of State agree that the highest quality of drug treatment should be given. In the Fossum Collective, which is a treatment collective for children and young people, it is particularly important that it is good quality. But then we have to define quality. So far, the fossil collective has had a negative score, because they offer drug-free treatment. We know that it is challenging for some young people to be with others who use drugs when they are going to be drug free. Thus, in the bidding round, these quality conditions present some challenges for children and young people who wish to become drug independent. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that conditions in relation to drug-free treatment are given greater weight because it is requested in the Health South-East region?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1346	I'm concerned that everyone needs to be evaluated individually, even on the basis that someone doesn't use drugs, that someone doesn't want to go to the LAR, and that there are different assessments here. Similarly, I would like to say that it is important for Health South-East, which has the overall overview of the needs of its region, to make the professional assessment of this. Once again, this is a process that has now passed. As far as I know, the final appeal procedure has not yet been completed. I can't say anything more than that the offer they're going to give to their patient group, they have to consider for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1351	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. The Council of State places a great deal of responsibility on regional health businesses to pursue government policies. There may be a policy that ends with institutions that believe in drug-free treatment not being taken care of by these tenders because they either have a negative score, as has been the case in the past, or, as they now say to us, because there is a strong emphasis on having to offer something else. Is it not, in accordance with government policy, to have a drug-free treatment offer, since such a great responsibility is placed on regional health businesses? Then I lift it up, and I ask, is it not the government's policy to take care of institutions that believe in abstinence?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1360	This is a very special institution. As far as I understand, it's an institution where it's also long-term treatment. The question is, should some patient groups be excluded? As I said, I am concerned that you should have individual offers. At the same time, the expert for drug abuse and mental health professionals in the various health regions is fully involved. Regional health companies have enormous responsibilities, but they must, of course, be guided by the governance signals that are given by me. But here's the thing about whether I'm going to evaluate the individual offer to the patient, or whether regional health companies are going to do it. They have to, and then we have to trust that they actually meet the needs of this patient group, either here or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1371	My question goes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘There are several decades since the first watercourse protection plans were adopted in Stortinget. The basis for protective decisions for the first protective plans was far worse than what we have today. Several municipalities now want to have the protection basis assessed in part of the watercourses included in protection plans 1 and 2. What advice will the Council of State give to the municipalities that now wish to re-assess the protection basis and the protection status of their watercourses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1385	The government will significantly increase renewable energy production. The development of more hydropower will be central in this context. It is important both for climate challenges and for the future generation of power and for ensuring economic growth and industrial development in rural areas. In the Government Declaration, we have said that the continued expansion of hydropower will take place both in the form of a better use of existing hydropower structures and through the prudent development of new projects. The size has, through six decisions, protected important national natural qualities and a representative sample of Norwegian watercourse nature. The final supplement was adopted by Stortinget through the protection of Wefsna in June 2009. It is true that the basis for the protection values is not as well documented in the oldest protective plans. Today, it is possible to deploy small power plants up to 1 MW in sheltered watercourses if the expansion does not conflict with the protection values. Further investigations could probably show that the protection interests are not as strong everywhere and that development projects of more than 1 MW can be carried out without weakening the protection values. In any case, the main emphasis of possible new developments will be on unprotected watercourses. At the end of the supplementation, Stortinget provided for the establishment of a test project with a comprehensive management of the Weefsnavastrestre, where it can be facilitated for smaller, gentle hydropower generation, released from the maximum limit of 1 MW. The Plan Project in Wefsna can provide us with important information on protection values and exploitation potential. I believe that there are still a number of good projects that can be expanded beyond these sheltered watercourses. Therefore, in my view, the action should focus primarily on the sound exploitation of the hydropower potential in unprotected watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1398	I thank you for the answer, and I thank you for a certain opening compared to what was the question. We know that today there will be far more gentle watercourse expansions than in the 1970s and 1980s, and it is an important moment to take this matter into account. In Finnmark, in the municipality of Kvänangen, they would like to consider lifting the protection basis for Badderelva, or getting a derogation from protection in Protection Plan 2 to build up small power, a potential of 35 GWh. In my own municipality, Hornindal municipality, the Hornindal watercourse was expanded in the 1960s – the Tussa extension. It was protected in the 1970s, protecting a watercourse that was built out. There are many and great paradoxes in that matter. My question to the Council of State is whether he understands the municipalities and those who want the protection of their watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1409	I both understand and think isolated also it is good that there is a local commitment to exploiting the potential to produce renewable energy. In any case, there will be a need for national broad guidelines and guidance that will contribute to the sum of development and the achievement of important natural values. There are processes in which Stortinget is well inside and well known. I think, as the representative Lødemel also points out, that we can gain experience now when we see the way to build up, which can provide a basis for assessing this differently from what has been done 20, 30, 40 years ago. This is precisely why this project in Wefsna is important, because then we can look at this in practice, whether it is possible to reconcile the interests of power generation, climate policy and protection better through a little new thinking in relation to what has been done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1416	I thank you for your answer. Power development is important. We see that not least now with the current power prices and challenges. On the other hand, the concession terms of many watercourses are the same. They must be reconsidered and there is a long queue for revision of the concession terms. In the government statement Soria Mora II, the government has promised to carry out a review of the regulatory framework for audit cases – that is, the rules for the modernisation of old concession conditions. Can the Council of State indicate what the department has done so far, and when is such a case submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1421	As far as the latter is concerned, a concrete decision has been made on the VWT, and then there is a process on what the representative addresses, both the general regulatory framework and the audit framework. At the same time, when audits and concession processes have been brought forward as important from the representative, I would like to take the opportunity to say that where we really now have the biggest challenge of realising small-scale power projects, we are facing networks. We have too bad a network in Norway. This is not least what we see in that part of the country from which the representative solder comes. And if we're to realize good small-scale projects in More and Romesdal and in Sogn and Fjordane, we need to build more networks. We have to accept power lines. We have to accept physical interventions that help to make it possible to connect to the web for these manufacturers. If not, we will continue to be where we are now – that potential small-scale projects cannot be realised because there is no capacity to escape production.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1432	‘The EU renewable directive can help Norway convert our high fossil energy consumption. Norway currently has a renewable share of 58,2. If the offshore sector is included in this calculation, the renewable share is about 10 percentage points lower. If Norway is to have its renewable share calculated in the same way as EU countries, it would mean that our renewable share will have to reach between 72.4 and 73.6. Will the government follow the EU model, or will the government try to negotiate Norway’s obligations in the renewable directive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1439	The work on the Renewable Directive now goes through the ordinary EEA channels, where the adaptation to Norway and Iceland will be a topic in the negotiations with the EU. I therefore ask for understanding that I cannot go into the strategy of the negotiations on the renewable directive at the time we are now. In this way, I will also refer to the presentation I had to the European Committee of the European Parliament in the Grand Duchy for a short time. After a thorough review of the Directive, it is our opinion that EFTA countries are not involved in the burden-sharing of the EU and that it is therefore not clear that the calculation method, or the EU model, should apply to countries other than EU countries. In 2005, which was the starting point for the calculation of the 2020 target, our renewable share, as mentioned, was 58,2 pst, well above the ceiling of 50 pst. in 2020, as specified in the EU method of calculation used for Sweden. We therefore need to find an alternative method to calculate targets for countries such as Norway and Iceland. We share the EU's ambitions for renewable energy. We have signaled to the Commission that the Directive is EEA-relevant. We have signaled that we are prepared to increase our renewable share beyond the level in 2005. We're going to do that in energy conversion. We're going to do that through energy efficiency improvement. We will do so by introducing a common certification market with Sweden from 2012. At the same time, I believe it is important that we find a balanced solution between the requirements and intentions of the directive and the situation of Norway as an energy producer. Two key objectives of the Directive are climate and security of supply considerations. Our energy situation, with a significantly higher renewable share than other countries, means that the Directive will not have an equivalent effect when we look at changes in the energy balance – energy use – in all other countries with which we might be compared. Compared to other European countries, we have far less opportunity to phase fossil energy into domestic use. We already have an electricity sector that is close to 100 pst. renewable. One quarter of Norway’s total final energy use is in the transport sector. In 2005, the share of renewable energy in this sector was only 1,5 pst. We have said in the processes of the European Union that we must take the target of 10 pst. renewable energy in transport in 2020. There is a significant challenge in a sector where energy use has increased significantly in recent years. But as I said, it's a process we're prepared to go into. Norway’s ambitions in climate and renewable policies are wider than the renewable share defined by the Renewable Directive. Much of our fossil energy consumption is related to the offshore sector, as the representative also mentioned. This sector is not covered by the Directive. This implies that measures such as: electrification or CO2 capture and storage does not increase our renewable share, even if it would reduce the negative impacts of our fossil energy use. We therefore need other instruments in addition to the renewable directive to reduce our climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1459	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am a little surprised that the Council of State does not seem to be willing to give a clear answer to what is Norway's position in the ongoing negotiations. Although the purpose of the renewable directive is for all countries to contribute – and the rich countries to do the most – it is for us on the outside to be heard as if government representatives in Brussels are arguing that Norway should get away cheaper. So to ask again, will the government follow the EU model, or will the government try to negotiate Norway's obligations in the renewable directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1466	I think the input question is a little bit special, so the term "negotiate down." What Norway is now doing is a quite similar process to that of the EU countries. We're in a process with the Commission, we're going through Norway's situation, and we're looking at how much of this commitment, the burden-sharing, is going to take between different European countries, Norway. There is nothing different from what Norway has done here than what individual EU countries have done in their Commission processes. So we have said – and that is possible I have to repeat again – that we should increase our share of renewable energy production. We have said that we should contribute to increasing production from a European perspective. We have said that we should go in and find a balanced solution that helps both the EU as a whole and the EU including the EEA to significantly increase renewable energy production in the future. So, based on what I said before, it's possible to draw a defensive conclusion, I totally disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1475	As you know, the government parties and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have entered into a climate settlement. As we see it, the EU renewable directive can help Norway convert our high fossil energy consumption, which today means that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are about three times higher than the global average. Does the Council agree with the Left that the Renewables Directive is a strong driver of climate policy in Norway? And does the Council agree that a high commitment will be good to reduce Norwegian climate emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1482	I think I might need some more clarification than what's possible in a minute here now. Firstly, fossil energy emissions are referred to in Norway. I believe that the representative also takes into account the calculation of emissions related to the petroleum activity in Norway that are not part of what is to be concluded around the renewable directive. Secondly, the question may also give the impression that the representative believes that the Renewables Directive defines the purely physical development activity in the different countries. The Renewables Directive is a directive related to the burden-sharing between the different countries. It will not explicitly define the level of renewable energy deployment in Norway in the future. The main challenges in building renewable energy in Norway are that we are willing to accept the consequences of building renewable energy: to withstand power lines in this country, and to tolerate the construction of small-scale power plants in different watercourses. Through that, we get the renewable share up. It is the real challenge of renewable energy in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1495	I have the following questions for the Minister of Research and Higher Education: «The government wants more students to study abroad in the future. This requires good and flexible funding schemes for foreign students. An uncertainty element for these would be whether changes in exchange rates are negative. The fund grants loans and grants on the basis of exchange rates calculated several months before payment takes place, and in today's troubled financial markets, the differences may be significant. What will the Council of State do to reduce this risk for the students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1504	Education support through the State Loan Fund for training for students abroad is provided in the form of loans and grants for living expenses, travel and school money. The school money support consists of a grant and a loan part. Under today's rules, the scholarship part of the school money support is adjusted in currency. The other parts of the aid amount are not subject to currency adjustment. It will be compensated for increased exchange rates if the currency has increased by more than 1 pst. in relation to the exchange rate of the Bank of Norway for the currency per year. 1 April. This measurement is made at the time when the school allowance is paid to each student. The school allowance through the Loan Fund is paid twice a year, harvest and spring, and currency adjustment can be made at both payment dates. In the past, i.e. up to and including the 2001-2002 training year, support for travel and living expenses was also adjusted in currency. There were separate rates of aid for living costs for each country based on the level of cost of living in the country concerned. This system was assessed as poorly transparent for the students and administratively demanding for the Loan Fund. In addition, the scheme did not necessarily cover the real cost of living in the country. The common cost standard for all countries was introduced in the 2002–2003 training year in the context of the Quality Reform, where the so-called basic support for the cost of living was introduced. Currency adjustment was continued only for the scholarship part of the school money support. A key reason for this was that the new common cost standard was based on the cost of living in Norway, which was objectively higher than in almost all other countries. The ratio of living costs in Norway to other countries has not changed fundamentally since the introduction of the common cost standard in 2002–2003. Norwegian students in most countries have good coverage of living expenses. I therefore do not recommend the reintroduction of currency adjustments to support for living costs and travel aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1515	I thank you for your answer. It is a fact that the government and the State Council themselves have pointed out that several Norwegian students have to volunteer to study abroad in the years to come, among other things. because we get a large increase in the number of young people who want to take higher education. Unlike Norway, many countries pay relatively large sums to study at different institutions, and the grant rate, which is thus adjusted in currency terms, is likely to represent for most people only a small proportion of actual study costs. I hope that the Council of State will see that at a time when the currency may fluctuate more than in a long time, this will create problems for foreign students. I have received information from several people saying that these differences actually amount to several thousand kroner per semester. So the council has to say something about what she's going to do with this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1524	Norwegian students have very good arrangements abroad, probably better than almost everyone else, and whether you adjust or not. So now you're adjusting the scholarship part. But that's not just what Warloe says, that the students "must complain" about studying abroad. We want students to study abroad. We encourage it, and fortunately we see happy increases in the number of foreign students, including the United States, who have had no strong increase in recent years. Now it seems to be going the right way. I don't think there's any point in doing this differently than it's done today. It is a simple, predictable and standardised solution both for the students and for the Loan Fund. And as I said, it's a more glamorous system than what you have in every other country, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1531	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is positive and important that several Norwegian young people travel abroad to study and gain experience from there. That's good for the nation. But it is precisely that today's system is not predictable for these students who are the challenge and the problem, and the starting point for my question. Let's say you get $100,000 paid in a year. It has to cover the actual costs of the country you are studying and of the institution you are studying, and so only less than a third of these costs are adjusted in currency. Then a big change in the currency will cancel out with several thousand dollars for the individual student. It is, in my view, unsustainable. So I would like to ask if the Council of State is willing to look at the payment frameworks for each individual student, because it is cheaper for Norway that these students study abroad than if we were to build study places here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1540	I think it's a very durable and quite good situation as it is today, both for the students and for the systems we have that are going to manage this. If you were to go into Warloe's thinking, you would have to charge the Loan Fund quite a lot of extra costs to manage any currency changes and adjustment of anything other than the grant share to the foreign exchange shares. Now you know what you get. You know what kind of cost coverage you get from the Loan Fund, and you've taken into account the currency fluctuations in the scholarship. In my opinion, that is enough. Of course, we are constantly working on increasing the basis of student support and getting a better student support scheme. I can assure the representative. It's a continuous work from me and my department, but it doesn't mean, as I see it, to charge us extra, bureaucratic administrative expenses so that the students are regulated even more of their costs according to the fluctuating currency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1545	Now we go to the 23 and 24 questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1552	‘Non-profit actors shall meet with respect and shall be guaranteed a stable and predictable framework. Many child-restraint children suffer when the institution they live with is threatened with closure or is actually abandoned. What will the Council of State do to prevent procurement legislation from imposing uncertainties and unnecessary burdens on children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1559	Caring for children is a major intervention in the lives of children and families. When this is done, it is particularly important that the offer we offer is good, so that children can experience security in everyday life. Frequent movements are unfortunate and a burden on children. In order to ensure the best possible stability for children in institutions, we have extended the length of the agreements concluded with child protection institutions, from previous 2+1+1 years to 4+1+1 years. This expansion has helped to increase the safety of more children in order to remain in the same location. As most people who have resided in a child protection institution have this for a shorter period, they will not feel uncertain about their stay or at least a lesser degree of uncertainty about such arrangements. There are also other factors that are taken into account in the selection of an institution upon the conclusion of a new contract: There is a need for young people to complete a treatment scheme. There is a need to maintain a good and stable professional environment. There are already established cooperation relations with municipal child protection and other disciplines, such as: paediatric psychiatry. It will be that some children come to an institution at the end of a contract period. In that case, it is particularly important to focus on the best interests of the child. I would therefore like to look at what opportunities we have to enter into agreements that ensure this in a better way than today. The aim of the Child Welfare Service is a good offer for the children. This is the primary consideration. To get this to work, there are in particular two things I'm concerned with: The first is that the funds allocated to the protection of children are well used and contribute to the best possible protection of children. The second is that our acquisitions are designed in such a way that institutions have to work for good quality and stretch to improve. It is always important to look at how child protection services can be improved. The means of child protection shall benefit children. Ideals that provide institutional facilities cannot continue regardless of the daily price they set. We are also looking at how to regulate the extraction of values from private child protection institutions. This is regulation that is important for both ideal and commercial actors. We have chosen to use the capacity of state institutions first. When we buy private spaces, the acquisition rounds are divided into two, where the ideals are given the opportunity first. This is an active political choice and an arrangement we will continue with. Further improvement of this scheme must be centred on the primary objective of maximising the provision of child protection for children. We're busy getting this done in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1593	Today, the Christian People's Party has asked several questions about the ideal activities in various areas related to children, young people and the elderly. The government answers, I experience, with very good words and many good intentions. The problem is that while we are discussing these good words and the good intentions, we feel that large players who have supplied quality in the market are being pushed out, not only by the public, but also by commercial actors. This is not in line with what political leadership in the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has talked about before. There has been a desire to maintain an ideological feature in the child protection sector. I'm just asking the Council of State directly: is it going to be able to see past these words and good intentions and soon come to action, because now the institutions die while we talk?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1600	That's not what the representative says. We're putting kids out all the time. But the arrangement is that you have to look at both quality and price. I will come back to that in a later question in the Questionnaire. But it's important that we have a system that's about us making the choice that we first choose the state institutions, and then in the choice between the ideals and the commercial ones we choose the ideals if the quality is good, and the price is acceptable. We have a good system of this through the rounds of both tenders and evaluation of the tenders for which it has been prepared. All the time, it's the best thing for kids to think about. We're not doing this to make the institutions themselves survive. We do this to give the children the best possible offer. But we are in the situation, as the representative well knows, that we have a prioritization of the ideals in front of the commercial ones so that you can deliver both good quality and have an acceptable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1607	I thank you again for the answer, although I'm not sure if those who live in these institutions will be equally satisfied. The red-greens have been concerned that Granny is not going to tender, but we still see that the children's and children's homes are on offer. The discussion on quality fully agrees with the Christian People's Party that we should take care of, and we should have regular checks that what is delivered is of good quality. But the Council of State also mentions the price here. When I hear about all these institutions being laid down, and about the turmoil that exists among the children who use these offers in the field of child protection, I have thought: What if it was my home, or whether it was the home of the Council of State that was to be offered – not because the quality was not good enough anymore, but because it costs a little more to live there – every four years, every six years, or quickly because you get into the end of a tendering period? This is a system that, in the view of the Christian People's Party, we cannot have. We must have good quality, but we cannot let all these institutions that now offer safe and good homes die off. Is this the intention of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1616	I do not know if the representative understood what I said in my first post in response to the question. So we have extended the length of the agreements concluded with the child protection institutions, just to avoid the children becoming too short and having to move to a steady state. We've expanded base years from two to four. That's what we think helps to give greater security, because it's the kids that's always the most important thing here. So even if an institution has not got a contract, we have concluded framework agreements with some institutions, which means that the institutions get paid for the children who live there. For us, it's always the most important thing to have the children in the center, it's the best of the children that is absolutely crucial to the offers you choose. And it does quite a good thing, not to say formidable, working around to get this done in a good way and to get the best possible placement of the children. Of course, then the offer of the non-profit organisations is a very important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1627	‘More tragic events have created a major focus on the lack of drug competence in the field of child protection. The child protection institution of the Salvation Army Styve Gard in Hordaland has over 20 years of experience in working with young people with drug problems. The activities are the only measure in the region with special competence in young people with serious drug problems. In December 2008, they lost a price-to-price tendering process, although the quality was assessed to be entirely in the top level. Do the Council of State agree that quality should be heavier than price?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1634	We are concerned that child protection has good competence in the areas for which it is needed, of course also in the area of drugs. The acquisition rounds take into account several factors. We rely on the availability of institutional services to be sufficiently differentiated so that children with varying needs can receive an offer adapted to them. Children's protection is a vulnerable group, which the representative is well aware of, and which we take into account. The quality of this service will therefore be of particular importance. The systems we have are built up to take care of this. At the same time, the appropriations for the protection of children shall be used so that we can help as many children as possible. When we buy institutional space from private individuals, we have our own acquisition rounds that are reserved for the ideal actors. In the procurement processes, providers are subject to a prior qualification before they can participate in the acquisition of institutional premises for children and young people. This prequalification shall ensure that the providers participating in the procurement rounds have a quality and safe environment for children and young people. The approved non-profit actors then offer and compete with each other in terms of both price and quality. The offers that come in are balanced against each other. At an equal price, the highest-quality offer is chosen – equivalently, if there are two ideal actors who are considered to have quality at the same level, the lowest-priced one will be preferred. Since they are the only buyers of institutional premises, they also have a good overview of what is a reasonable daily price at the different types of institutional premises. If the price of the non-profit actors is also considered unreasonable after a dialogue, they will not be awarded a contract. Thus, the quality of the services offered by the various ideal actors is largely the driving force behind the choice of measures. All actors must comply with the so-called quality requirements of the Child Protection Act before being able to offer a space to Bufetat. The Quality Regulation requires the institution's design both physically and materially, that it is located appropriately in relation to schools and leisure opportunities, and that employees have sufficient width and level of competence in relation to the target group they serve, to mention some of the requirements that are required. These are requirements imposed on all institutions, whether they are State owned, non-profit private or commercial. The provision of institutions in the field of child protection is developing because the need for children and young people in need of space in institutions is changing. It also means that institutions need to be converted. These are requirements for all institutions. So there are also a number of quality requirements. Price will therefore not only govern the choice of measures. At the same time, all actors, whether a state-owned or non-profit-making private institution, have to deal with the resources we spend on child protection for the benefit of children. Then we can't completely ignore the price to which each actor can deliver, provided that the quality is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1657	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for a thorough training on how the market works. It's interesting that an SV State Council drew that reasoning. I am pleased that the Council of State is busy and is thinking of getting the most out of the money. It's important. But today, the Christian People's Party has had a number of questions, simply because one sees that the priority that they have red-green, and the policy that they pursue, in our view, helps to make the overall efficiency and supply worse. Styve Gard, as we talk about in this case, won e.g. for the last year, an offer of three out of twelve places — only a minority of the places. It shows that even if the market works, as the Council of State is busy, and one gets a little bit, it's very difficult to move on, because one doesn't use the capacity. That's why they're in danger right now of having to lay down. I would like to ask the Council of State: how can one survive when one cannot use the capacity of the institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1671	I think the representative noticed that I also talked about the need for quality. We have a system that is quite correct based on the fact that tenders and predictable rounds are made. Of course you can have an important ideological debate on that. I am concerned that there is quality that is the starting point, but we also have to take account of price, if it is such that some prices are unfairly high compared to others. So the quality is for me the most important thing. The most important thing for me is also how the children feel, and what kind of arrangements they get at the institution they come to. It is clear that the institutions themselves must also be taken into account, but my primary concern is the child-restraint, and in this case the children who also have a drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1678	I'm very happy to right, because just in this specific case, as I said, they cut into the top level of quality. They had a really good offer. As the Council of State probably knows, they have a scheme where they also spend the night and are present with the children, creating a security where children and young people who are in a difficult drug situation, etc., get a fantastic quality offer. For me, it's simply that society has to have different elements. Maybe the most important basis is in the family, and then we have an important state as well. Overall, the voluntary sector is very important, especially when the family, the closest community, is not present. Then one has to see that the ideal sector, the voluntary sector, which has a burning desire to help those children and young people who have fallen out, has a self-esteem – that there is a shortage, that it contributes to improving quality, and that it creates a better supply and thus a better home for these children. Interestingly, the government is more busy fighting for full child-care coverage than finding a home for these children. I just want to ask: why would the institutions of non-profit organizations drop down before the public are in place? Why is that not an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1687	In fact, I believe that a good — and not to say full — childcare coverage is a very good starting point for prevention, even when the children get older. But here we are in a situation where I'm very clear that we prioritise the state institutions. After that, it is the ideal institutions, rather than the commercial ones – which are an important priority for the government. First of all, it's actually important for us that the quality holds out – and I'm not in doubt that this institution has a good quality – but also that we have a combination of price and quality. There are many good non-profit institutions that are involved here. I'm not going to go into the situation for the individual, but I just want to stress how much emphasis we initially put on good quality, but we also have to take into account the price of the services offered. For this reason, some framework agreements are concluded with some places, and others have more comprehensive agreements with their institutions. As I said, we're always trying to get this to the best of our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1692	Then we go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1699	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In the past, the undersigned has requested a better fire safety for farm use. In 2009, 445 agricultural industries were registered here in Norway. In several of these fires, different types of animals died. What will the Council of State do to reduce the number of farms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1708	It is worrying that the number of fires in agriculture has increased in recent years. In this sense, it's important that we have a discussion about it in today's Question Time. More fires in agricultural buildings are tragic because animals burn inside, both in terms of animal welfare and not least in terms of losses for the farmer. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has therefore implemented a number of measures in the 2000s. The Ministry has designed its own legislation on fire safety in animal husbandry. This legislation requires fire alarm systems in herds of more than 10 horses, 30 or more winter-fed sheep or goats, more than 30 cattle, 200 or more poultry, more than 10 sows, boars and/or gilts or 60 piglets. There are thus different criteria for setting requirements for fire alarm systems. In the case of ovine, caprine and porcine animals, the fire alarm requirement is not applicable where it is clearly unnecessary, it is also stated. In the light of public requirements and the efforts of the insurance industry, there has been a significant improvement in the number of fire alarm systems in agricultural buildings. It was installed in 2000 approx. 3 000 installations, and it is currently installed approx. 35000 installations — i.e. more than a tidal cycle of approximately 10 years. Electrical failure and incorrect use of electrical equipment is, in total, the most pronounced cause of fires in Norway. It also applies in agriculture. The Ministry has therefore introduced requirements for the technical control of electrical installations at least every three years in animal husbandry where fire alarm systems are also required. Building requirements have also been laid down to facilitate the evacuation of animals in the event of a fire. The agricultural quality system, KSL, has introduced fire prevention requirements. Despite all these measures, the results are not good enough. Based on the fact that accident statistics, including fire statistics, have not shown a decline in recent years, last year — in 2009 — I took the initiative of a broad review of health, environment and safety, HMS, in agriculture. A working group reviewed the topic and made recommendations in a report early in 2010. The group’s recommendations were summarised in an eight-point action package. One of the measures was the establishment of a national cooperation forum for HMS in agriculture. This was followed by the establishment of the Forum and the first meeting was held in autumn 2010. The Forum is managed by me and consists of members from the Norwegian Farmers' Association, Norwegian Farmers' Association, the Farmers' Service, the Foundation KSL Matmark, the Agricultural Advisory Service, the Insurance Industry, the Labour Inspectorate, the Food Authority and the Norwegian Farmers' Service. Agricultural fires are an important topic of discussion and reporting in the Forum. There are several actors who should and can contribute. It is important that organisations and the insurance industry also stimulate the holder to do the best possible job in this important area. I will closely monitor developments and, where appropriate, introduce new public requirements to prevent fires in agricultural buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1723	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. I guess I'm also partly satisfied with the answer. This is a topic that I raised for the first time on October 21st in 1998, and then I had it up again on March 10th this year. Because this is a very important topic, on which we must have a searchlight. As the Council of State says, it's done a lot, but it turns out the results aren't good enough. Unfortunately, the number of fires and animal tragedy has increased. Even though we have fewer farms that have animals, this is increasing. So it's clear that there are other things here. And instead of asking what the Council of State will contribute, I can ask the question, What has the Council of State done since March? Now I hear that there has been a meeting this fall, but there must be something more specific about it. Because I have been talking to some animal owners and owners of farm buildings since I asked this question and until now, and they have not received an enquiry. It goes on and on all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1734	The starting point is, of course, that it is the individual keeper — the individual holder in this case — who is responsible for ensuring fire safety in its operation. And here it's important that we work with attitudes. That is why we have put in place this sample, which has met, and which will work with the HMS on a broad basis, but where agricultural fires as mentioned should be an important topic of discussion and reporting. In addition, it is such that the legislation on fire safety in animal husbandry is complied with. It is controlled by the Food Authority, and the Food Authority cooperates with the local fire department in each municipality. I would like to stress that this is primarily about attitudes. The other thing is about public follow-up, and that's where I think we're on the right track. Then, of course, it has to give as a result a lower number of fires in the future. At least there's a hope of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1743	It's about animal welfare. It's been a lot about animal welfare in the last few days, the last few weeks and the last few months, and it's still going to. Among other things, it's been about fur animal nutrition, it's been about poultry transport, and now we're talking about fires in farm buildings with animal tragedy. And I can promise the Council of State and others that I'll follow up on this; when the next question in this genre comes, I won't say. I have, as I said, talked to many people who have not noticed that something has happened, and then my question is, When is something happening? For none of us wants it to burn, and at least we don't want animal tragedy in a fire. As I have said before, the economy in agriculture is like that, and then maybe this is something that the animals are saving money on. It is not enough to say that the individual farm or animal owner is responsible, there must be clear requirements for how this should work, so that we release animal tragedy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1752	As I said, there are clear requirements for when to have a fire alarm system. And as I said, there are some criteria for the number of animals of different species – different numbers for different species – and these of course have to be followed. It is the Food Authority that will follow up on the fact that it is in place. After all, it is important that we have good fire alarm systems around the farms. I believe, of course, that the increase in the number from 3,000 to 35 000 has been preventive. Then it's like the individual driver has to have good routines. It's also so that one actually has to train on evacuation. And there's a requirement for exits for animals in the cases that you have drifting, etc. So these are clear demands. It is also about the attitudes of the individual driver. Not least it is that in wintertime there is a greater risk of fire, and then there must be greater attention to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1766	‘The Court of Auditors’ report on the annual audit and control for the financial year 2009 is completed. The National Audit Office reiterates the failure of internal control and financial management procedures in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. What will the Council of State do to improve financial management, so that we do not see the same comments year after year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1773	I must admit that I am a little uncertain about what lies in the question from the representative, Tjäldal. He starts with the Riksaudition again pointing out the failure of internal control and procedures in the financial management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and I'm asked to answer what I'm going to do to improve financial management so that we don't see the same comments year after year. I must make it clear that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has not been criticised for the repeated failure of the Ministry's internal control and financial management procedures. It is unfortunate whether it should be wrongfully confirmed that the Riksrevision criticises the Ministry of Bad Internal Systems and Procedures when this is not the case. However, what the Riksrevision has addressed in Document 1 and, of course, I am responsible for, is a lack of information security management in the Ministry of the Interior in the underlying enterprises, a sad fact that the audit has also found, for the 2009 financial year, breaches of the procurement rules of Bioforsk, the follow-up to a project in Rein driftsverwaltungen, and that some incorrect information has been provided in the annual report to the State Agriculture Administration for 2009. The only one of these issues that the Riksrevision has commented on in the past is the acquisitions in Bioforsk. I therefore do not agree with the representative, Mr Tåldal, that the same comments on internal control and financial management in the department are going back year after year. That said, of course, the conditions indicated by the Riksrevision will be followed up in the Ministry’s ongoing governance dialogue with the underlying activities in question. I would also like to refer to my reply to the National Audit Office in Document 1 and to my letter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of 10 November 2010, explaining how the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will follow up the comments of the National Audit Office. I would also like to make it clear that of course I take criticism from the Riksaudition very seriously, and that matters from the Riksaudition have had, and will have, great attention and priority both in the department and in the underlying businesses for which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1786	When you claim that you have not received comments year after year on what levels in the department you get it, if you get the same questions at different levels in the department, it is now that the Council of State is responsible for its own department no matter what level it may be. The National Audit Board also points out that the State Council of Breck ordered the Rein driftsmandung to pay 2.54 million. kr to the Directorate for Nature Management for the project Production and Loss of Repurchase Operations, without providing any invoice or other documentation relating to the project. The cleaning company itself had to ask for it and tell me what the amount of the invoice would be. In addition, it turned out that the figures in the department were wrong, so the payment to the directorate was 718 000 kroner more expensive than it was supposed to be. The National Audit Office is strongly critical of the Ministry's management and follow-up of this matter. Why has the Council of State Breck lost control? And what action has the Council of State taken to close the deviations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1795	As I stressed in my first answer, it's not the department's internal operations it's about, it's going on in the underlying agencies. But it is right that the representative, Mr Tåldal, stresses that it is the responsibility of the Council of States. And I have also said that it is – let it be said. I have also accepted that there have been irregularities in the transfer of project funds to the project that the representative, Mr. Tåldal, pointed out for the reindeer management in 2009. I have told the Riksrevision that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has good dialogue with the Ministry of the Environment about the project. We ensure that the project is followed up by the reindeer management in the future, and that it is taken care of, so that one does not get such a situation in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1800	I'll follow the Council of States closely next year to see what the Riksrevision is going to say about exactly those points. But the Riksrevision has done other things: they have also completed the survey of the achievement and management of agriculture. The findings and the conclusion are once again depressing for the Council of State Breck. The conclusions of the National Audit Office are as follows: they are concerned because the achievement of the target is very poor, they also state that Breck must clarify what can be realistic goals, and that it must be verifiable. They also cast doubt on whether Breck can achieve its goal for organic milk and for cultural landscapes. This is just a bit of a lot of the findings the Riksrevision is critical to. So my question to the Council of State is: When will the Council of State Breck admit that he has lost control of his own department, and what will the prescription to the Council of State be to respond to the Riksrevision's strong criticism and finding?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1807	The representative Tjældal mentioned the Riksrevisionen case, which was dealt with in this room a short time ago. There was a wide-ranging debate on this issue, in which the representative also took part in the discussion. And it is true that the representative stresses: both the achievement of the goal and the result were criticised. I have answered that in connection with that debate. We are now working on a big message to ensure that this national audit report is followed up. It is the same in agriculture as in a good many other areas of society that there are strict target formulations. It is also the case that one is unable to achieve those agricultural objectives. I am concerned that we will have a target structure and control that will enable us to better report to the Stortinget, and that we can better achieve the objectives we set when we are dealing with mass destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1818	‘On the NRK news on 24 November, a report showed that the trenches of the Norwegian people who sacrificed their lives to the country of origin during the war are in danger of being exterminated. For foreign excavators, it has been agreed that these are under the protection of the Norwegian State and must be preserved without a time limit. The Norwegian State covers the costs of maintaining foreign trenches. Will the Council of State ensure the same protection for Norwegian war graves in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1825	Following orders from the Ministry of Defence, the Army's chief command was established in the autumn of 1946. This office was given the task of being responsible for cases involving the graves of armed Norwegian forces abroad and foreign declines in Norway. This central office was transferred to the Ministry of the Church in 1964 under the name of the War Grave Service. In the years following the war, the Central Office of Wargraves has as part of its mission to track down, identify and record fake Norwegian warriors abroad. 367 traps were identified. Of these, 296 were taken home and handed over to the survivors. The tombs of those who were not taken home were repaired and marked as official Norwegian trench supports. These tombs, located in about 30 different countries, are being held today by the War Tomb Service in cooperation with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission. According to statistics on the deaths of the war that were produced in 1946, more than 10,000 Northmen fell during World War II. But the numbers are not accurate. This will include, inter alia: that in all cases it cannot be determined with certainty whether the acts of war were the cause or a significant contribution to their death. Most of these 10,000 were buried in Norway during the war in cemeteries that the nearest survivors were responsible for and over. There is no central record or overview of the graves. But as I said, many lie in burial places with their neighbors. In some cases, the grave is more official in that communities have built a burial site that tells that there is someone who has fallen for Norway. In those cases where a more official monument has been erected on the grave, the local cemetery authority will normally care for the care of the grave. According to Section 27 of the Tomb Code, the cemeteries can save individual graves with burial memories when there are grounds for doing so. The Ministry has recommended that this access be used when Norwegian war trenches would otherwise be deleted. Furthermore, Section 18 of the Burial Act states that if possible, a memorial tomb of cultural historical value shall remain in the cemetery. There are good reasons to continue the system that has been in place for Norwegian excavators in Norway since the war, namely that there is a local responsibility that needs to be done with discretion, and that account is taken of the specificities of each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1836	It is clear that Section 27 on protection is not always used, and perhaps also relatively little is known, because the Progress Party has had some strong reactions after the news item at the NRK about Norwegian war graves. People react to the strange and inconsistent relationship that the scheme does not seem to include our own soldiers and homefront people who fell in battle for Norway in 1940 or later. They would like to fall far from home, so that the relatives have also not had the opportunity of tombing. That Norwegian trenches are in the process of being wiped out, while for example: German or English excavators are peaced forever, with care at the expense of the state, etc., representing clear discrimination. What will the Minister do to remedy this discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1843	As I said in my post, there are very many graves in Norway that are linked to deaths that occurred during World War II, and there are different categories of people who have fallen: Norwegian military, front fighters in German service, seafarers in the merchant fleet, etc. All of them, most of them are buried in family graves. There are the families, the survivors, who have rights to the tombs, and those who have to take responsibility for, and have the opportunity to decide whether or not to bury graves. So, as I said in my answer, there are some graves that are more officially marked as a war grave. There's the local authority that's responsible for that. I think it makes sense that it is still the case that the local authorities are responsible for that type of digging. Then it is probably possible to have more attention related to whether it is possible to save more of the tombs that are there. I don't know how to practice that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1852	So in the case of Norwegian trenches, it's the case that it's to be left to the family, and there's to be an application for a derogation, while foreign trenches are peaceful forever. The letter of consultation on changes to the Tombs Act and the Church Act also preserves only foreign excavators of war. He says, among other things. in new Section 23a, that foreign excavators are to be ‘managed with the dignity of their own species’. Furthermore, the consultation note states: ‘In order to ensure better and more uniform management in this area, the Ministry considers that liability needs to be regulated differently from today’s. The financial responsibility shall continue to lie with the State.’ [[...]] So the question of Norwegian trenches has not even been found worth being evaluated. It shall be left to its own application procedure all the way and shall be left to the family – who otherwise also resigns at one time or another. Should we not be able to manage these graves ‘with the dignity of their peculiarity’?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1866	It is true that there are self-regulations for the falsified from other countries that have been buried in Norway. It follows from international conventions. We are concerned that we should follow the conventions that give Norway a responsibility to take care of the graves, and they can be erased if that country agrees. Then I think the representative takes it a little easy that this is actually a family grave. It would be quite strange, I think, if the state were to go in and take over the rights and obligations that families have attached to their graves. I think it's important in the future that you respect the fact that it's the survivors who have the authority to decide how you want family graves to be taken care of. So I feel confident that there are very many good solutions where there are more official monuments. I see that they are also often used in connection with 17 May, where they are honoured by those who fell during the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1879	I have sent in the following questions: ‘The postal and telecommunications authorities have alerted Nav that they consider that they can freely request information about the telephone or Internet usage of the insured. State Secretary Gina Lund has stressed in the media that the Department is now assessing whether the provision of the Law on Social Security has produced ‘unintentional effects’. Can the Council of State assure the Storting that attitudes towards Nav privacy are reassuring, and what, if appropriate, does the Council of State do to raise awareness of Nav privacy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1888	Nav may not ‘freely require information on the telephone or Internet usage of insured persons’, as the question states. Nor has it been a practice. The State of employment and welfare has, in some cases, been responsible for: 15 cases requested information about the subscriber and who pays for the subscription. This has been considered to be justified, but only in cases where there is a reasonable suspicion of social security abuse, and only the specific monitoring units in Nav can request such information. Control units consist of persons with long experience or special qualifications for dealing with abuses. The home meal follows from § 21-4a. The rules came as a follow-up to abuse cases, and were adopted at Stortinget in January 2009. Similar rules previously existed in the Employment Act. In the event of the introduction of data storage obligations rules, the provisions of the Law on Credentials should be seen in the light of the general rules on disclosure of this type of information. The Ministry of Labour has therefore asked Nav so far not to use § 21-4(a) in the case of telephone and data traffic. As the manager of the people's rights funds, the Labour and Welfare Act is required to exercise control and detect unfair payments. The task requires access to relevant information. A reasonable division of labour between the State of Labour and welfare and the police presupposes that the department has its own home. It is worth noting that the legislative proposals that have been promoted over the years have received broad support from the police. I would like to stress that the Personal Information Act is central to Nav, which treats large amounts of sensitive personal data, among other things. on the health side. Privacy is an integral part of the establishment’s activities, is described in a circular and is included in the establishment training. The budget shall also provide for important control purposes. The Ministry is concerned that the monitoring needs of the establishment are carefully assessed against the needs of users for privacy. It is therefore appropriate to provide clear guidance on how and in what cases institutions can be used. The establishment has started such work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1907	The Council of State really didn't answer my question. We have conducted some simple searches on Google. It shows thousands of matches to articles about Nav and personal data on the way. You can just go in and search there -- the council can do it on its own. Examples are: ‘Some data security failures’, ‘Name has to be informed’, ‘Name has to be informed’, ‘Name took 11 journals’, which also deal with patient records, ‘No control of the Nav journals’, ‘Name has to be informed’, ‘Data surveillance’, and ‘Nam violates its own privacy policy’. The focus has also been on sending personal data by e-mail to systems that are not closed and processing personal data in open office environments. So my question to the Council of State is, isn't the Council of State worried about what's now coming out of leaks of that kind of information as well? I repeat the question, what should the Council of State do, if necessary, to raise awareness of the privacy of the Nav system?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1916	As I said in my reply to Skei Grande, I am concerned that Nav has good procedures for processing personal data. It is absolutely central if you are to have trust in Nav, who is responsible for so much personal data. I have not applied for Google, as the representative Skei Grande has, but I am absolutely sure it is correct that there have been errors in Nav's processing of personal data. This is why it is important to have an integrated relationship with privacy as an important part of the training activities that you have in the establishment and how you work with it. I am absolutely sure that Nav is concerned about it, and I am glad that the current situation that the question is about has already been addressed, in order to go through and ensure that you do not have rules that make you go beyond what is in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1923	We in the left disagreed with the law when it was given, not only at the time of the revision. We also believe that Nav with today's technology has too much opportunity to intervene in people's privacy with the wording contained in the legal text. We're going to get back to that. It's an important principle here. The Civil Ombudsman stated in the 2007 case, case No. 1682, that when Nav obtains a complete medical record in connection with the control of a doctor, this must be a decision against the patient that the patient can sue. So, no one can obtain your medical records to check your doctor without you knowing it. Then my question is, are the same principles applicable to traffic data? Does the principle apply when you have been checked? If someone then obtains all your traffic data to control and work with them, are you informed that all your traffic data has now been part of the public procedure? Or should it be secret that this monitoring is also being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1932	As I said in my reply, the intention of the law is to obtain information about who owns the subscription, and who pays for the subscription. So the intention is not to be able to go in and control traffic data. I do not share the view of Schei Grande of what is reality here, but I am concerned about specifying which access Nav should have to that type of data, and will, based on the preliminary work of the law, limit it to the possibility of controlling subscriptions, and who contributes to paying the invoice. I do not consider that a significant intervention that you have to notify about, as I know the matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1941	This question, from the representative of Hanne Thürmer to the Minister of Labour, will be raised by the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1944	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘Non-profit enterprises are often targeted at sections of the population who are either not receiving services or receive services that are not adequately adapted to their needs. The management centre in Rauland provides diagnostical and independent rehabilitation services for people with complex disorders and malfunctions. The aim of the stay is for the user to get to work. The centre has only got an agreement with 75 pst. capacity utilisation and are therefore threatened by decommissioning. What will the Council of State do to ensure this important offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1953	The representative takes up the situation at the Attack Centre in Rauland. Like several other rehabilitation institutions, the Athletic Centre has mainly funding from regional health enterprises. In addition, agreements have been concluded with both the State of Labour and Welfare and Health South-East through the grant scheme for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services, the scheme we call the Faster. The Ministry of Health and Health has informed me that there is a complaint process under way concerning the agreements for 2011 relating to the health sector. Health south-east may disclose that the entity has made available 32.5 million. kr to Rauland in 2010. That's 1 million. kr more than in 2009. Through the establishment of the Raskere scheme back in 2007, the government has strengthened its efforts towards the sick. In this context, contracts have been concluded with rehabilitation establishments and other suppliers throughout the country. Labour-oriented rehabilitation is purchased on the basis of several criteria: type of rehabilitation, quality, price, etc. The Raskere system is relatively new, and there has been varying amounts of funding allocated to labour-oriented rehabilitation, which has meant that the tendering periods have been short. There have also been variations in the use of the Employment and Welfare Act in the framework agreements concluded with Rauland. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare is currently reviewing the framework conditions for the purchase of labour-oriented rehabilitation services with a view to increasing predictability. The representative argues in his question that the Attractive Centre in Rauland has not obtained full-service contracts and that the Centre is threatened with closure. It is unclear to me whether the representative here is aiming for the agreement with the Working and Welfare Act within the Swifter scheme or whether it is aimed at the agreements concluded with the regional health company. However, I would like to make it clear that the agreement concluded with the Working and Welfare Act relating to the scheme hastens back is only a minor part of Rauland's capacity. The accelerated return and job-oriented rehabilitation system is an important part of the government’s efforts to include more people in the labour market. The scheme is therefore to continue in 2011 at about the same level as in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1970	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Among other things, she points. to this which has to do with predictability, with long enough contractual periods, in order to maintain the capacity and competence of many of these ideal actors. I would like to ask the Council of State about the following: it is shown that ideal actors are protected in the bidding rounds within the drug field and psychiatric health protection. Why can't Health South-East also do the same in the rehabilitation field, precisely in order to take care of both competence and capacity, and not least in order to avoid such ideal actors having problems with survival, simply?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1979	It is true, as the representative Bekkewld says, that it is possible to protect non-governmental organisations – to issue tenders only for non-governmental organisations. It is also possible, as the representative says, to enter into longer agreements than has often been seen in those types of businesses. I think it's important to work on that, and that's exactly why the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has now started work on looking at the framework conditions. But to reserve the right of non-profit organisations to all agreements in the field of rehabilitation, it must be carefully assessed, because I think there are a number of commercial actors, for whom representatives in this room have great sympathy, who also have a good offer in the field of rehabilitation. It won't be that simple, and I don't think it would be desirable to cut out all private people in such a work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1984	I thank you again for the answer. You're pointing to something that's quite right – it's probably a bit different in terms of ideal and private actors in this area. Our focus has been primarily on the ideal actors, as we see in many contexts losing both in relation to tendering roles and in that they are unable to maintain the capacity they have had, which in turn goes beyond the users who use it. This is really about appreciating the ideal actors, and I'm very concerned about that valuation, that we're saying something about the value and intrinsic value of these ideal actors. And I don't understand why the government is not as concerned about it, and why not the government – which now has a majority and which can sort this out quite quickly if they want to – do what they can for these institutions that are now in danger of being laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1991	It might have been interesting to ask a question back to the representative Bekkevold, for which of the private ones is it that you do not want to use it in the rehabilitation field? It might have been interesting to hear that, because I understand that there are many private people who are also being mentioned in this room when we are talking about the award of contracts. Then I fully agree with the representative Bekkevold that there are very many voluntary and non-profit organisations doing an excellent job. They have long gone ahead – making new offers and in many ways attracting the public – when new measures are created. This is why we are concerned that voluntary organisations should have a place in the rehabilitation field/rest field, and insofar as the measures in the field of work-oriented rehabilitation in the future are concerned. It's just about finding the right balance, and I don't think any of us really want many of the private people who are there to have agreements in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e1998	The President would point out that the Questionnaire should only be used to ask questions to the State Councils. Questions 23 and 24 have already been answered, according to question 17. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-01.ana.ud62e2015	There is no record. Are there any of the two who are in the Chamber who are demanding the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
