ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e68	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative of Asbjørn Sjøthun is dead, 82 years old. The storkman, the Nordist, the local politician, the farmer, the forest manager, the sportsman, the humorist, the visa singer and a large and warm man have disappeared with the sudden disappearance of Asbjørn Seethun. Asbjørn Sjøthun sat on the Stortinget for the Troms and Labour Party for 20 years. He was respected and well liked in all the camps. The right-wing man and Countess Svein Ludvigsen said to the locals that Asbjørn Sjøthun was a large tree that was torn in the Tromsskogen, and that there would be an open clearing where he stood. And former Prime Minister Odvar Nordli tells the newspaper Nordlys that Asbjørn Sjøthun was «a strong spokesman for his part of the country» and «a man with a great deal of warmth of heart». In 1969, Asbjørn Sjøthun was elected to Stortinget. He sat on the Agriculture Committee for five periods and was the chairman, or chairman, of the last period. He was also a member of the Nordic Council in the years he spent on Stortinget. Asbjørn Sjøthun was a very active athlete and was among others one of the founders of the Stortinget Sports team. He was also known for his quick reply, as in the bathroom here on Stortinget, after a long run, where a co-representative says, "Now you have to take a nap, Asbjørn!" Then he quickly replies, "Don't worry about my stomach. You know it's just my back you'll see in the loop!" Asbjørn Sjøthun was an as great and good teller as he was a visionary. He loved to sing Evert Taube and Dan Andersson. Otherwise he was an outdoorsman, and skiing and elk dog breeding were close to his heart. In Balsfjord he was a member of municipal government and chairmanship for many years. He was also rapporteur for two periods. Asbjørn Sjøthun drove his own farm and was a good spokesperson for the peasant industry at Stortinget. He had a lot of commitment to small crews, and not least to the fishermen. It may not have been strange that after his first election on Karlsøy, the vote was close to 90 pst. in the municipality of the Workers' Party. Asbjørn Sjøthun was politically active until the last. He had a high status in Balsfjord, where he also put big tracks behind him. The establishment of the grain silo at Bergnes and the particle board factory in Sørreisa are some of Asbjørn Sjøthun's important local political victories. We would like to thank Asbjørn Seethun for his great social commitment and an unusually long working day – and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e94	The representative, Sylvi Graham, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e97	On behalf of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Sylvi Graham, Bent Höie, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, I am delighted to make a proposal on alternative turns.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e102	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e116	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e125	First, I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on a well-formed daughter. Flowers are on their way from the Right, so the council will be happy until they arrive. Of course, quality flowers come from us. The proposal therefore proposes legislative amendments to implement Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on credit agreements for consumers and repealing Council Directive 87/102/EEC. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Credit Purchases Act and the Financial Contracts Act Chapter 3 be coordinated by the repeal of the Credit Purchases Act and the extension of the scope of the Financial Contracts Act, so that this law also applies to credit agreements currently governed by the Credit Purchases Act. Some amendments to the Financial Contracts Act and other laws not related to the implementation of the Consumer Credit Directive are also proposed. The legislative changes are largely supported by both the financial industry and consumer organisations and representatives, and a unanimous committee notes with satisfaction that, for example: The Consumer Council brings forward a number of positive aspects in order to strengthen the position of consumers. The introduction of verbal deterrence obligations to borrowers in addition to the continuation of written deterrence requirements. This implies the obligation to explain to borrowers, the oral dissociation of guarantors, the law enforcement of credit rating requirements for borrowers, the obligation to disclose credit marketing, the maintenance of the credit purchase law § 8, the introduction of signature as a requirement for validity, which can stop unfortunate loan products that free up impulse actions in different parts of life, e.g. fast loans in text messages, a reasonable level of cash inflows from larger credit purchases that can dampen credit uptake on impulse. Several penalties are also introduced for the supervisory bodies in the form of daily fines, etc. The six-week alert requirement for interest rate changes is continued. It is important for consumers to be able to exchange banks and forecast interest costs. It is simply for the Committee to support the Government's proposals in the main and to record the broad agreement it has reached. In the hearing, the Consumer Council pointed out a number of things that I should briefly like to say. They pointed out the need to legislate for bailiffs on the grounds that questions can be asked about whether the bailiffs realise the consequences of lodging bail. The Consumer Council also wants the obligation to carry out credit ratings to be reflected in the legal text and, for educational reasons, to legalise them. In addition, the Consumer Council also wants specific contractual sanctions to be imposed in the event of breach of the obligation to provide clarification and the rating obligation. However, the majority of the Committee considers that the Norwegian rules provide for a comprehensive regulation of the guarantee agreements as a whole and that sanctions are already provided for by the applicable contractual rules. The Right Party and the Progressive Party consider, on its side, that it is right to codify consumers' sanctioning possibilities also in respect of breach of the obligation to explain and the rating obligation, as the minority considers that the contract law § 36 and general bond law are not necessarily well known among consumers, and are open to assessment of the legal obligation to provide information to depositors in the future. The only major real disagreement relates to the entry into force of the law. The Joint Financial Industry Organisation — not the Main Financial Industry Organisation, as noted by an incurrency, it is the old name before the merger of the Administrations of the Reserve Bank Association and the FNH — pointed out a number of challenges that the majority has chosen not to emphasise, while the minority, the Right and the Advance Party, consider that the preparation of computer programs, quality and security controls of the new system will later enter into force, which neither the consumer organisations have opposed. But the majority would therefore like the law to be brought into force in order to ensure that the deadline for the implementation of the Directive is complied with. But it could be fine if the Council of State in its statement clarified what is the reason why it is not possible to postpone the implementation for the sake of private interests, which has significant challenges in implementing this law, if we are to take them into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e140	Today is actually a big day for Norwegian consumers. By implementing Directive 2008/48/EC on credit agreements for consumers, the Government proposes a number of measures that will lead to a more responsible lending practice in Norwegian banks and credit institutions. A number of measures will be put in place to improve consumer attitudes to make sensible and well-predicted choices in areas such as loans and credit. Such measures will, of course, help to prevent consumers from facing debt problems that they cannot deal with. We know that a lot of people end up in what we call poverty traps if they can't handle their debt obligations. So it must be right to say that this case is part of the government's efforts against poverty. In any case, the obligation to provide information is now extended before a credit agreement can be signed. Consumers are given a thorough explanation before credit is drawn up, and it is also an obligation for credit institutions to make a credit rating of their customers before credit is granted. This is very good, so that consumers don't go into debt when they should probably not. In addition, of course, central and well-established consumer protection rules in the field of credit will be continued. As the case-speaker had in mind, there is a great deal of political consensus in this matter. That's good. In addition, there is considerable support from both the financial industry and consumer organisations. However, there are two issues which distinguish the Committee. There is one liability for penalties in the event of a breach of the rating obligation and of the obligation to explain, and the other is the issue of when the law applies. When it comes to sanctioning rules, we think that these possibilities already follow current contract law rules. I also show that the Ministry has made a thorough assessment of this issue. The danger is that additional statutory provisions of this type of sanction may help undermine the system and knowledge of general relaxation rules. Special sanctioning rules could have adverse consequences by creating a lack of clarity in relation to other legislation where separate rules have not been introduced. When it comes to the date of entry into force of the laws, I point out that the deadline for transposition of the directive is that the legislative changes should come into force by 11 June 2010. The working party sticks to this and cannot see that this will create specific problems for the financial industries. Saga has been known for a very long time. Furthermore, this matter is of great importance to Norwegian consumers. Therefore, it is important to implement this law as soon as possible. And the Labour Party, the SV and the Senter Party believe that the deadline for implementation is justifiable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e155	The new Financial Contracts Act will give consumers greater security for their credit purchases and loans and will give financial institutions and so-called credit intermediaries clearer laws on what to comply with before the conclusion of a contract with the customer. This includes, inter alia, the verbal dissociation obligation in conversations with borrowers and guarantors, as well as the written dissociation obligation currently in force. There is a law-enforcement of credit rating, a signature requirement for loan applications and sanctioning possibilities for the supervisory bodies plus several things. As a natural strengthening of consumer rights, the Progress Party and the Right consider it appropriate to clarify consumer rights when banks have not fulfilled their obligation to provide information to the borrower. The legislative proposal shall clarify the responsibility between the professional parties, which are the banks and the credit intermediaries, and the amateur party, which is the borrower, or the consumer. This will clarify, and strengthen the banks and anyone who brokers credit, to take care of extra good. We saw the need for this in the financial crisis. During and after the financial crisis, there was broad agreement on the measures to be taken. In this case, we see a slippage in relation to this. The Parties to the Judicial Committee underline the importance of the consumer being aware of his rights and the strengthening of such information obligations for credit intermediaries. When the credit intermediaries sell smart savings products with one hand and lend in the same company to finance the smart savings products with the other, it is quite clear that the sellers of such products have good knowledge that consumers know their rights if required information is not given to the borrower. It's a sharpening that's good for everyone, and I'm surprised that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party don't see the obvious preventive advantage this gives. In connection with this bill, we believe that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are also failing in another very important area. The bill came from the Ministry of Justice on 15 January this year. The deadline for the implementation of the banks and for all large and small credit intermediaries expires on 11 June 2010. It's not long. I have even worked for several years with technical requirements specifications for the IT industry, and I know very well that the planning and especially testing of computer systems is crucial for the safety of such systems. The Party of Advances and the Right in this case points out that credit institutions deal specifically with important information on people’s income, wealth, credit rating, birth and person number, default data, amortisation agreements, forced sales, etc. If this information comes to light, it is very critical. But then the Storting must also see the seriousness of the fact that this must not get the wrong way, and in particular the government parties must see the exact fact. In this case, no time is allowed for the proper testing and processing of personal sensitive information about Norwegian consumers. It is from my point of view, and I have experience with the theme, an expression of a lack of competence and a lack of the precautionary principle. Time has to be given to ensure proper treatment. Several banks have approached several members of the Committee on precisely this and have clearly stated that there is not enough time for such completely mandatory testing, simply because in today's day-to-day data life there are complex systems and time-consuming testing for possible errors. It is the view of the Progress Party that privacy should be strengthened. Personal information, which in this case concerns economics, must be kept as strictly secret as possible, and then the Government should have respected this and postponed the deadline for implementation until 1 January 2011. According to the Svenska Bankföreningen, as stated in the comments, it is done in Sweden. This consideration should also have been highly respected here in Norway, and the same date, 1 January 2011, should have been set as the date of entry into force here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e175	I note that there is broad support from the Committee for the proposals contained in the proposal. I'm very happy about that. There are important issues, which have been raised by many, relating to the protection of consumers. The amendments adopted today partly result from the implementation of the Consumer Credit Directive in Norwegian law by 11 June 2010. These changes strengthen consumer rights in a matter of practical importance. The rules provide a good framework for credit agreements. On the one hand, the rules entail the continuation of the applicable legal provisions of the Financial Contracts Act and the Credit Purchases Act; on the other hand, they involve innovations, such as: the statutory nature of a rating obligation and an explanation obligation in credit conditions. Furthermore, the legislative changes contribute to a simpler regulatory framework by regulating credit agreements in future under the Financial Contracts Act since the repeal of the Credit Purchases Act. It is clear from the recommendation that the Consumer Council believes that there is a need to legalise the obligation to provide explanations even in terms of security. This issue has been discussed in the proposition, where the Government's view is that today's rules provide a satisfactory regulation of the bail agreements. I note that the majority of the Committee agrees with this. I would like to point out that the guarantee is not regulated by the Consumer Credit Directive, and that the issue of bail is therefore mainly outside the law here. There is disagreement within the Committee as to whether further sanctions should be imposed for breaches of the obligation of explanation and credit rating. In this context, the central feature of the Government is that contractual sanctions already exist that can be applied in such cases and that further legislative action will help undermine the general rules on sanctions and raise doubts as to what is the case in cases where such specific sanctions are not laid down. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with this. Furthermore, there are differing views within the Committee on the entry into force of the legislative amendments. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the entry into force of the legislative amendments by 11 June 2010, which is the deadline for implementation of the Consumer Credit Directive. The financial industry has long known that there would be changes to the legal rules on credit agreements resulting from the Directive and should be expected to adapt to the changes by the date of entry into force. I show you, among other things: until the financial industry was represented in the sample of NOU 2009:11, credit agreements. The committee presented proposals for both legislative and regulatory changes. Since the implementation of a total harmonisation directive is involved, there was no reason to expect specific changes in the further examination of the case. With regard specifically to the regulatory changes, I note that the minority in the committee refers to the fact that it is only after the law has been passed that the department will design regulations. It is correct that the rules will be finally laid down following the adoption of the law. However, the work on regulatory changes has been known for a long time to the financial industry. In addition to the fact that the regulatory proposal has been consulted as part of NOU 2009:11, I mention that in the proposal, which was submitted on 15 January this year, there were clear signals as to what the regulatory changes would be about. In addition, I consider it appropriate to mention that, following the hearing of the Committee on the matter, the Ministry responded to a request from the financial industry to obtain transparency in the regulations it intends to lay down, with a view to facilitating the practical implementation of the amendments as best as possible. As a result, since the end of March this year, the financial industry has been familiar with the content of the next regulation. I therefore believe that the Ministry has made it possible for the financial industry to comply with the regulatory changes by 11 June 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e195	This is a very important law, we all agree on that. The more important it is that the law works as it should. And then my question is, is the Council of State not at all concerned about the bank's ability to implement these changes? This is the only point they've picked up with quite a lot of force. And I expect that since they asked to come to the committee, and have been on everything that has been, it's not just clean and cut latency from the banks' side, but simply that they're concerned about the privacy aspects and the possibilities of doing this in a good way. So my question is, is the Council of State not at all concerned that the banks are not going to get this done?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e200	With the process we have had, both as referenced in my article on the NOU that was made, and when, at my discretion, one was given good insight into what was required to implement this directive, a total harmonisation directive, in which both the content and the framework of regulations were well known – and not least in view of the fact that the department chose to provide the transparency that I also referred to in my article, after the consultation here in the United Kingdom in March – I believe that it has now received sufficient information to enable it to be implemented and put into effect in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e205	The banking industry cannot adapt its systems on the basis of a debate and dialogue between the ministry and the financial industry. You can start preparing yourself, you can start projecting, but it's only when you have a decision on a system, made by law and regulations, that you can finally adapt systems, test them and test them. And that's this fact that they've had too short a time to the last, which is critical, as I see it. My question really concerns future issues, or the preventive: Will the Minister of Justice take more account of this in future matters? I see that as necessary, so that we get a clarification of the importance of keeping important information safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e212	This is a lot of the same thing that I was asked for in the reply from the representative André Oktay Dahl. But let me say it this way: you always set up assessments of the implementation of both laws and regulations against the possibility of being able to implement it in a sensible way; I always want to have those assessments with me in the future. But there are many competing aspects to it. Firstly, I think it is important to keep the deadline and to implement it on the basis of the deadline. So at the same time, you have the ability to cancel something out. And I believe that through the process that you have, you know that you just have the finance industry within the NOU – and follow it closely – and have even given insights from March about the regulations that will come, you have prepared the basis for a good implementation, also practical, by the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e218	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3036]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e236	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e243	The Judicial Committee has had a proposal for a representative from a number of representatives of the Right to amend § 3-9 on compensation for damages, where the proposers propose that the compensation be fixed at a lump sum – unless it is obvious that it is in the interests of the injured party to determine the full or partial amount of the compensation at the end of the term. I expect the proposers to take the floor in the debate, but it has been shown that Norwegian patients' compensation in these cases has sometimes been curtailed – or decided to pay the compensation in future payments – because it has been assumed that the patient has a short life expectancy. This is clearly unreasonable, and a minority in the Committee, consisting of the members of the Progress Party and the Right, have joined the proposal by the proposers, while the majority, which I also expect to make their views known, want to maintain the rules as they are today, but that the Committee on Compensation for Damage should be informed about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e250	I point out that several right-wing proposers propose to amend the Law of 13 June 1969 No. 26 on compensation for damages, § 3-9 on compensation for meninges. The proposal re-examines the second paragraph, in which the mein replacement is to be fixed at a single entry sum – unless it is in the interest of the injured party to fix the compensation in whole or in part at the end of the period. Now it is the case in today's law that the general rule is that compensation should be fixed at one-off sum. This is a general rule and covers all types of replacement. Particular reasons may be given for the right to determine in whole or in part the amount of compensation. But then it is possible to convert term amounts into one-time payments, if one party asks for this or requires it. So the main principle is a one-time substitute. There is little case-law on what is involved in the ‘specific causes’. It could mean that this practice is little used. Otherwise, I refer to the Council of State's letter to the Committee, where the Ministry concludes that issues relating to the future determination of myeloid replacement should be considered by the Personal Indemnity Selection, and that the Council of State will make this selection known with its point of view and problem-setting in the proposal. These are some of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e261	The Patient Compensation Scheme was established in due time to ensure that patients who have suffered injury after failure of the healthcare system are properly compensated. Substitution is a compensation for loss of life and, as a general rule, the patient receives a one-off payment. The exemption provision is forward payment if there are specific reasons. Through the media, it has been announced that Norwegian patients’ compensation has in some cases adopted term payments of men’s replacement because patients have a short life expectancy. In one case, it has been found that the State would measure but compensation based on how long a cancer 32-year-old had to live. But the state made the decision right before he died, and gave him full compensation. Another case that became known through the VG on 5 December 2008 concerns cancer, Tommy Berg, who was awarded compensation from the State due to serious maltreatment in the public health sector. The doctors overlooked his cancer for 14 months, and delayed cancer diagnosis resulted in cancer spread and severe, incurable disease. The expert opinion of Norwegian patients’ compensation was that the diagnosis could have been made as early as 2006. Berg was awarded NOK 900000 in compensation, but the NPE rarely used a rule of exception in the law, and Berg was paid only a fifth on the grounds that he was about to die. Such treatment appears to be very unreasonable. It is totally incomprehensible that the severity of the injury is used as an argument to reduce the sum of the claims resulting from a public health damage. That may not have been the intention of the lawmaker. I agree with Mr. Karin Andersen from SV in what she said to the VG in connection with this matter: ‘The Minister of Health and the Government must address this matter and establish ethics and human considerations as governing when the State is to act. Such bulky and hearty handling must be stopped.» Karin Andersen then expressed the need for clearer guidelines. Neither the representative Andersen nor the government has taken hold of this. The right, therefore, promoted the proposal we have before us today, which is an addition to sections 3 to 9: «Memorandum compensation shall be fixed as a lump sum, unless it is evident that it is in the interests of the injured party to fix monetary compensation in full or in part at a forward rate.» I am surprised that the government parties do not support the Right proposal, a proposal that would just clarify. There might be reason to ask where it has been because of ethics and the human considerations that Andersen of SV asked for. The government parties now seem clearly that the law is okay as it is, and in the setting they only repeat what is stated in § 3-9 today, and then they add: ‘The question of the future fixing of compensation should be considered by the Personal Indemnity Selection and should indicate that the Council of State, by letter to the Committee, states that it intends to make this selection aware of the problems of the proposal and the views attached thereto.’ [[...]] [[...]] This is a disclaimer of political responsibility. The government parties and the government will not address such an important fundamental question, but push it over to the bureaucracy. It's incomprehensible, and it's disappointing. There are clearly interpretation possibilities and ambiguities in today's legislation. The decision of NPE concerning Tommy Berg was given by Jusprofessor Fleischer, Norway's leading expert on compensation law, who stated in connection with the Berg case that the meaning of § 3-9 is the way the payment is to be made, not to reduce the total compensation. Right-wing agreement. As legislators, we have a responsibility to ensure that the law is as clear as possible, and that it cannot be interpreted in such a way that it affects the individual, as it has done in this case. Now we have the opportunity to correct this injustice. It's too late for Tommy Berg, he's dead. But that's an important principle question because the Berg case will be able to give precedent for similar matters in the future. As I said, it seems very unreasonable that the severity of the injury is used as an argument for shortening the amount of the men's compensation. I believe it is an unworthy and unacceptable treatment. Of course, the person who has been compensated should have the freedom to assess for himself how this compensation should be used, and a future non-payment is considered relevant only if this is clearly in the patient's interest. Therefore, in our view, it should not be possible to shorten the amount of compensation in order to limit the costs of healthcare in cases where the patient has a short life span. The parties to the Government continue to have the opportunity to stand up and defend the rights of individuals against the State and the system by voting in favour of the Right’s proposal. If they disagree, it could be seen that they defend the system in front of the individual and that they consider such shortening of the compensation to be acceptable for those who have expected a short life span due to serious maltreatment in the public health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e304	I note that there are different views in the Committee on the draft representative law. My view is set out in my letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is attached to the Committee's position on the matter. The Bill of Representatives proposes to amend Section 3-9 of the Compensation Act to determine the amount of compensation of a lump sum or to the amount of the term in the case of men’s compensation. The general rule under the applicable law is that the compensation is determined as a lump sum. However, in certain cases, the court may decide that compensation shall be fixed as an advance. Appointment amounts may be fixed if the court finds that there are specific reasons for doing so. Following the proposal for a representative law, compensation shall only be fixed in futures if ‘this is manifestly in the interests of the injured party’. The issue raised in the draft representative law relates to tragic events for individuals. This makes it possible for arguments against the bill of representation to be considered to be of little consideration. After hearing the representative, Mr Sjeli, you get an absolute impression of it. However, I would like to stress that any compensation system must take account of the functioning, justification and coherence of the rules. It will then be seen that the legislation in force provides ample room for determining the compensation of the injured person in the light of the beneficial victim. Nevertheless, many situations may appear unreasonable. Men's replacement is a substitute for non-economic disadvantages. However, the compensation shall compensate for the loss or injury caused by the loss or injury resulting from the reduction in the personal perversion of the victim. The replacement is a personal benefit. It's the one who's injured, who's entitled to men's compensation. No compensation may be claimed from the family unless the seas have suffered damage satisfying the conditions for such compensation. On the other hand, in the circumstances, compensation may be provided for the loss of dependants and compensation for non-economic losses in the form of upliftment to the survivors. Therefore, when assessing whether there are particular reasons for determining the amount of men’s compensation instead of a one-off amount, the possibility for the injured party to recover the compensation is central. Setting dates in which the injured party has a short life expectancy will be able to ensure that the compensation is not provided for a longer period than that in which it may benefit the injured party. As I have pointed out in my letter to the Committee, it is clear that, despite the short life expectancy, the victim may need to get the men's allowance as a one-off payment to compensate for the loss of life in the time that remains. I have a great deal of understanding for that. Where the injured party needs a lump sum for such purposes, this may be taken into account in assessing whether there are particular reasons for allowing the claim to be determined as future benefits. In other words, under the applicable law, we have a system that allows the injured party to determine the compensation in the light of his own needs during the period in question. Then, as mentioned in the letter, a law committee, the Personal Claims Compensation Committee, is being set up, which is currently carrying out a more general investigation into questions of measurement in Norwegian replacement law. The issue raised by the draft representative law should, in my view, be considered in the context of the other proposals of the committee. It is not in my opinion to push the matter over to the bureaucracy, as the representative Sjöli described it as. I will ensure that the Committee on Compensation for Damage is made aware of the issue in the proposal and the views there, and will also add that I have a great deal of understanding of many of the arguments put forward in relation to the thinking behind the proposal for a representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e319	The President has reason to believe that the representative, Mr Sjöli, may wish to make the proposal that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e322	Yes, President, I am promoting that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e327	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has thus taken up the proposal she referred to in her statement. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3046]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e345	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, who is speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mrs Klinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e356	I would like briefly, on behalf of the Committee, to address what is at issue. The question raised is whether to introduce a law requiring chemical castration to be introduced as a criminal reaction for use in cases where someone is convicted of sexual assault against children. In addition, a question has been raised about introducing a law on compulsory treatment of pedophiles. The proposers thus want a chemical castration introduced as a criminal reaction that may come in addition to ordinary prison sentences. The majority in the committee believe that targeted efforts are important to prevent relapses among the pedophiliacs. One also suggests that it is possible to judge for custody in cases of high risk of apprehension, and the majority would like psychotherapeutic treatment for offenders to be a more targeted part of the soning. The majority in the Committee refers to the Institute for Clinical Sexology and Therapy, which has highlighted that psychotherapy has a good effect on relapses in sentibilities and pedophilia. Then it is a challenge that chemical castration can prevent the implementation of successful psychotherapy, and that there is no guarantee against relapse. The majority indicate that hormonal treatment is currently being banned as a voluntary scheme for pedophiliacs. There is a basis for believing that the consent of the individual pedophile offender is an important requirement for the treatment to have the desired effect. In contrast, coercion can be counterproductive. It is so important that the visions have fundamental self-confidence and willingness to change in order to avoid new abuses. The government is busy securing children and society in the best possible way. Let's do that. by facilitating good Community solutions in the provision of municipal services. There are many good reasons for strengthening prevention in all areas in all sectors. The government has introduced an increased criminal framework for child abuse through the new criminal law passed by the Stortinget. The government has also given the police and charged a strong image to intervene at an early stage, thus averting child abuse. The majority of the Committee will not agree with the submission of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e373	Sexual assault on children is one of the worst forms of crime in existence. Of course, we have to do everything we can to prevent such cruel abuse, while at the same time helping children and young people who have been abused to move on in life. In parallel with this, the offenders must be severely punished in accordance with the seriousness of the crime, and society must provide treatment to avoid new abuses. The Progress Party proposes that the chemical castration of pedophiles should be introduced as a forced criminal response. This can be seen by many as a suitable punishment for such a cruel act. But will the punishment work? The Institute for Clinical Sexology and Therapy took part in the hearing of the Judicial Committee on the legislative proposal. According to the management of the Institute, chemical castration is a very old-fashioned form of treatment, with a time-limited effect. Men who resort to child abuse usually have problems with empathy and relationships with others. This does not disappear with hormonal therapy, but with psychotherapy. The problem for pedophiles is not in the genital organ, but in the head. According to the Institute, in the worst cases, the attacker may be more dangerous from chemical castration if the hormone treatment is not followed up by psychotherapy. In addons, the effect can be easily covered with anabolic steroids. Thus, judging an attacker for forced chemical castration has little in common as long as the attacker is not motivated for treatment. Chemical castration is today a voluntary scheme offered in Trondheim prison, preferably with psychotherapy. Such a voluntary scheme is positive if the motivation for getting rid of the behaviour is present. According to psychologist and senior researcher Nøttestad at Trondheim prison, the rate of relapse is between 7 and 10 pst. That means that if the proposals of the Progress Party are adopted, the entire 90 pst will be adopted. be condemned chemical castration without any need for it. I am responding to the comments of the Progress Party on the matter. They refer to an article in the A magazine and refer to the pedophilia condemned ‘Simen’ as a truth witness that chemical castration is the solution to avoid new abuses. If political parties are to refer to newspaper articles to support their political position, they should not just pick individual statements that support their views, as the Progress Party has done. It's unprofessional. ‘Simen’ says in the same article: ‘Cognitive therapy is the best way to treat attackers, in which way they learn how much they create.’ It is also part of the story that «Simen» cut out the chemical castration after two years. He believes he found out that it was in his head there was something wrong, and that it had nothing to do with sexual appetite. In the same article, Ada Sofie Austegard also says that she doesn't believe that castration provides any guarantee against new abuse because it also has to do with what's going on between the ears of the pedophile. If the implication of chemical castration had been the solution to how we should combat sexual abuse against children, the Workers' Party would, of course, have supported the proposal. However, recommendations and experiences suggest that forced hormonal treatment will not have the desired effect, rather on the contrary. It is therefore close to believing that the Progress Party is proposing this in order to gnaw up under some currents in society that believe that punishment should be something more than the detention and prevention of new criminal acts. In the view of the Labour Party, punishment shall not act as punishment – it is not a legal society worthy. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that society should carry out effective punishments. That is why we do not support the proposal. Finally, I would like to ask the Progress Party when they are going to propose the introduction of compulsory chemical castration of all those convicted of rape. Because, during the budgetary procedure in the Stortinget on 3 December last year, Per Sandberg said that it is very likely that the Progress Party will promote a proposal on the chemical castration of all those convicted of rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e397	There's a lot you could comment on in the last article. One has to expect, when one accuses the proposers of being unprofessional, that one can manage to stay within what is a decent form of debate here in Stortinget. Unfortunately, over the past year, we have seen a number of issues that show that our children are vulnerable to meet us adults. The so-called handkerchief, which has not yet been brought to justice, shows what some can do in an open and free society. In Lower Rome-rich district court, a man was sentenced to four years in prison for assaulting several minor girls earlier this year. We've also seen the rollout of what's going on in the Catholic Church all over the world. This shows that society needs to get strong instruments against such completely unacceptable behavior from adults towards our children, in which we all need to be involved in protecting, and in which we are so happy. That's why the Progress Party is the party here in Stortinget that dares to think new, and that dares to initiate processes that allow us to put in place schemes that help protect the children from those who commit such abuses. The fact is, as authority and the prison system, it sends out invaders from prison and back into society. All studies show that there is a relatively high relapse rate among those convicted of child abuse. Today, there is no forced treatment while in adoration. It's supposed to be voluntary. The rapporteur said – which is the majority's opinion, and which I believe most people react very strongly to – that it is important that the pedophilia judge has basic self-esteem about his problems before entering into treatment. If we are to demand this from a person who has this kind of desire, who may still want to keep these desires, and who is in a position to make up for what he himself believes he is innocently convicted of – it is the few of the perpetrators who admit in a court case that this is something they have been in – that the majority's position in this room becomes relatively ridiculous. It's often we big-time representatives get feedback from most people when we face issues in public. There are very few other things I have received so many enquiries about from ordinary people – people who have experienced abuse, and who say that they fully agree with this. Starting trials and actively using chemical castration will help us to get even more evidence on how this works. We have received reports from Denmark that show good experience. Although Torve begins to twist the content of the article in the A magazine in every possible direction, it is understood that the experiences of Trondheim prison and St. Olav's hospital are also positive. As long as we do not have life sentences in Norway, we should be willing to use new, modern instruments to protect society from this kind of behaviour. I deeply regret that the majority will not be involved in this, and will ask the question: Who is now taking responsibility for those who go out into society and reintroduce themselves to our children? I refer to the proposal that the Advance Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e416	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e419	The right absolutely shares the desire of both the proposers and the other justice committee to provide security for our children. As we all understand, parents are most afraid that something will happen to our children. As politicians, we need to do our utmost to create security for everyone in society. We need to punish the abuses that are taking place, and we need to prevent new abuses from happening. So the previous speaker's closing question I answer by saying that there is a concern that we all share, and we're all doing our utmost to ensure that there are no repetitions in terms of abuse against our children. On the contrary, the Right wishes to use all available means to prevent sexual abuse against children. But then we have to use the tools that we're sure of very likely to work, and not engage in experimentation with things that we're assuming may work. Because considerable doubt has been raised from the professional team about forced chemical castration at all according to purpose. Here it is not about drying, but it is about believing in and following the professional advice that you get from those who have more knowledge of the matter than we do. And what we hear in the committee is that positive results have been shown from therapy and from voluntary hormonal treatment of pedophilia judges. The Right believes that it is important to follow that track to a greater extent than today. Therefore, it is also alarming that the Government does not ensure that the treatment system for those pedophiles seeking voluntary treatment has sufficient capacity. From our side, we then point to Tuesday's news headlines that more and more pedophiles who want help do not get it, they end up on a waiting list because there is no treatment capacity in the system. It's alarming, and something has to be done quickly here. From the Right, we are clear that forced chemical treatment also raises problematic issues in relation to human rights. And we're also going to focus on that. That is why the Right cannot support this proposal. But we refer to the proposals that the Right in the past has promoted to combat child abuse. It is a proposal which is reflected in the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e432	It is reprehensible that some adult people expose children to serious abuses, traumas and aftereffects in order to satisfy their own sexual needs. It's harmful for the children, for their families, and not very rarely for the perpetrator's own family. We have to do everything we can to protect the children from this type of people. That is how far we agree with the proposers. However, SV believes that it must also be that the actions we are initiating must be correct, appropriate and in accordance with fundamental principles of legal certainty. There must be a certain degree of success in the actions we are taking. Hormonal treatment, or so-called chemical castration, is currently a voluntary scheme that can help some attackers who want to avoid committing new abuses. But such treatment is not a guarantee against abuse. Introducing compulsory hormonal treatment is not a consistent measure to prevent new abuses. The effect of the medicine used can be reversed by the user administering anabolic steroids to the body. Jim Aage Nutttestad is a psychologist and senior researcher at the Brøset Center of Competence. He says that: ‘departure offenders have a relapse rate of between 7 and 10 per cent. And if you're going to give everyone compulsory treatment, at least 90% will get drugs without needing it." He asks: ‘How can we manage to pick out those who do not have a relapse?’ So this has been professionally assessed slightly accurate. Forced chemical castration can provide false security and become a sleep cushion for society and a dangerous trail for children. In order to prevent new abuses, the professional community is concerned that the offenders need cognitive treatment, such as conversational therapy and individual therapy. Through such treatment, the attacker learns how to avoid sexual thoughts about children or other victims, and prevents these thoughts from developing into action. The respondent shall learn to be empathetic with the victim. He must understand the harm he causes to children and the child’s family. This was also the view of the 1997 Sex Crime Commission, which considered that treatment based on coercion would not be suitable for providing good long-term results. I tend to listen to Ada Sofie Austegard, and she is against this treatment. The proposal also has a strong principle in that a proposal to judge someone for medication by coercion. Proposals for the coercive medication of offenders have been dealt with twice before by the Judicial Committee, where all parties – except the Advance Party – stress that the coercive medication of offenders cannot be accepted as part of a criminal reaction, but only as a necessary and proper part of a treatment situation. The Swedish Government and the Swedish Government are serious about the abuse of children. That is why we have gone to step up the penalties for sexual offences. The Government has now made proposals to ensure that this tightening up will take effect as soon as possible. We have also made it criminal to agree to meet children with plans for sexual assault. We're open to several new thoughts that work, and that's what's the prerequisite. Unfortunately, however, we cannot see that the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting are working – on the contrary. I am very pleased that all parties in the committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, believe that these proposals must be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e464	Being subjected to sexual assault is one of the worst things a child can experience. I've previously called rape for near-drap. When children experience this, it is often committed by people they trust — yes, even by people who have the task and function of protecting their children. No matter who is the perpetrator: this is gross crime, which is to be severely punished. When society has used its means of power to punish offenders and condemn them to prison sentences, and in between it happens that once they have committed their punishment, the individual once again commits such an assault on children, it is evil and tragic. And we have to ask ourselves, is there anything we could have done differently? Can we do anything else? First, let me emphasize that if there is a nearby risk of a person resuming sexual assault, he or she may be sentenced to custody. It is therefore not right when the members of the Committee from the Progress Party in the vote say that the government parties have no solutions for how society should protect itself from repeated abuses against minors. Contention is an indefinite penalty to prevent the repetition of criminal offences and which is used when time-limits are not sufficient to protect society. Unfortunately, it is likely that some are sentenced to time-limited punishments, and then to commit further abuses. In Norway, however, it is generally agreed that it is the detention that is the punishment. That's the starting point. This starting point is easy to agree with the theory. I believe that the vast majority of the Committee share that view. However, it is difficult to accept such a starting point when former offenders abuse the chance they get, and commit new abuses against children after a closed settlement. That means that a child is exposed to something that we as a society should have managed to protect it from. However, hormonal treatment under compulsion does not appear to be the solution. I want to warn you very strongly against the attitude you preach, that you say no to this proposal, you are responsible for everything that happens, and almost is against doing anything in order to prevent new abuses. That's not how it is. I agree with the majority of the Committee that the implementation of hormonal treatment under coercion will often have the opposite effect of what the proposers want – it will not create guarantees against new abuses – on the contrary. Such coercive treatment will create a lower treatment climate for those exposed to it. We ensure our children the best by laying the foundations for good and long-term results, not short-term solutions. Good long-term results are only obtained when the subject of treatment understands why such treatment is necessary and accepts it. The effect of chemical treatment of sexual appetite can be easily bypassed by the administration of testosterone to the body, which is available for example: in anabolic steroids. I therefore welcome the majority's statement that they want the psychotherapeutic treatment of offenders to be a more focused part of the settlement. And we will cooperate with the health authorities, follow the trial project with voluntary hormonal treatment at the Bruset, to see if this offer should be extended. The project will also provide valuable experience in making a voluntary treatment offer for those convicted of sexual abuse. I would also like to point out that in addition to this type of action, it is important to stick to many of the measures that Stortinget has unanimously agreed to, and that in these days actually contributes to violence and abuse – especially against women and children – are issues we see increasing in the police and prosecution authorities. That's good. This suggests that children’s homes, police teams, the extension of victims’ compensation, a new care for victims, i.e. in the sense that new criminal procedural rules have been put in place – and that assistance is being developed, in fact, helps more children dare to say from and feel comfortable to say from – that not only do we get a look at the punishment, but we also get a look at how we can help the child out of the situation that it is in, and prevent new abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e479	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e482	Let me first clarify that all the parties agree with the bet on children's homes. When the majority does not want to be involved in initiating or judging chemical castration, there is one thing. But we also have another proposal in which we want treatment to be given. It's also the majority vote down, and it's quite incomprehensible that you don't want to use such an instrument. But in this debate there have been quite a number of hair-removing statements, in my opinion. Among the statements is that it has been claimed that the pedophile – i.e. a person who has abused his trust so much – also has the right to have a sex life and have the opportunity to go to the ‘Czech’ when he releases his inclinations. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e492	These are statements that are quite strange to me, and I also hear that the questioner does not address those statements to anyone. In the government’s efforts to prevent and prevent child abuse, this aspect is entirely secondary. There's one aspect that counts, and it's of course that assault is not committed, and you have to do what you can to prevent repetition. If it has to push on the quality of life to overlap in all kinds of directions, e.g. That we are deprived of freedom for a long time, then we must choose to sacrifice that consideration. That is, the burden must be borne by perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e497	It is said that chemical castration will not give any guarantee against relapse and new abuse. It has also been said that appropriate action should be taken to prevent abuse. The Council of State was involved in one of the right measures, namely detention — that they are in custody. The second is, of course, the death penalty, which not very many agree that we should have in Norway, fortunately. Giving a guarantee against assault is a little bit interesting, because chemical castration gives as I said no guarantee, but I still think it helps. Can the Councils provide an example of a treatment that provides a guarantee against new abuses?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e502	It had to be custody that he is locked up, because we rarely have examples of new abuses being committed when the detention centre is functioning. But with all human behavior, when it comes to being able to adopt laws and rules, it's hard to figure out something that gives us 100 pst. guarantee. It is primarily the lock-in and the storage that must then apply. Then I would like to challenge the Progress Party a little, when you get so heavily professionally fired at the proposal that you come up with, which is actually going to undermine what is of constructive treatment. It must be a matter of concern for the proposers to destroy a type of treatment that is seen to have a good effect on too many people. I am pleased that the other parties just emphasise the fact that in many of the cases, good treatment outside the hospital – and also in prison – depends very much on the fact that the person being treated is on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e509	Sometimes it is necessary to dry up clear political choices and to dry up on making stronger priorities in criminal law. We have heard that there is a queue of pedophiles who want treatment, but do not receive it. We also know that treatment for this type of disorder takes a very long time, up to four to five years before it is certain that this could have been helpful to the pedophile. Will the Council of State contribute to large budgetary increases in this area, so that all those who wish to receive such treatment will receive it as quickly as they ask?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e516	I fully agree that one must dry up to make clear political choices in many of these matters. I believe that the government has done it over and over again, whether it's the construction of children's houses, questions about a whole new criminal procedure with regard to the victims, or the reverse of the violent alarm – I can mention many of the measures where we've been very clear. But that doesn't mean that you have to make poor choices – obviously poor choices – and that there's so much to it. We must not become so blind in this field that when professionals and others say that this is actually not a trick, we should just because it is clear and clear and maybe get headlines out in the newspapers, yet go for it. That's not the government's position. The children are too important for that. When it comes to budgetary matters, we get back to it when the budgets are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e523	The council asked what could be a guarantee against a new infringement, and he replied that custody could be an approximate guarantee. Are we to interpret this as a proposal from the Council of State that convicted pedophiles can be more effectively sentenced to detention, when the Council of State clearly states in the debate today that this can be a guarantee against new abuses?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e528	This is nothing new in Norwegian criminal proceedings. The Party has also participated in the adoption of the rules relating to the time-indeterminate responses — detention — and there are criteria to be judged. If there is a risk of recurrence of criminal offences, it is an instrument that should and should be used. When I'm challenged by what gives almost absolute security, it's quite obvious that custody is very close to that. It is the case with all the difficult criminal law and with the criminal policy that if we want to defend ourselves fully, not only in relation to child abuse, but also in relation to other criminal acts, we have to find the balance between how much force we are going to use and what kind of detention we are going to use. We have a tradition in Norway to use criminal responses that will end at some point, and that people will go out again. It is also true that there is little crime in Norway that criminal law is based on a humane approach. I have faith in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e535	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e540	The Progress Party has launched this proposal in sympathy with the children and parents and families who experience some of the worst experiences. There are a number of interesting things that are being said in this debate. In the hearing, the Institute of Clinical Sexology and Therapy states that chemical castration can prevent successful psychotherapy. Yes, it might be, but there's one point of view from one instance. Are we going to put the whole fate of this proposal in one instance's opinion? It is also said by the representative Torve of the Judicial Committee that it is unprofessional to listen to one source, and she refers to the article in the Evening Post. I feel that the Workers' Party here makes this case a successful professional struggle for the psychologists alone, without being willing to apply the methods that are likely to help avoid any new abuse. So it's like chemical castration is no guarantee. No, it is clear that it is not, but there is nothing else that is a clear guarantee, except to keep the attackers locked in. And then I refer to the last line change. It's the combination of therapy and hormone treatment, which works both in the head and physically, on the body, we think it's worth getting started to avoid new abuses. I have to say that there is an urgent need to remind this room – and then I think of the representatives of the government parties in the Justice Committee – that there is great reason to believe that the child suffers more than the offender after an assault. And to say that the Progress Party is promoting the proposal because of the underlying ‘currents in society’ – quote from this debate – that the representative Torve performs to join in – is, in my view, directly unprofessional. There is evidence of a lack of respect for the children who experience this. I could, for example, claimed that the representative of Torves is concerned with the pure performance of the government parties against allowing the Advance Party to win in this matter. I won't, I'll stay away from it. In full respect for the children who suffer from adult abuse, I think we should rise above the unprofessional criticism of the representative of Torve and the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e551	I see that the Progress Party is engaged. That's good. But the only guarantee we can have that children will not be subjected to abuse is that having children was forbidden if, as a parent, you had not submitted to psychiatric evaluation before you had the child, for 80 pst. of the abuses against children, committed by parents or some other children know, which we do not know who is – there may be many years to come. It would probably be very accurate, but there wouldn't be anyone for that. I think that the representative Torve was at the heart of things when it was about those who are so far minors, or who are adults, because when we are going to prevent sexual abuse against minors or others, it is primarily about a lack of attitudes in society. I'll call it neanderthal macro attitudes, which exist in various environments. A lot of the people you refer to as the "most people" who rage when it says something in the papers are exactly the same people who blame the girl when she gets attacked, who don't warn when they see a child starting to become sexually provocative, but call it cheap and say it has strange parents – and don't do anything. The strongest voices in this type of debate are the most desperately weak when it comes to debates on women's vision, abuses of power against women and the offer of vulnerable people, or they come after when other proposals are being made, in order to justify themselves against criticism. I think it's strange to see that it's not the same genuine commitment when it comes to all the other areas that are about preventing child abuse – that's just what you get a huge exposure to. It's kind of about "us against smoke", and then it's presented as if parties that disagree with this are not engaged. I'm on the board for something called FMSO, and you talk like it's as far as you know that the trade unions think this is not accurate. That is why the majority opposes the idea that it will not work. Because this isn't about sex, it's about how some people don't deal with other adults. What I think the representative Torve was up to was that if you're going to believe that these people are going to relate to another adult person sexually, it's not fun to cut off what can make it work between man and woman at least. Some people have called for rage in this kind of debate, and they have to let themselves be torn away in rage. If there's something I know that won't work, then it is. To put it this way, if it had been my subjective feelings that were to determine the reaction to my attacker, I think I could have got membership of a party that fortunately we no longer see in this country. This is a good example of the fact that all emotional outbursts you may have because you have experienced something yourself, not necessarily alone, are suitable as a background for making political decisions. And you should look at some statements of support: who is behind them, on various blogs, etc.? Those who support this proposal stand for a view of humanity, a view of value and a society that I do not believe the Progress Party will be familiar with supporting either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e568	I would first recommend to all those who have had posts in this matter today, as soon as possible to go through their posts, because I think the vast majority of those who have made contributions to this proposal are on the collision course with themselves. Among other things, I record that in his post, Mr. Werp first agreed that chemical castration benefits only it is voluntary, because then in the next round he said chemical castration does not benefit if it becomes mandatory. What is at stake is that all batches today agree that chemical castration can be a measure that helps to reduce child abuse. The difference between the Progress Party and all the other parties is that the Progress Party wants it to be compulsory, that it be coerced, while the other parties still want to go the voluntary way. If not, I have misunderstood the setting. To Torve and others who have said that there is no guarantee, where the argument against this proposal is that chemical castration is no guarantee: no, but then they should also go against therapy, because there is no guarantee either. If the argument is that we can't go for this type of action because it's not 100 pst. certainly and there is no guarantee, then we have to stop adopting measures, as long as there is no guarantee. We haven't left out either one or the other. We even have a suggestion that we will use more therapy. We want to make it mandatory, but you don't want to. There are many who meet themselves at the door of this debate. Then it is certainly so – I hear also now the representative Oktay Dahl say so – that we have promoted the proposal because it is 'us against slander', that it is 'human vision' that governs these proposals. No, that's our commitment! It is our belief that the more actions we have seen together, the more children can be rescued from new abuses. It has nothing to do with human vision. Then the representative Torve comes and says – otherwise mentioned earlier – that there are underlying ‘flows’ that make us promote this proposal. No, it's because there are dozens of children who are being assaulted time and time again. Then I almost have to look at the attitudes, but it seems that I have to report to a new three-minute post in that way if I am to be told something about it. It also has something to do with the signals we're sending, but also with what others are working on that kind of assault case, sending signals, to get an understanding of how serious it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e585	After this debate, there is at least no doubt that we all want to do what is in our power to combat sexual abuse against children. The Council of State referred to many measures that have already been implemented, and I also fully support the High Representative, who points out that when pedophiles want to receive treatment, they must have it, so as to avoid new abuses. What's been a little interesting to me is the experience of indignification by the debaters of the Progress Party when you're confronted with your political statements, which I think is a failure of argument, and it's not right to call it indecent, even if you don't like it. But it may be indecent to claim in the debate here today that someone here defends the pedophile's right to exercise his sexuality, as Kielland Asmyhr said in a succession. There were many of us who reacted, and I take that very far from it, and I'm sure I brought all the debaters into it. The Labour Party would support this proposal if we thought it had any effect. However, the professional recommendations and experience of those who have been through this type of treatment suggest that there is no treatment that will work — perhaps on the contrary: You can become more dangerous if you are forced to treatment. I take that kind of professional recommendation in the greatest seriousness. The representative Octay Dahl had something very interesting to say, and I support his reasoning far on the way. I am afraid that the kind of measures now proposed with compulsory chemical castration as punishment, in the worst case, can lead to more hate crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e596	Now we actually got a new example that the opponents of the proposal meet themselves at the door. You have to listen to the technical advice, because it certainly does not do the Progress Party, even though we have a much broader basis for assessing our proposal. It is one body, and it is the professional body to which the representative Torve now refers, who believes that the proposals of the Progress Party on forced chemical castration will make the attacker more dangerous. Then I think the Labour Party and the representative Torve should say that we do not want any voluntary treatment, either, we cannot allow any pedophile to receive voluntary treatment, because then they become more dangerous – if you want to be consistent in your opinions. The point is, as the Council of State has been in and as it is said here, that there are many measures. No one has criticised the Government for all the measures it has taken. We support them. So we think it's possible to use even more measures. In the hall, it is entirely agreed that those who commit sexual assault on children, whether serious or not, as someone suggests, should be taken. Then we will have more measures to build on to meet the challenges. Some of the attitudes are also created here. When proposers are accused of underlying ‘flows’, ‘us against smoke’, ‘human vision’, etc. In order to promote this proposal, the majority of us in this Chamber are creating some positions that are attenuating what we all agree on, namely that more measures, and stringent measures, must be taken to prevent child abuse. I put Torve's statement about the underlying "flows" against what has actually come from the lawyer to the pocketman. In the case of the handkerchief, who has admitted 16 cases of child abuse, the lawyer says that the handkerchief is finished if he is judged only for the 16 cases he has recognised, because he has been in custody for two years. For 16 assaults, then, lawyers believe that two years is enough! It is the same position that is sent out here when you reject the proposal and use that kind of argument against the proposers. Nothing is absolutely certain. We have no measures that provide guarantees, but I believe that through several measures, overall, we can approach a guarantee against further child abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e609	If we are to try to sum up this debate and debate towards the debate at this big meeting, the conclusion is that we are equidistant. We are equidistant in introducing new criminal responses to this type of crime. For the majority of this will dare not use new types of instruments, because some people disagree with them. So you use a clinic that has the business idea of selling therapy to pedophilia judges, as evidence that you should not use chemical castration. It is clear that the Progress Party cannot pursue a criminal policy based on the fact that some people disagree with some of the instruments we propose. That is when a kind of criminal law debate based on the principle of consensus is introduced. What I find strange in this case is that the majority will not be involved in imposing mandatory treatment on those convicted of pedophilia either. It is clear that responsibility for letting people out again in society must be taken if you do not want to participate in such a simple measure that if you are convicted of this, you should also be judged to be a therapist. That the person who claims he is innocently convicted, and who for various reasons does not realize the problem he has, should choose whether he wants treatment or not, is quite special. Then the Council of State points out that we have the detention centre and that everyone agrees on it. That's good. But it's not like everyone who is convicted of this is being sentenced to custody. If it had been like this, we would have been on our way for a while. Is it the case that the State Council of Storberget will now ask the courts to make greater use of the detention centre with regard to this type of case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e620	The representative Tove-Lise Torve has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e623	Voluntary hormonal treatment, what is also called chemical castration, combined with psychotherapy, works. It's professional evidence that it works. That is why we are in the Labour Party for it. But there are many professional arguments that suggest that forced chemical castration does not work. I asked in my main post some questions to the Progress Party, and especially to Per Sandberg. Because the Progress Party has such great faith in forced chemical castration, I wonder when the proposal to propose it also comes to other rapists, as was referred to in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e630	I would just like to stress from the right that we believe that the Progress Party is serious about its proposal. It's just that the Right doesn't agree with that. We know it won't work, because this isn't about sex. It's about what's inside your head, not between your legs, on the one that's crossing. We fully respect that you mean it, but the majority is against it. On the issue of treatment, it was revealed in the media yesterday how weak the provision of treatment for pedophiles is. So the right thing to ask the Council of State is to consider initiating a little more of what to do with drug control programmes, and taking a look at England, where, therefore, there are far more tools to respond to offenders. There is a separate tracking system, where pedophiles are followed up in society by their own police teams to which they have to report. For example, as part of the penalty, they get: not access to the PC, because he can sit at home in his own living room and use the PC to give up, then commit an assault afterwards. Taking a look at experiences that have been done in England with these kinds of things can be a good idea. The proposal on chemical castration is not adopted. But I think there's a reason to calm down the debate a little bit, because everyone here in the room is actually concerned about this. The motives for each individual should not be rejected. I will take the floor of the rapporteurs. Here it's a real commitment. At the same time, however, it must be allowed to state that aggression and agitation are not only present at one level, but are equally impatient to look at the practice of confidentiality rules, the reasons why people do not warn, and that there is a similar commitment to creating better offers for vulnerable people. There might not be as many people who would disagree with those issues. But I think you're going to use your speaking time a little bit more for the kind of questions, where not everyone disagrees, simply because I think it's useful that the country's second largest party – than for so long – spends its time spreading good attitudes in society about what's not about, just because our main challenge is that 80 pst. by the abuses committed by someone the children know, and that 80 pst. by the rapes against adults are committed by someone known to the rapist. Then, in the public debate – all of them – we have to take the responsibility of being the leader of this country, whether in opposition or in government, and conduct real debates beyond focusing on one piece that you might disagree about, and which probably would not have the greatest effect if you had adopted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e639	I could have actually joined the last speaker's posts. For the greatest damage we can do in a field where we really want to make an effort – and that is the cross-political agreement, it has been for several years, and there has also been cross-political agreement on the measures relating to child abuse, and then you can fight about the pace, etc. – are in many ways to make one case and say that if you are not here, you are not in favour of the fight against abuse. Then we blind ourselves. If there is one area of criminal policy that deserves the help of the measures, then I have to regret the fact that it is preventing child abuse. That is why I would very much warn against making this debate a 'take it or leave it' when it comes to this proposal. It is not like this, as has been said, that if we say for good reason that we disagree with the content of the proposal, we will be given full responsibility for those who are released from prison after child abuse. Then we could just as easily turn the whole thing around and say that what about all those who are exposed to this type of treatment – they are released from prison, this treatment is compulsorily administered, so it all bypasses the use of e.g. testosterone and do not receive a treatment course that is constructive and then commits abuse – is it that the proposers are responsible for it? I don't want to claim it. But it is dangerous to make such a political debate out of such an important topic. That is why I will continue to encourage us to have proposals, many good ones. I have co-authored a book called the Bear's Sleep, which is about this. I will also, of course, continue to strengthen the part of the settlement process that helps to provide treatment – not just here, but also on other aspects – whether it is drug addiction, psychiatric disorders or whatever it may be, so that we get less crime by release. There's a lot left, and we're dependent on good debates around it. When it comes to the question of custody, as the representative of Kielland Asmyhr asked me, I have to say that the terms of the penal code and the criminal law on custody are very fine terms that I have no reason to do anything about politically, because I believe these are good terms. My appeal to the courts, the police and all the actors out there is, in fact, that those rules should be applied. Of course, there are important aspects to legal certainty, but there is also an important consideration, in particular, to prevent duplication, so that those rules are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e652	The representative Per Sandberg has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e655	Of course, I have no problem joining up with what the Council of State raised in its last article on proposals and respect for being in favour or against. What I have criticised today is the form of debate. I believe that it is one-sided – at least in terms of the statements that have come from many representatives today – that this is almost underlying flows, and that we have a completely different agenda of proposing this than what is actually in the proposal. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to reply to the representative Torve. Yes, the Progress Party will promote all the necessary proposals for action to be taken – whether we get a majority or not, we will at least challenge the Stortinget – both to strengthen the protection of children from abuse, and also to strengthen women's defences in terms of the development we see in violence. There the Progress Party is willing to go far, and we also hope that in the future we will have wider support in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e664	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3046]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e680	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e689	The Storting has received a proposal from the representatives of Octay Dahl, Skogrand, Kambe and Harberg from the Right, proposing the establishment of a centre for multidisciplinary and comprehensive combating of trafficking in human beings and child abuse via digital media. I will explain the Committee's position and what the majority will agree with, and I expect the rapporteurs and, where appropriate, the minority in the Committee to present their views. At first I want to say that I experience an impatience from the Right and from the proposers, and I am pleased about this kind of thing. I am glad that there is a great commitment to the work against violence and abuse against children. I want to stress that preventing and combating child abuse is one of the most important issues that the Government is also working with. As a real child of the Internet generation, I'll go so far as to say I'm happy on the Internet. The Internet has made life easier for many, social media makes it easier to communicate and keep in touch with friends and family. It is therefore not unnatural for the Internet to take a growing place in the lives of children and young people. But Internet use also presents challenges and new challenges. Infringement images are spread online, and the victim may feel that the attack is repeated over and over again. Adults and parents have difficulty — and perhaps it is impossible for many parents — knowing what children actually do online, and it makes it easier for people with dishonest intentions to build trust with children and young people. This is why the Government has launched a number of measures in several areas to combat network-related abuse. It is a unanimous committee that indicates that police work has been strengthened in recent years. Red button has been introduced online and central tip reception at Kripos, and Kripos receives many tips. Police also play an important role in prevention and therefore patrols online. As an excellent example of multidisciplinary cooperation, Redd Barna and Telenor, together with Kripos, have developed data filters to prevent access to aspects of child abuse images. All police districts now have their own family violence coordinators, and their own teams have been established in the big cities. It helps to focus violence on children and also to increase the competence of the police. But the Internet knows no police district borders or national borders. That is why it is essential that we have international cooperation – borderless cooperation. Norwegian researchers now have access to Interpol's database, and they are working on spreading the online filter solution to other countries. There has been an important and proper commitment to the police and their work against Internet-related abuses and trafficking in human beings. At the same time, we also realise that the police cannot solve these challenges alone. That is why the red-green government has also strengthened legislation to protect children better, and in 2007 the so-called grooming paragraph entered into force. It is designed to protect children from sexual abuse by the fact that preparatory actions are now also punishable. The Committee agrees that multidisciplinary work is essential. Police and auxiliaries need to work together, and this includes, among other things: The SLT worked an important function. There is reason to commend the municipalities that have the Police Council and interdisciplinary cooperation locally. I think we are best placed to prevent crime – including this type of crime – when local elected representatives are involved and take responsibility with police, auxiliaries and other actors. We know that children in vulnerable situations can easily be victims of online exploitation. A report from NOVA in 2008 points out that young people who have been exposed to sexual abuse online are characterised by a number of factors that indicate that they generally have a problematic life situation. Many children have a bad relationship with parents, few or no friends, and like all other children, they also need to be seen. Many of these children are in an existing auxiliaries. Fear The children pointed in the consultation to the situation in the field of child protection, as the Committee also stresses. It is also important to point out that industry has a responsibility and cooperation with service providers and moderators is important. For this reason, it is nice to say that Kripos today has a seminar that brings together network operators, police, auxiliaries and non-governmental organisations. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, consider it important to look at the experience and work of the CEOP Centre in England. In the fight against child abuse, we can always do more, and we have to be willing to learn from the majority. However, the majority will not support the proposal to set up a CEOP centre in Norway now. Norwegian police and British police are organised in different ways, and it is not directly transferable to Norwegian affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e723	Controlling, preventing and responding adequately to child abuse has no quick fix solution. I suppose that actually showed the previous debate. Today it's doing a lot of good, and there's a lot of work going on, but you don't necessarily work well together. A good deal has been done, as the rapporteur was in the Chamber. The whole Storting, together with the Council of State and not least the Fear Children, has lifted their eyes to give this area not only the attention it requires, but also found common solutions in the form of the grooming paragraph that was taken up, the red button and the data filter. Several researchers are also employed in the field of research. However, we do not have as much of an obligation – I stress obligating – interdisciplinary cooperation, where auxiliaries and other agencies are connected, as we do. has in England. Such a centre has been established, which has been proposed several times by the Right that Norway should be established. England is a larger and different country than Norway, but it is difficult to see that the combination of operational police work, intelligence and victim identification, coordinated with crime prevention strategies and outreach communication, which works well under the auspices of CEOP, should work poorly in Norway. The previous Justice Committee visited the CEOP Centre just after its launch and was very positive – almost positive when we got home – regardless of party membership. It really seems like the government is. I have to say that the proposal is not rejected in a particularly brusque way, in relation to what we can sometimes be used to. On the right, CEOP visited in February this year and was turned off how pleased policemen, school and youth course managers, lawyers, lobbyists and other professionals were about being able to meet continuously and committed all the time. They could constantly draw inspiration and knowledge from each other, and not least see the whole chain in relation to combating Internet-related child abuse for a continuous period of time. They were open to the fact that there had probably been forces that had been skeptical and driven by reviral marking, but that it was based on old habit. I have a gruesome feeling that even if you have meetings, dialogues and conferences between different disciplines, that reputation is still present quite a number of places in the Norwegian community between police and various professional bodies. I think that's why the proposal is rejected, which was one of the important points of the Faremo report, to which the Council of State in the media initially was in favour. Based on what the case rapporteur has now said, that one is opposed to establishing such a centre now, I really think that now one chooses to refrain from taking the fight to get it to, because there are a couple of, three other challenges in police and criminal care that probably make the power to establish such a centre not the greatest, after exhausting rounds of it being PF, NFF or KY. I choose to interpret it as if you're really in the heart for setting up such a center when you say you don't want to establish it now. But given that you go in to reorganize police districts, etc., it will be a natural part of that job to think in parallel that this is a way that works well in England – yes, a bigger country, but it works so well, is so logical, and it is in many ways the same way that made us all gradually very much for Barna’s House, namely, by bringing together competent professional personnel who meet continuously, and who can see the whole chain, prevention, control, reactions, training, schooling in a context. I use the opportunity to address the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e742	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e745	The rapporteur has well explained the government's view of the matter, but I would like to say that we are following this centre and the work done there, carefully. Suffering if we do not make the exact model here in Norway against this, it is not that we are not interested in the experience and the type of work you have at this centre. This is one of several quite good inputs into the work to prevent child abuse. It's not for hiding. My major question in terms of child abuse, in particular Internet-related abuse, but also in terms of trafficking in human beings, is: Is the need now — to reveal more such cases, to help children who are exposed to it, and to prevent — more structures and more cooperation forums in Norway? There I have to say that my answer is so far no. What we actually need is to get things revealed, get things corrected, and help the kids out in a practical way. Not least, as the proposal points out, we are totally dependent on actors being able to talk across the board. It's a demanding job, but we've seen that the effort you've chosen to put emphasis on over the last few years is effective. I'm glad. There are several measures, which are, to a large extent, within several areas of public, child protection, health, police, prosecution and justice, and which are very much linked to child abuse, but also to the Internet-related part of it, which makes it grow. In my view, it is particularly important that we continue to strengthen that effort, and we need good arguments to build new structures that will contribute to new bureaucracy. The new penal code adopted, as well as the proposals on the amendment of the old penal code, shows how seriously we believe this type of crime should be taken. I don't go into it any more. The size is familiar with it. I also refer to the changes that have been made in the past, including: With regard to new grooming, where fortunately we've seen the first sentence, which shows that we're on our way. The rights of insults are strengthened, as I have mentioned several times. What the rapporteur was about, about the build-up of efforts within the police, is absolutely crucial, whether it's their own team, family violence coordinators, or people with expertise in the Internet and trafficking in human beings. I also show that it is absolutely essential that children be able to report in. We must allow that to be the primary consideration of the measures taken by the Government in recent years. It is to create venues where children can report – either on the Internet or outside the Internet. The alarm phone for Children and Young, telephone 116111, is a good example of this. Children’s homes are another good example, and – as several departments are now working on – strengthening the skills of those working with children and young people – teachers, pre-school teachers and kindergarten workers, among others. – absolutely crucial if we are to reach more of these children. So I would point out that nationally, Kripos has overall responsibility for Internet-related abuse. There, a unit has been developed to deal with issues that go over multiple police districts, as well as working on network prevention. I believe that much of the need that might be in the proposal, in relation to trafficking in human beings, is actually met by the coordination unit dealing with trafficking in human beings. It is exciting to see that Kripos is getting good results, growing results, in terms of Internet-related crime, among others. through the Red Button, online police station, and filter solutions, of which several have been involved. And then, finally, I want to refer to the work that the Government is doing now to strengthen the international work on this. I have taken initiatives in the Nordic region for further cooperation, especially in the field of Internet-related abuse. It is quite obvious that cooperation with Interpol, too, is essential in order to bring this undead to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e764	Most people have probably come to understand that the Right has and will have a broad debate and an assessment of whether we should go for the Data Storage Directive. State councils are followers of the Data Storage Directive and have, unlike myself and the Right, concluded with a yes. Yesterday there was a good chronicle in today's business from my colleagues Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Nikolai Astrup, who raised the question: Will the Data Storage Directive at all help in relation to Hotmail, Skype, chat channels, etc.? A lot of people believe that it will not help at all. Is the Council of State of the opinion that the implementation of the Data Storage Directive is a good idea and will help in relation to the three things they addressed in their chronicle?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e769	It's nice to change the topic a little, but it has great relevance to the underlying in the proposal. I am very concerned to find out on every occasion that if you really want to combat Internet-related abuses and other organised crime as well, the implementation of the Data Storage Directive is a particularly important tool for the Norwegian police. It's also like today we have the ability to store data. On the issue of new forms of communication and new technologies, too, the Data Storage Directive is important, mainly because we know that many use old technologies that are already covered. When we introduced the fingerprint rule and mechanism in the 1930s, someone said that people were going to use gloves, so this was not going to help. We know it didn't last. At the same time, we know that storing data will also be the subject of development. So I mean that in any case this will be absolutely crucial for, among other things. taking the Internet-related crime. I sometimes stumble at the fact that the opponents do not choose to see the privacy considerations of the children who are being abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e776	Then I'm just going to repeat the question. So the question is about the things that were addressed regarding Hotmail, Skype and chat channels. Now the council didn't answer that. Does he think that the implementation of the Data Storage Directive will work on these issues, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e782	First, I haven't read the article, so I'd like to see what's said in it. We have now completed a consultation round, and there are two elements in the data storage directive that I think it is important to arrive at. The first is that there is a significant amount of data to be stored – there is no doubt about – and that people will continue to use, even though there are channels of communication that are difficult to detect through the Data Storage Directive. I want to, before I answer questions about every technology, give a safe answer, so I'm going to come back to the questioner with it. At the same time, this evolves in several directions. The technology that just a few years ago was not possible to trace by the police is now possible to trace. So the police and the authorities also have opportunities to develop what can actually be revealed on new information channels. But that some are difficult now, is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e792	Online imagery is a documentation of something that we would not like to be found. There is evidence of pedophile's activities. I would like to refer to the previous debate on helping to prevent abuse. What we talked about there, in a way, has its results on the Internet, at least it often did. That is what we are talking about in this debate. There has been a lot of work done, including: by the Norwegian police, to increase efforts to take the backers. But we have to put an even stronger focus in order to take these backers. I think we all agree on that. How are we going to do that? The proposal for the CEOP centre is then centralized. The CEOP Centre is a concrete expression of what you can do to increase your focus. It's kind of a concreteization of a model that works. We see that from England. The reason we heard from the government faction in the Judicial Committee is that the English system is not directly transferable to the Norwegian. Of course it's not. That's the way it's going to be for every country that's going to learn from other countries. Something needs to be adapted. But the experience is good, and that's a model we can use. The argument from the government fraction is too thin. I myself have had the pleasure of attending crime prevention conferences in Montreal, Canada, which at least are believed to have the world's highest competence in crime prevention work, including the competence of Internet abuse and how to prevent it. It is said very clearly that the CEOP Centre is a good model from which several countries should learn. Several countries also consider introducing similar measures. So to the argument, when you have as a common goal the detection of backers, the prevention of the spread of digital images, the prevention of the spread of films, the prevention of backers from making money on this, the prevention of backers from engaging in trafficking in human beings, it's putting into practice a solution with such a CEOP center, which we have a great deal of faith in. The argumentation is too thin. It becomes too hollow when you oppose concrete proposals for solutions like this because the English system is not directly transferable to the Norwegian. It won't last.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3046]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e821	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e830	Children are entitled to be with both parents, and Norwegian children are entitled to be at home in Norway. It is a criminal act to abduct Norwegian children abroad. Children get hurt. They're missing school. They lose time building up their natural network of peers. Parents and grandparents get emotional and financial stress. This is the task of the proposers and the Committee. The government and SV are busy with the children who are unfortunately being abducted abroad. That is exactly why we have a continuous work going on, both to prevent abductions and to get abducted children back home. The main tool for bringing children back to Norway is the Hague Convention on International Child Abduction. Every country that has joined it is obliged to send the child back to its home country, and in most cases the child is picked up quite quickly. The Convention has been ratified by 81 countries, including Norway, and Norwegian policy is for several countries to accede to this Convention. However, we have to recognise that not all matters are easy to solve. We must remember that Norway does not actually have jurisdiction in other countries and depends on national authorities in the country to which the child is abducted, is cooperative, and that the child is not hidden by the one who has abducted the child or by his or her fellow workers. International childbirth is a difficult and complex issue. Law, politics and emotions are involved. In addition, at least two countries with two widely differing laws, legal cultures and traditions are involved. As demonstrated by the position and letter of the Minister of Justice to the Committee, the Red-Green Government has put in place a number of measures to improve information, prevent and work towards rapid management and clarification of child abduction cases. The majority of the Committee share the views of the proposers on financial measures which make it less attractive to abduct children. The cessation of government benefits and economic transfers may have such a preventative effect. That is also why the Red-Green Government has had proposals on this at the hearing, and I am pleased that the Minister of Justice in his letter of reply says that it is aimed at submitting legislative proposals to the Stortinget during the autumn 2010. Finally, with regard to the proposal to narrow down access to dual citizenship, I would like to point out that such a tightening may make it more difficult for Norwegian authorities to help a child who has been abducted from Norway to abroad. I believe that it is essential that we do not introduce changes that make it difficult to help children who have been abducted abroad. It is in the nature of the matter that when we contact the authorities of other countries, we do it on behalf of one of our citizens, and if we narrow down the right to have citizenship, and the child does not have it, or the parent does not have it, we have less opportunity to contact and gain influence over other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e849	There are many challenging and complex assessments in relation to issues related to child abduction, and I think the Progress Party should be commended for putting this issue on the agenda. I would venture the claim that the government is working both intensively and very well on these questions. International child Abductions must be prevented, as far as possible. However, if this were to happen, Norwegian authorities depend entirely on other countries showing good cooperation. The government has taken several measures, both in terms of competence, information, prevention and other things, which the case-speaker was also involved in. I'm glad there's a great deal of cross-political unity in these questions. The Labour Party agrees with the proposers that those who abduct a child should not be given public or financial benefits. I am pleased that the government has already had this question on the phone and indicates that a bill will be presented on this during 2010. When it comes to the question of dual citizenship, I point out that the main principle in Norway is that people who have Norwegian citizenship should not have citizenship in other countries. Nevertheless, international commitments will help to ensure that one cannot practice this absolutely, so this is a proposal for measures that will not have any effect, as we see it. I'm not going to go into all the other suggestions on the matter, but these questions that have been raised, engage the whole Storting, and that's very good. I know that the government has these matters high on its agenda. With a cross-political consensus, the Government also has support from a large majority on the Stortinget. This is constructive, and it leads the work on these issues high on the political agenda. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e862	The Progress Party is also pleased that there is a high level of commitment and that there is a cross-political consensus here on the vast majority of measures taken, but also those that the Government is considering. We have a fundamental disagreement about dual citizenship, and I also see that the situation surrounding the proposal of the Progress Party on a Special Court requires further consideration – not because the Progress Party considers it a priority task in relation to the other proposals that have been promoted here, but it is a discussion that needs to be taken because the issue raised in the proposal will be greater. As a result of the removal of borders, a more multicultural society, mixed marriages and double citizenship, the challenges of what we call child abduction will have to be greater in the future – I have no doubt about that. This is not just about where there is conflict between parents. I believe, of course, that in those cases where a parent has a conflict, dual citizenship will make the conflict bigger and more difficult. That's what our motivation for this is. But many of these things will also, in the future, I think, be about simply intervening against the will of children. Young children, but also children and young people up to 18 years of age, will face this challenge much more in the future. I think we're wondering a little bit about how big the problem is today. I mean and think there's a lot of darkness here, because many of these cases actually don't reach and aren't reported, and many cases that are lost in the judicial system against other countries are not registered. I would like to ask the Council of State to look much more closely at the issue of police rejection of reports until a legal decision is taken on the care part. It's a big problem, because it's time. With regard to the Hague Convention, it is important to act quickly, in fact within 100 days. However, if the parent to be notified has to go through the Norwegian legal system in order to have a legal decision on the care part, it will of course take more than 100 days. It's part of the problem. Then we will find ourselves in a situation where the Hague Convention is used in reverse by what is the intention, where the intention to ensure that the child is immediately returned falls away, because then you are in a situation where the child has been integrated, perhaps learned a new language, changed the environment and a different relationship with the country to which he has been abducted. This is when the Hague Convention is almost used to clean child-removalers — due to the time aspect and in the best interests of children. We are also aware of this in connection with the discussion on the distribution of children in Norway. We also have a situation in relation to Nav. I am very pleased that the Government has now sent this to the hearing, and that it is said so clearly here today, both from the SV and the Workers' Party, that we want this, that we now need to use economically motivated matters and stop it, because that is what is here. With regard to the conflicts we have, I think that many of these issues are actually economically motivated. If we can get rid of this, as I now interpret those who have spoken, and also from the letter from the Council of State, we have a cross-political agreement on that. Then I think we've done a good job. The reason why the Progress Party has re-launched all these proposals, although they have been examined in the past, and that the Government has initiated consultation processes and agrees with many of the proposals, is that there is a comprehensive proposal covering all the actions. Because we can't now go into the trap of taking one action at a time. We have to get all the measures in place here together, so that we get a full impact of it. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e875	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e878	Children's issues in general, whether they're within or outside the borders, are very serious issues. It's among the things we've discussed a lot in Stortinget, how we're going to make rules that are best for children, but we also have to give adults the right to be happy with those they're actually happy with. The challenge here is that when people distinguish layers across borders, there is an even greater problem of consensus, of differing rules, of different norms and of difficulties since living far apart. Because we move more around the Earth during life, more and more people, this will be a problem that increases. This will be a challenge that we will face much more in everyday life. That is why I am very much in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 2, but we're not going to vote for it, because it's not exactly the big challenge. It's not just getting the commendable initiative that the Council of State has told him to come in, put in place, and get the other legislation in place, but you have to start working internationally with a large number of rules that include all countries. It is not certain that it will be organised in a court of law, but that it will have to be organised in a way, and that international initiatives will have to be taken to put it in place, I think it is a common international challenge that we have to contribute to. What's at the bottom of the engagement with all of us is child's best. The fact that children are going to be allowed to grow up and know both their parents in a good way is the driving force, both for us and for many of the parents who experience the horror this is actually. I think we have to make legislation, we have to make procedures, and we have to create structures to take care of the kids that are abducted, but it's as big a challenge to create an international code on how to behave, which is going to be much more fine masked than what we have today. That's the challenge I think the Government will take. I am also in favour of some of the proposals in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 1, but it's structured in a way that makes it hard to vote for. But at least then I have expressed that the Left has a great sense of the intentions behind both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e893	The government is giving high priority to this work, and there is reason for this. The representative Sandberg has pointed out that the global age in which we live links across borders – fortunately, because it can be reaped very well – challenges us, among other things. when circumstances break up and the dispute arises with regard to the children. Then I would like to say that both the previous and the current government started a job and have started many actions in this area. It is not possible to conceal that many of those measures are entirely dependent on rapid response, that you get on the track quickly when you face a case, so that some may be stopped before they reach Kastrup. But it's also very dependent on us getting the full force of what's, I kept saying, the Constitution in this area, the Hague Convention. I do not conceal that I have a great sense of the Hague Convention regarding this work. The idea of a separate international court, of working internationally for it, I think becomes a siding. What is important is to get as much as possible into the Hague Convention and to want to develop the Hague Convention, as the representative Skei Grande was about – or at least as I understood her – and also to have the full effect of the Hague Convention when you are in current situations. We have e.g. in Mexico, a country which has acceded to the Hague Convention, where no solution has been found. So completing the solution when it's clear that the process is complete, we're totally dependent on, because the child's best-respect speaks very strongly for a quick solution. If a kid who has been abducted has been in another country for many, many years, it is increasingly more difficult and difficult to implement the decision. I therefore believe that the Hague Convention is the most important instrument for resolving child abduction cases, and that the Hague Convention is also a good tool for many of the cases. We must be happy to see that the measures taken, both by the previous government and by the current one, have helped to resolve more and more issues. It could be like this, as the representative Sandberg also pointed out, that there are large numbers of darkness – or that there is at least darkness. But at the same time, the number of registered cases coming to the authorities is not marked by growth. I've also believed that we're going to get a big boom of these things, but it might be that we now see that the measures that are being implemented are effective, and that they actually also work prevention. The objective of the Hague Convention is that illegally abducted children should be returned to the country of residence so that decisions on the future of the child can be taken there. This is believed to be in the best interests of the child, and it is our experience that most of the cases are resolved relatively quickly within the framework of Convention cooperation. Therefore, Norwegian policy is that as many countries as possible should accede to the Hague Convention. Then we're totally dependent on having an appliance at home that handles things when they get there. That is the background for, among other things, is set up a common national coordination group, but also a Nordic one, to help all actors make a good contribution. We have a department in the Ministry of Justice – Civil Service – working on these matters together with people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There's a good job done. The fact that you have now done child abduction.no on the Internet helps people to get information and come to us faster, to the authorities, when you need help, and to get an understanding of it. The fact that you have chosen to appoint, among other things, contact judges and persons within the police and prosecution authorities to advise and handle these types of cases also contribute to the efficiency of the apparatus. Then I also show that there is a list of 24 lawyers from all over the country who are now going to become more experts than others in handling such matters. Then I do not conceal that I have great faith that financial measures could be very preventive and also expedite the return of illegally abducted children, and I refer to what is shown by the suspension in this respect. I am convinced that there will be important measures to prevent future child abductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e919	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e922	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report. But I will nevertheless challenge the Council of State on these uncertain figures – how extensive is this? There is at least considerable doubt about whether we have understood and collected information about the extent of the problem. I said something in my post that the police rejected reports based on the care situation and that the responsibility was not allocated initially. The second may be that some parties have made a settlement, simply for the sake of the child, or for economic reasons, or that the forces simply ended in fighting another country’s legal system. So there could be a lot of things here that aren't registered. In order to get a better picture of the scope and challenges that the Council of State agrees to can come up with more in the future, is it perhaps a possibility that the police will get a different type of reporting without going directly to a notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e929	I'm open to looking at measures that can help us to know more about how many there are. At the same time, I believe that what is now being undertaken by more information-oriented actions will help more people to report and that they know where to report. And when child abductions happen, I think the large proportion of people are concerned about reporting and getting help – or at least looking for help, because you see this as very acute. I'm open to looking at opportunities, among other things. by means of a registration system capable of providing us with a better numbering material against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e939	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3047]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e959	The starting point for this interpellation is that the main historical parts of the capital and their development concern the entire country, not just the inhabitants of Oslo. The size has clearly marked it, for example. by the strong, large and successful operation of the Opera in Bjørvika, by building the lower tunnel in Bjørvika, which was now opened on Monday, and also by the project Umweltbyen Old Oslo, which was run from the early 1990s to 2007. But it is in the next 20 to 30 years that we will see whether these great grips will trigger the successful development of the capital's historic heart and rock along with good residential areas and good, new and important attractions. In order for this to be successful, there are many solutions, very good interaction, that need to be put in place in the years to come. As regards the understanding of this whole project, it is essential to build on one of the two or three most important historical areas of the nation. This area can only be compared with Nidaros and with the Bryggen and Bergen attachment. From the 1000s on, the construction of the town in Vika started, where we gradually got the national institutions Mariakirken, Kongsgården, Hallvardskathedralen, Bispegården, Ladegården, Clemenskirken, etc., and this became the new power center in Norway. At the end of the 1200s, Håkon built 5. Akershu’s fortification, and a few years later he declared that the town of Bjørvika was Norway’s capital. So here the capital lay for several hundred years until it was burned 17 times, was forced by Kristian IV to the square area and built in the wall and stone in shelter of Akershu's fortress. And then they neglected for hundreds of years and left the old capital in Bjørvika and the institutions that are decaying and disappearing in wooden warehouses, transport activities, etc., and it also became after every road and railway development. It was during this railway development in 1868 that the ruins of the Mary Church were rediscovered and partially preserved in a hidden fence between rail rails. They remained there until the interest was revived at the end of the 1980s, especially in Sissel Rønbeck's time as Minister for the Environment, and later through the project Umweltbyen Gamle Oslo, as Environment Minister Thorbjørn Berntsen at the time and the Ap/SV Municipal Council in Oslo started from 1993. This was then continued by future agencies until 2007. These projects took care of and restored Bispegården and the original cellars there, the ruins of the Clemens Park, the ruins of the Church of Mary and Kongsgården, and the great promise came when the water mirror was put in place at the ruins of the Church of Mary, which shows where the beach edge went when Bjørvika was the country's capital and power center. And so this became today's medieval park. But the park is still so confined between motorways, rails, storage sheds, trailer parking etc. that there has hardly been any available attraction reminiscent of the magnitude of the past. So the core of the discussion on Bjørvika development is about how we can better bring forward Norway's most important historical areas and power centers, and combine this with a good urban development, good housing development, the development of new attractions in the area – creating a context in this historical space that is getting better than today. The one who has contributed most to this new interest and created a new discussion and made us stop and think about, is the Reichsantikvar Jørn Holme. His lectures at the Polytechnic Association on 23 November last was the start of a major debate that has taken place since then, and many of which have asked us to follow up here on the Stortingen in national context. The Riksantikvaren literally stood up in the capital's historic heart, the Medieval Park, and then the Bjørvika extension from there. What he saw was a six-field nearest highway, called King Håkon 5th Street, which closed between the park and the fjord, and he saw a residential area with up to eleven stories of high blocks entering this highway, which was a barrier between the Middle Ages – that area is called Kongsbakken – and fjord. In fact, three broad and good lines of vision were put into place against the Main Island and Akershus fastening, after pressure from the Riksantikvaren around 2003. But then after these lines of vision were in place and Jørn Holme, the new rickshaw, looked once more at them, he suddenly stared right into the new planned museum, the so-called Lambda, or the 14-storey Munch Museum, which was to be laid in excess of time at Paulsenkaia, which is adjacent to the opera area. It broke with the regulations, which were confirmed by the Ministry of the Environment on six floors, it broke with the lines of sight against Akershu's fastening, and it was shaded for the new national monument that the Opera has already become. When you stand on the roof of this opera building, which tens of thousands now do during the year, you can see a new Lambda in front of you there, not the Ekebergåsen, but right into a glass wall – instead of enjoying the view both towards this hill and the medieval town etc. The Riksantikwaren then announced that, if nothing was done with these lines of vision with Lambda and with the expansion plan on Kongsbakken, he would be able to object to the 14-storey building. This led to unfortunate reactions, initially from the City Council in Oslo, where, in an article in the evening post on 5 January, the President of the City Council stamped the Riksantikvaren initiative as ‘private viewing of stationery with rickshaws’, and later the Progress Party has brought to the fore the approach of the City Council to warn that, in the context of the Bjørvika case, they will make a proposal here on the Stortinget where they will restrict the powers and role of the Riksantikvaren. Fortunately, the public debate gradually became strong, among other things. when the opera director Remlov proposed to build a scaffolding to illustrate where the painting was placed and faulty with Lambda next to the Opera, and when Oslo Byes Well reported that this was not an original building, but that it was unmistakable at a hotel the same architect had drawn in Las Palmas. Fortunately, in the middle of January, there was contact between the City Council and the National Antiquities, creating new expectations for better solutions in terms of visibility lines and the development of the Kongsbakken and Lambda projects. The working party for its part has said that we would like to take advantage of the opportunities available to reduce the rate of expansion on the Kong Hill and to open up more between the Middle Ages Park and the fjord. It may be that up to half and perhaps more of the development in that area can be reduced, both by paying an infrastructure contribution from the municipality that replaces what the development would contribute to the infrastructure in that area and by repositioning some of the building mass. An infrastructure contribution of e.g.: up to half of the expansion on Kongsbakken will be 80-90 million. NOK after I have been informed. It is a reasonable price to recreate a historic area for the city and for the country and for our descendants. In this process it is important that the state through its subsidiaries ROM, Entra, etc., which owns two thirds of what is called Oslo S. Development, which is the main player on Kongsbakken, is positive in finding new solutions for both reducing the degree of expansion and creating new locations for some of the projects. As regards Lambda, according to e.g. architect Thiis-Evensen, as a cross-sectional screenboard between Akershus, Opera, Ekebergåsen, Medieval Park, etc., thought that the Riksantikvaren should be moved inwards on Paulsenkaia, so that the lines of sight were re-emerged, so as to disturb the Opera less, and so that it could better slip into the high settlement that is already further into it in the form of the so-called Barcode buildings. This, together with a reduced height of construction, could at least reduce some of the damage and part of the criticism that has been addressed to the re-discussed Lambda building. But for the time being, the reaction to that point from the Municipality of Oslo has not been positive. We've talked about moving the top 3 meters inwards, but I hope that several parties will evaluate their points of view for this in terms of the heavy arguments of the Riksantik product and others. I also hope that the state will listen to its opera director, Remlov, and his rickshaws, and in order to safeguard its large and heavy investment in the opera building also in a suitable way conversations with its collaborators in the Municipality of Oslo on how to find a better and more harmonious location for the new Munch Museum. There are many more questions that I can't get into in the first place, which should be discussed in the context of Bjørvika development. I hope to come back to that later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e995	Let me thank Jan Bøhler for bringing into Stortinget a very important debate, a debate that has engaged an incredible number of people in Oslo. It is important that it is brought into the national Parliament, even if the questions will not be concluded here today. As Jan Bøhler said, Bjørvika is one of Norway's three most important historical centers. While all the mountainers I've met are proud of Bryggen, all the trotters I've met, are proud of the Archebishop's Garden and the Nidarosdom, it's a long way to go to make us oslo people as proud of what's the third center for Norway as a nation, namely Bjørvika, and that we're going to see this as one of the basic national centers. So that's where Oslo grew up. Here it was already before Harald Hardwire's time, and in the 1200's it gradually grew up as our capital. I had enjoyed reading an amazingly good book by a young historian, Tore Skeie, about medieval chief Alv Erlingsson. He portrays there Oslo in the Middle Ages as follows: «Alight under the steep Ekebergåsen was Oslo a small, rotting wooden town, with narrow plank-covered streets. The houses were built in timber, some in one, others in two floors. Outside the seabeds protruded long planks into the fjord. In the sea were large lumbers filled with stone, which was used as docks for large ships. There were no defence works that protected the approximately three thousand people who lived there." It was Duke Håkon, or Håkon 5. Magnusson, who, in competition with his brother Eirik in Bergen, built Oslo to the real capital of the kingdom. It became the capital of the kingdom when he took over as king. It's this historical perspective on Bjørvika and Oslo that we now have to take into account the new. Then the area was at the bottom of a traffic machine for hundreds of years; a very railway area and heavy roads, and very little happened. But as I see it: the important task we now have is to take with us, take care of and protect and preserve history, but at the same time use the unique opportunity to expand a very urban area to a fantastic new city for culture, for business and for the inhabitants there. You have to take the old, but at the same time be forward-looking into the new. That's the main problem. It's a complicated development because there's complicated ownership, and there's a complex and extensive development on a Norwegian scale, how many public agencies are involved. Users are also many and diverse. It spreads from Norway as a nation and our national pride, i.e. all the Northmen, to all the travellers who are going to come to Bjørvika, to the employees of the companies that are being set up there, to the many who are going to live there, to the owners of buildings and installations and, of course, to the municipal politicians in Oslo, who feel a great responsibility for their city. The development of the site is of national importance. That is the basis for the Riksantikvaren's commitment to the debate. The area around Oslo Central Station is Norway's largest traffic hub. Climate challenges suggest that we are based on a strong fortification, and it is fundamentally positive that many can live so centrally in a city. It will reduce transport needs. So we're building a new medium-sized Norwegian town in Bjørvika. I want to pay great tribute to the Riksantikvaren, who revitalised this debate when, on the basis of the changed plans of the Municipality of Oslo, he made it possible to reopen a debate, which does not mean that it is reopened by the fact that all the plans that have been made are to be set aside, but which made it a huge, popular commitment. We got a lot of insights into how our city can evolve further. Without the Riksantikvarn starting it, we hadn't seen this great commitment. The development of Bjørvika has been a long process and, of course, cannot and should not be addressed again. We need to focus on those parts of the expansion that it is still possible to influence. The changed plans of the municipalities of Oslo resulted in the re-launch of the planning programme and the regulation plan for the Deichman axis and the Munch/Stenersen area. There is now a constructive cooperation between the Riksantikvaren and the Municipality of Oslo, and I hope, believe and feel confident that this cooperation will lead to the necessary compromises between the Riksantikvaren and the Municipality, so that we not only get an economically sound, forward-looking, environmentally friendly city, but also take care of one of Norway's historic centres. The Ministry of Environment shall be careful to interfere in the details of this process. As I said, I hope to agree with the main stakeholders. The expansion in Bjørvika cannot be based on my personal taste. I don't think that would benefit anyone. The development of Bjørvika will also be a seventh and final issue for the Ministry of the Environment for Anchorage. I would therefore be careful to say something about each building in this debate. Our role is to assess planning programmes and to deal with land conflicts and possible objections. So it works in parallel with the location of the University's Cultural History Museum. The challenges of designing such a large and central area are difficult. One of the challenges is the constellation of publicly owned companies with financial performance requirements related to their activities. Another challenge is the actual implementation of all facilities to be accessible to the public. Oslo Municipality cannot be solely responsible for these areas. Their financing must be ensured through agreements with different actors. This applies to such things as parks, places, pavements and cyclists' facilities, to mention something. The third challenge is participation. The public debate we have received as a result of the performance of the Riksantik product is an important part of the process of participation. In large complex cases involving as many as this, the builders and municipalities must be conscious of their responsibility for wide involvement and participation. It is strongly encouraged to be put up in such a way that most people can participate in it. All those who are going to live in Bjørvika — all of Oslo and Norway — must be able to participate in it. Of course, it has to be done with professionalism at the bottom, but in a popular way, which allows as many people as possible to participate. To do so, it is often necessary to communicate what the plans will mean in practice. It is necessary to show the height, extent, spaces between the construction and the visibility lines and the kind of demonstration measures mentioned by Jan Bøhler – building scaffolding and showing how the building will actually be, which stimulates the thinking. The law now emphasises greater needs and requirements for participation in planning. New concepts such as ‘planosmies’ and ‘folk’ have emerged. The Ministry of the Environment sees it as a main concern to work continuously to further develop the legislation and guidance material in order to ensure the widest possible participation in planning processes such as those in Bjørvika. The many advanced tools that have been used for quality assurance and to demonstrate this by various forms of animation are important instruments in this way. The Deichman axis and the Munch/Stenersen area are now under change. That plan may be submitted to the Ministry of the Environment. We're going to get back to it, if there's no presumptuous agreement between the Riksantikvaren and the Municipality of Oslo. Here there is also a debate between the parties of the City Council, which I have registered. As I said, the Bjørvika development corresponds to a medium-sized Norwegian town on a scale. It has a huge national interest. The opera has demonstrated to us all the importance of beautifully designed building, which takes care of the old and at the same time is in the present. It's been a success. Those of us who remember how we were arguing about the location of the Opera here in this house 15 years ago, know that there was an intense debate about where it was going to be. But it was very, very few who really watched for themselves what a fantastic thundering success this was going to be, and how the opera would come out to people in a way and with an appell that I should honestly admit I thought only football and ice hockey could have. Now people buy tickets many months in advance to get to the Opera. It's a huge attraction here. The development of Bjørvika is demanding. We want an exhibition window for eco-friendly urban development. Building high and dense in Norway’s largest collective hub is important to follow up climate objectives. But it has to be done with quality. The large and important cultural institutions, such as the Opera and others, will attract visitors on a large scale. While building densely and loudly, the need for sunlight, noise abatement, safety, well-being and accessibility must be met, so that it is perceived as an enrichment both for the inhabitants and for the city. Let me end by repeating that the big task we're facing is to unite the historic and amazing center that Bjørvika has been in Norway's history with the need to create an environmentally friendly, forward-looking and dense city. We can do both. I feel confident that when we go a few years ahead in time, Bjørvika will give Oslo's inhabitants much of the same pride as Bryggen gives in Bergen, and as Erkebispegården and Nidarosdomen give in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1040	I would like to thank you for a good response from the Council of State, which showed a lot of insight. What I want to underline, as the Council of State does when, among other things, he does. refers to what Bryggen has historically meant to the city of Bergen, is that it's not just about taking care of the historical heart, but using it to create new dimensions at Oslo, at our capital. We have to be careful now so that we don't neglect the big choice of things that can prove to be decisive in the future, and that lies in decision-making processes that are at the intersection of state and municipality. I'll mention two more examples of this. One is the approximate motorway between the Middle Ages park and Kongsbakken and becomes a heavy barrier down against the fjord from the Middle Ages park. Still, it is planned to lie there as the gate of King Håkon 5 in the future. It creates a wall of noise and pollution, exhaust, which will make this park too attractive to stay in. When we invest billions, as we are now doing, in the development of an attractive Bjørvika, we should take care of this historic core area initially. You should look at whether you can get a different solution, at least where the municipality decides to open up to Kongsbakken, and whether you can create a coal mine and lower King Haakon 5 Street on a stretch, so that we can open up a green area, a continuous area, down to the fjord from the Medieval Park, thus giving it an entirely new dimension and an entirely new and greater meaning to the inhabitants and to everyone who visits it. The second point which is essential for this area at the intersection of the country and the municipality concerns the decision on the Cultural History Museum. For it is important to add this area, the Medieval Park area, several attractions to make it a collection point and an area of very many visitors. A site is regulated for the Cultural History Museum towards the Medieval Park, at the end of Queen Euphemia's Gate, the main street that passes the Opera. There will be a walking distance from the Central Station, and there it will – with the development of a new train station, etc. – pass around 350,000 people in 2025. It will turn much more towards Bjørvika. And the number of visits to a Cultural History Museum located here could be doubled in relation to what has happened on Tullinløkka and on Bygdøy, where the sites of the Cultural History Museum are now located. Both the University of Oslo, which owns the museum, and the Cultural History Museum itself want an overall move to Bjørvika, and we hope that this can eventually be the result when the matter is dealt with beyond the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1055	I want to say that I fully agree with Jan Bøhler that history must be experienced and then used to have the greatest meaning for people. It's completely in line with the debate we have in a lot of areas of protection – a passive, relaxed protection where something is just kept without allowing people to put it into practice, see it and experience it, is the last thing we have to apply for. And at the moment, Oslo and Norway's people's experience of Bjørvika is very far back in relation to what we wish for. The government had its Christmas party in connection with the Church of Mary, and it was apparently the first time a government met in that area since the 1200-1300s or something like that. But it is thus an area that is to the degrees underused as a historical experience – and this we must get. I can't now answer the two questions that were raised directly, because that will go into the processes that are to be resolved with the Ministry of the Environment as possible appeals, and also in the Government, but let me say that I'm very positive to look at any thing that can make this street not as big a barrier as it is now. I also think there could be other and better ways to honor Hakon 5. Magnusson on – such an important figure in Norwegian history – than through a broad road. But we've honored Ibsen through first and foremost a garage, so I guess that's something to wear. But this is one of the most important kings in Norwegian history, and for Oslo definitely a very decisive king, so maybe we could find finer ways to honor his memory than through this way. But let's look at the possibilities for it to become less barrier. With regard to the Middle Ages Museum, there is a debate that goes on, that is not completed, and there the Minister of Research and Higher Education will at some point present it to the Stortinget. But I just want to say as a personal wish that we have to get a lot better in Norway to make these kind of historical museums, in such a way that they catch people and reach out to a much wider audience. I just got back from Washington and I've seen some of the American museums, but we just need to travel to Sweden to see what the Swedishs got out of the Vasa ship. It's an incredible experience, bringing people back to history, to understand what history was like before. For the time being, we are not in the vicinity of having done this in Norway, perhaps with some exceptions, like Røros and others, but at least we have nothing in Oslo that is near what the Vasa ship is for Stockholm and for understanding Swedish history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1066	The President has all the understanding that the Council of State travels a lot, but will remind us that we also have a street in Oslo named after the same Henrik Ibsen – and not just a garage!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1069	I am very pleased that the representative of Bohemia addresses this matter in this Chamber, and I thank him for that. For the development of Bjørvika, according to King Christian IV, the biggest urban development issue in Norway is its plan for Christiania with the Quadrature. It covers 700 covers and at the lower edge of one million square metres of use area, affecting unique national cultural memories. Bjørvika is – as has been said before – the size of a medium-sized Norwegian city, and we are actually talking about the place that is the cradle of the nation. In other words, it is not an ordinary local construction project we are facing! Oslo is also not a very common municipality, but something much more. It's the capital of the country with all that it involves, and it's the gateway to the whole country for thousands of visitors every year. In addition, but not least, it is home to close to 600 000 people. All these are factors that suggest that there are many interests to be taken into account when developing large urban areas, such as Bjørvika. Then it is important that we do the right thing in the matter when the possibility is there. The development of Bjørvika has always been an important urban development project for the Workers’ Party – for example. Thorbjørn Berntsen's heartchild. The state has channelled billions of dollars into this area through various projects. The construction of the Opera and large and heavy transportation projects are some examples of this. The fact that the matter is discussed in this room is therefore a matter of course. The great commitment to the development of Oslo City is a strength for this city and not a weakness. For the Workers' Party, there are three considerations that are particularly important, and that is the consideration of improving the living conditions of all the tens of thousands of people who live in and near Bjørvika. In addition, the interests of ordinary people need to be safeguarded in the development of the area. It must not be that the interests of a few, but capital forces take precedence over the availability and people's experience of this part of the city in the years to come. The Labour Party stands up for the Allemannsrecht also in Bjørvika! It's important to anchor the past when we're going to change for the future. That's what gives us identity, and that's what tells us who we are. And that brings me to the third – but not least – consideration in this matter, and that is the cultural history. Bjørvika is a historical and culturally very important area in a national perspective. Thus, the Riksantikvaren is given by magnificence and government in charge of preserving national cultural memories. This is a heavy social responsibility. Ensuring national cultural historical values requires strong instruments and could conflict with local interests. We have similar situations in a number of other areas of society, such as nature protection, beach protection, agriculture — just to name a few. The Riksantikvar shall point out whether cultural historical reasons have not been respected. It's the Riksantikvaren's job to do it – a job and a job that the Norwegian government has given it. That job I believe the Riksantikvaren has done in an exemplary and good way. When Oslo municipality reregulated Bjørvika for the purpose of the museum location, this was to be regarded as a new regulatory decision. It gives the Riksantikvaren the right of objection under the Planning and Building Act, so this is a very ordinary procedure. A large proportion of the population have also been involved in the debate, and it shows that Bjørvika means a lot to people. However, I have not avoided noticing that the Riksantik product’s comments have fallen heavily on the chest. There's going to be an interpellation in this room at a later stage. In some societies, critical voices are known to be silenced in various ways. As you know, this is not a democratic society that we're comparing ourselves to. In Norway, we have a tradition of democratic processes and fresh discussions, all of which have the right to speak. The flagates of our country should be able to assert their professionally anchored position on the basis of the mandate and mandate given to them by magnificence and government. For this reason, I have to say that I react strongly when I see that the Progress Party in the cooling water of this case is seeking to cut the Riksantikvaren. As decision-makers, we must listen to the important voices of Norwegian democracy. I am pleased that we have a rickshaw – and his people – who are offensive and make professional input and advice that should be part of the decision-making basis for the political decisions you make locally, regionally and nationally. Then it is important that the municipality and national actors have a good interaction and dialogue to ensure the good solutions, where a person takes care of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1092	I have to admit that when I saw the interpellation text, I thought a little bit about what this was doing in Stortinget as a theme, and actually considered that this was not a priority for the Left. I look from the list of speakers that the vast majority of parties have assessed it this way, except those who have been whipped out from the Oslo Workers' Party. But after hearing the introductions here, I have to say that there's a certain need for someone to correct the understanding of history – because either you're on another planet, or there's someone who needs to post-rationalize history. The left went out in 1993 with a plan to turn the port into a fjord town. The Oslo Workers' Party had then had an investigation at Thorbjørn Berntsen that went against fjord town, but that wanted a port town. It was the title of the Evening Post and also the title of the investigation by Oslo Arbeiderparti. Just so it's corrected. I have to say that what I really did most of, was the Council of State, which said it's very long left for us to be proud of the Old Town in Oslo. Then I have to say I know that I am being provoked. This is my part of town, that's the part I've lived in most of my time in Oslo. This is a part of the city that we who live in it are very proud of. This is a city that the Municipality of Oslo has spent a lot of time and energy making it as good as it is. I have personally worked a lot to get to the water table, I was the city council that opened the water table. The Medieval Park is absolutely amazing. The councils can come down a summer day – whether it's Øyafestival or if it's just good weather – and notice how that park works. This is the most exciting part of the city to live in in Norway — the point. This is a multicultural part of town, it's a historic part of town. Many of us spend a lot of our time and our money on this neighborhood being good to live in. There are many of us who spend time and money preserving the buildings in this part of the city, which, when the Workers' Party ruled the city, was to be chastised all as one. The left thinks it's fantastic to have a rickshaw. It is fantastic to have a risk antique that affects the development process and looks at it from its point of view. I am absolutely convinced that the local government of Oslo will find a good solution to this too. But I think it's funny that you're going to override the local government in Oslo, and refuse to believe that it can manage to find out good processes, as it was heard from the interpellant – sail if it was clear that the council has a much greater confidence in that. But I can say what the state can do to make the Old Town and the Bjørvika project a good project. The first is that you don't have to outrun the local government, because the local government has a lot of sense and dreams and visions for this city. There's at least no one there running a campaign against Oslo, which you might see that you can find somewhere else. Getting to a cultural-historical museum in Old Town is extremely important to be able to develop the historic part of the city. Putting it on Bygdøy isn't just museum science stupid, it's also stupid for Oslo. Secondly, the development of Oslo S. It's not just going to be a big square building, where the state has to help Oslo S actually become the important building it is, in order for this to work. Thirdly, if we're going to get a living city with a compound housing stock, the state must also contribute to getting low-cost housing in the area, so that this doesn't just become exclusive editions of some fine dwellings. That's why the Left has fought, both in the previous budget, where we put money, and by getting student housing into the area – which means that we get a compound housing stock. Then you have to stop having state institutions that rule with Oslo, as the Railway Agency is now acting in the Old Town. They're going to chop a hundred trees, which makes sure that all gardens along the railway line are destroyed. It is a type of assault on the citizens of the Old Town that has been going on from the state for many, many years. We need a state that plays along with the city, and that doesn't play against the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1105	Like others, I am pleased to see that the debate on what Oslo should look like is not just a local political issue, but a question of national importance – because in this city we have a cultural history that matters to the whole country, but also because Oslo is the country's face towards the rest of the world. When the Opera was to be placed, the choice was met with resistance. Today, no one is in any doubt that this was the best decision. That decision has been important to revitalise Oslo East. But the debate on the importance of Bjørvika for the East and West is not over yet. When the draft winner of the Deichman library was ready, the Evening Post’s cultural reviewer said that it was good that the winner’s draft ‘let the main entrance turn towards the city’, i.e. to the west. It's old-fashioned. The whole point of the opera position and large-scale expansion in Bjørvika is that the center of Oslo is being moved, the centre of gravity of the city is changing. The development there shall benefit the whole city, and Bjørvika shall turn toward the whole city. By increasing the variation of housing stock, industrial structure and social infrastructure also in the east of Oslo, Oslo city as a whole is strengthened. In this regard, there are some things that are particularly important: The most recent is the location of the Cultural History Museum. The Oslo Workers' Party believes this should be located in Bjørvika. It's the same thing as the Opera: it's moving the city. In a hand turn is Oslo's largest tourist attraction in Old Oslo. When we add the Cultural History Museum with the Viking ships next to the Ruinpark, the building will help draw Bjørvika and the Old Town even closer. The next point is that Bjørvika's connection to Greenland, Tøen and Old Town must be good. In the plans for the area now, we will still – as Mr Bøhler was also in it – have an infrastructure that prevents good flow and movement between these parts of the city and Bjørvika. In the context of a new national transport plan, a solution has to be outlined for Oslo S. The train tracks are located as a large wound through the centre. This has been tried with various bridge connections, but these can never create the proximity that is really needed to connect the two sides of the railway tracks. The old Oslo Workers' Party has proposed to put the tracks in a deep tunnel. This could be one solution. We know that we will in any case need a new train tunnel under Oslo. The most important thing is that the area is opened to activity. Railway is important, but it works just as well below ground as above ground. Also the Mossevej and King Håkon 5th Street will be an obstacle. The Mossevej is in Oslopackak 3 scheduled for tunneling. Then it's important that this happens as close to the Oslo Centre as possible, so that we get the least possible way up today. It should be natural to look at the solutions that can be found for this when planning the new double track between Oslo and Ski, as we can assume that these must take the same route to get where they are going. It must be important that the new part of the city becomes a versatile part of the city. Ordinary families should be able to live in Bjørvika. The Bjørvika must not become a small island, a kind of west edge on the east edge, which enhances the distance and difference in living conditions for those who live further east of the city. Bjørvika could be a great area, but it's important that we keep focus. The state must also have a clear strategy on what it wants to do with the area. In various ways, the state may influence infrastructure, the location of museums, the environment or housing, and there should be a clear direction towards everything that the state does with its many arms in the area. In this way, we can help to ensure that the city evolves according to a clear political will and a clear political direction, and not just as a result of coincidences and the short-sighted economic calculations of private developers. Finally, the representative Skei Grande was concerned that Oslo Arbeiderparti and Thorbjørn Berntsen wanted a port town. That's what we've been given to those degrees, because the Oslo Workers' Party realizes that port and train together are one of the best solutions we can have for a good climate and good transport in our city. So we've been able to get two things, both a fantastic fjord town and a fantastic port town.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1126	The name Bjørvika has roots in the north and means the village. Archaeological excavations indicate that there was a population where Alnaelva meets the Oslofjorden as early as the nineteenth century. The place was suitable, because it was communication- and military-good, and in addition it was west-facing and lunt. It's still like that. Communication is a focal point of Bjørvika for the whole of Norway. Important parts of this are Oslo S, one of Norway's largest road systems, and Oslo Port. There was disagreement about the port of Oslo City, but at last there was a majority in favour of Oslo continuing to be ported. It is good, because it would be bad environmental policy, poor transport policy and unhistorical to make us dependent on the port of Gothenburg, and transport all goods to and from Oslo by truck. With port in Oslo and new freight terminal in Alnabru, we will be able to get one of Europe's most environmentally friendly freight transport systems, boat freight, a well-functioning port with train connections and transhipment from rail to rail transport. That is good environmental policy. There's a lot to say about the history of the Left Leader. I agree that the Left would shut down the port and propose that the Munch Museum be moved from Tøen, and have been a reliable support party for a city council that has allowed commercial actors to dominate urban development in Oslo for many years. In 1999 it was decided that the Opera should be located in Bjørvika. The operation belongs to all of Norway. For Oslo, the decision to place the opera building was precisely where an important urban development operation. The Old Oslo area with its cultural diversity, its history and with its significant living conditions challenges has become home to the entire country's cultural metropolitan area. The Bjørvika extension is the biggest urban development issue since 1624. There's been a lot of commitment among the people most, and we who live in the area are proud of both the story and the amazing new neighborhood that is growing up. It will be established approx. 20 000 jobs and 5000 dwellings in Bjørvika. Building housing and jobs around Norway's busiest collective hub is a good environmental policy. People who live and work in Bjørvika will be able to rely on public transport – trains, trams, trams and buses. They'll be able to cycle to any other part of the Oslo Center. Bjørvika aims to be a leader in sustainable urban development in Europe. For example, when the Deichman library is to be built in Bjørvika, it will be. one of the most environmentally friendly buildings in the country. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the proposal for a new Munch museum. Lambda is a glass house, which leads to great energy use – insulation in winter and ventilation in summer. The Oslo Workers' Party believes the Munch Museum should remain on the Tøen, where it is today. And if it's going to be built in Bjørvika, we've thought that a new architectural competition should be announced, so that the building can have a different design. Lambda is an interesting building, but it's 14 stories high, and can become a mastodontic barrier between different parts of the Oslo Centre. The central actors in Bjørvika are Bjørvika Infrastuktur AS, Stadens vägvesen, Stadsbygg and Oslo Municipality at the Planning and Building Set, the Property and Urban Renewal Set and the Samferdssetaten. There are two dominant landowners and a number of private, municipal and state institutions that have interests in the area. It goes without saying that this has been and is a demanding collaboration, and that there is a need for coordination. The cultural memories in Bjørvika are of national interest. The Riksantikvaren has asked the Municipality of Oslo and the state owners think about it. He has warned against shutting the medieval city in. Here the capital of Norway was built in 1314. The Church of Mary, the Cathedral of Hallvard, the Church of Klemets and the cemetery in Gamlebyen are among the most important cultural memories of Norway's history. The Riksantikvaren has warned especially against building a continuous wall of buildings on eight to twelve floors in front of the Medieval Park. There's a warning there's reason to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1147	It is excellent that we use some of the Storting's time to discuss some of the most important things that happen in the country's most important city. It is also nice that the interpellant, Jan Bøhler, submits his interest. I have to say, however, that there are many of us who have worked with the Bjørvika plans and what is called a reconstruction of an old town, for many years, and have done it from other forums than this, namely Oslo City Council. What you might have wanted was that the interpellant had been something more precise about what problems he wants to address – we are now in an implementation phase, and it is not easy to steer urban development through an interpellant debate in the Grand Duchy during an implementation phase. But let me link some of the threads that have been drawn from other speakers. There are two main actors in this urban development, namely state and municipality, although they are important underachievers. The interests of the municipality are divided into two teams. One is, of course, the municipality that plans the area and the port interests, where the law says that there should be separate interests also financially. I must also remind you in this House that we would not have been able to transform the traditional port activities if the Workers' Party had won elections by election in the 1990s and the last decade, because there has been more effort to take care of industrial workplaces. Of course, that's an excellent purpose, but when it comes to building a modern city based on a modern business life, we get to record that it's been good for the city to have a bourgeois majority that has, over time, maintained a vision of a blue-green city and building an environmentally sound and sustainable modern city. Then, of course, there have been discussions about the content of this urban development, and it is natural that the interests have not always been coordinated from day one. But I think the grips that are done are right. I also think there has been a very important grip – since some speakers have been involved – that you move the Munch Museum from Tøen. I think that location deserves something better than just being a local debate in Oslo. It's a place of national importance, which also matters to who visits the city, and how to manifest an impression of the museum internationally. So I am glad that we get the Cultural History Museum, that Deichman gets his new building, that the Munch Museum comes into place next to the Opera – which is so far quite alone – and that we get the road traffic in a lower tunnel below. So I want to say, since there are many people who now show interest in the local conditions in Oslo, that the part of Bjørvika that you say is historical, is probably not Bjørvika, but Bispevika. One is also unprecise when talking about repatriation of a damaged traditional town, because what is the real Bjørvika – in a sense, according to local knowledge – is filling masses. There have never lived people and laborers in grey-legged farms. There has been a traffic machine that you wanted to lay out further in that part of Oslo port that had the least importance as the boats stuck deeper. Finally, it was only Holger Danske who could add outside the then East Railway. So it's great that after too much time with noisy surface car traffic, you get to put this in modern tunnels, and that we're building a new city for the 21st century, based on the technology we know, that's going to be a monument to our ability to plan and build a sensible urban center. The whole town is served by what's happening, and the whole country is served by what's now happening in Bjørvika.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1159	A few–three days ago I drove through the new lower tunnel. It was a pleasure to feel that the city is getting even more open areas – because when you lower the tunnel, it must mean that we will gradually remove the traffic machinery. We will remove a lot of other traffic on the ground, and those areas will then be parks, water mirrors – there will be cafes there, and there will be homes and not least business premises. It's very nice for Oslo citizens, but not least for people in the rest of the country, to see and experience and be part of. Then I have to say that I and SV in Oslo had wanted another type of exploitation of Bjørvika. We have to realize that it didn't go that way. We, especially I, experience that barcode is an exploitation that to some extent is a distinction between the sea and the city behind. We now hope that development will continue, and that Bjørvika will be built according to the principles that have been agreed many times by Oslo City Councillors, namely that as much of this area as possible will return to the city. It's going to be an open city. The Bjørvik must be opened, it must not be closed. It must not be the case that those who have the most money get involved, and that the rest of the city somehow pays the price – whether it is in the form of losing sight or by participating financially. One has to make sure that the coastline from Frogner to Nordstrand is continuous and open to the city's population. We have had many investigations and many debates on this in Oslo. The most important thing is that the Oslo people will appreciate that there will be a continuous coastline. It must not be – as a couple of others were in the past – that there will only be luxury dwellings and no reasonable dwellings in Bjørvika. It shouldn't be that we get a new Oslo west in the middle of Oslo. Oslo City Council has often adopted — and that decision needs to be implemented — that there should be reasonable housing in Bjørvika, so that there is a mixture of all types of people there. There are, as I said, many more people who pay the price for it than are going to buy these homes for millions of dollars. The most important thing I think you can do now is look at how we can lower all the tracks that divide the city physically – from Greenland and to the sea. The state council and the government that manages it will go into the history that maybe the one or those who have contributed very much in the city. It will release a lot of desirable plots, which can once again be used to embellish the city – by building parks and water tables – and to build schools and reasonable dwellings, preferably, and much more. They're sought after areas. It will also bind the city, Fjordbyen and fjord together with Greenland and Old Town, where there is a certain – let's say – threshold. One has to use the four generals to tie Greenland with Fjordbyen. If we can lower the tracks, the contact between these parts will be complete. Then the Old Town, Greenland and the new quarter will become one. I hope that the politicians in Oslo, the government and the state councils – and the Stortinget, not least – will see how we can take advantage of the beautiful area under the tracks, lower the tracks and tie the city together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1174	The representative Michael Tetzschner asked questions about whether it was interesting to have an interpellation debate about Bjørvika. To that I would say, yes, that's interesting, because Bjørvika and the Middle Ages have State and national interest. There are few places in the country where there are ruins of such a meaning as in the Middle Ages, Bjørvika and the surrounding area – with such visible and exciting remains of the power struggle between state and church, between king and bishop, like the centre of the medieval city of power, marked by magnificent churches and castle facilities as it was. The development of Bjørvika is therefore also a visualisation of the craftsmanship, living conditions and culture of the century, on which we are to take care – an illustration of Oslo and Norway’s identity, as Jan Bøhler, the interpellant, emphasised strongly. When Oslo celebrated its thousandth anniversary – of course, we can discuss whether it was – the electoral process turned people into historic places and landmarks. With jubilation Oslo rediscovered its origin, its cradle, namely the Old Town, the Middle Ages city, the sea side – the original Oslo. This area was, as several here probably remember, a garbage dump for several state traffic sites over decades, even over several hundred years. For years, the Bjørvika was perhaps the largest of all street children around Oslo S – orphaned and without support – who had, and have, the potential to become Oslo’s cultural pearl no. 1st@item: inlistbox Both the interpellant and the state councils have underlined the historical value of Bjørvika, the city under Ekeberg. It was the Old Oslo Workers' Party team, which has also been mentioned here before, that launched the idea of adding the Opera to this area. And let me add: there were other parties that were opposed, among other things. Right. They wanted the West Railway. But today the Opera is there, and state and municipality are developing the area. It wouldn't have happened if the Opera hadn't been added to Bjørvika, where it is now. Urban development is also exciting with a cultural axis along the fjord. On this basis, I too, like several others, would like to point out the importance of adding the Cultural History Museum to Bjørvika, as part of this cultural axis. It will also be an advantage for the museum to have the historical dissemination framework that the Medieval Park and the surrounding area will provide. A new and larger cultural historical museum will be a large audience attraction, with high numbers of visitors, and will be an important part of this cultural axis. I would like as much as I can encourage the Council of State – I ask him to listen to right now – to make sure to contribute to the cultural history museum being placed right there. It is also about urban development, about active urban development. It is important to provide the old medieval area with more cultural activities and activities. Finally, let me underline that developing Bjørvika, putting cultural institutions there, providing for the development of housing where all categories of people can live, is also an important part of strengthening Oslo's inner east and the balance between east and west in the city – part of making Oslo one city and removing the divided city.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1189	Bjørvika is a major and important project. There are many people who have already underlined. So this is a total expansion of almost 1 000 000 m2 of floor space. This is not just cultural policy – it is about housing, it is about business, it is about nightlife and experiences, and it is not least about traffic hub – the point of traffic where ports meet rail and road. A lot of criticism has been raised against the Bjørvika project. Some of the criticisms have been that too much is being built in Bjørvika. I totally disagree with that. The expansion density in Bjørvika is exactly the same as that in Grünerløkka, and I don't think anyone today would say that Grünerløkka – urban developmentally – is anything but a failure. It is also the case that the development must be of a certain extent in order to finance the infrastructure under it. It's about water and sewerage, it's about energy supply, it's about district heating, roads, all kinds of wires and not least parks. Jan Bøhler's initiative is very good. This gives us the opportunity to discuss this issue in Stortinget. Jan Bøhler asks what the Council of State will do to avoid decisions and debate happening piece by piece. I would say that Bjørvika is an example of a comprehensive planning that has definitely not been broken and divided. It was presented to Oslo City Council in 2001 as a matter of principle on the development of Bjørvika. It was about both urban development and, not least, organisational and economic. Then the Planning and Building Council took the advice of the City Council and presented a regulatory plan for the whole of Bjørvika, which was dealt with in the summer of 2003. So that's seven years ago. If we're going to talk about it piece by piece, I have to say that the best environmental protection minister can do is ask the Riksantikvarten to calm down a little bit. So it's been seven years since the regulation plan for Bjørvika was adopted, and that's when the Riksantikvaren interferes with this. The best thing to do to continue this overall planning that doesn't happen piece by piece and piece is to let the Municipality of Oslo take the initiative and the leadership. There is nowhere in Norway where there is equivalent competence in metropolitan development to that of the municipality of Oslo. The State has no such competence. Therefore, it is important for the purposes of Bjørvika development that it is Oslo municipality that decides, and that it is Oslo municipality that can be responsible for the overall planning, as the interpellant calls for. As far as conservation is concerned, I have to say that the Municipality of Oslo has an active conservation policy, to put it mildly. It is a separate establishment – the Oslo City Antique product – that maintains the order of protective and peaceful objects in Oslo. All of this is listed in the Yellow List of the City Antiquities. The last time we picked up – it was in February – contained the 12,478 elements that are regulated for preservation, they are protected for various reasons, peace or for other reasons listed on the Yellow List of the City Antiquities. There are 500 more than last year's harvest. So the city's product has an activity of conservation in Oslo that's impressive, maybe a little too impressive is what some people say. So my conclusion is that the Bjørvika project has started very well. Modern urban development policies have been guided to ensure that development is on track, and it is going to be a great part of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1211	First, I would like to say to the representative Myhre, who mentioned this with overall planning, that I think it is in many ways right that much of this overall planning has been as the representative described. But one of the things that has triggered the recent debate is that the City Council and the majority of the City Council themselves have made changes to the plans they dealt with at the time. Then it was about this Paulsenkaia, where this Lambda is located, which was regulated into aquarium/cultural building. An aquarium would also be an important attraction for the Municipality of Oslo to have in the port area, which has been discussed for decades. It was regulated at a maximum of six stories. It was this 14-storey built there that was the beginning of many of these discussions, and that has created a greater insight into the historical space we have to develop in this part of the city – where there can be some important things to do in the future. In particular, the Construction Plans for Kongsbakken will be discussed in 2018. There's a room for action that I think all the parties in the city council will be concerned about looking forward, which we've also been in for today, about the medieval park and the fjord. There are many questions that have been raised here today within the framework of what I think it is important that the Storting discusses. There are more things than what has been said that will come up in the years to come. An example is the two-track rail to Ski – the new railway solution there – and how to do it through this area. Another example is that of Wickholm and others in terms of track solutions and the development of the Central Station, and the question of what to do in the next transport plan in terms of coalverts and solutions for the streets of Kong Håkon 5. The question is how to get an area with a complex population and not create new differences by, for example: actions that can help the Student Cooperation to establish several student housing in the area of infrastructure grants or what those grants may be called. So there's a lot of questions. The Councils of State included: how the Cultural History Museum can become an experience museum – a new dimension in relation to what it has been like on Tullin onions and how we traditionally know historical museums. It's a very uplifting way of thinking, which also requires close interaction between the state and the municipality. I have to say, I think there are uplifting dimensions in the debate, and I hope that it can be the beginning of a stronger commitment to look at some of these future issues that lie 20-30 years ahead of time, where these different choices are to be taken. It is a very good start to the development of the Bjørvika area, which I also underlined, both by the state, with its great grip, and by the Municipality of Oslo, but there are some road choices forward that we should be aware of, and that we have also been involved in this debate. I thank all those who have contributed here, and that we can draw attention to issues relating to the capital, also here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1226	There were initially questions as to whether this debate belonged in the main hall. It must be obvious that when we build a medium-sized Norwegian city, the debate on it in itself hears at home in the main hall. In addition to that, when we do it in one of Norway's three historic centres, the crucial areas for defining Norway's history – not Oslo's history, but Norway's history – it has to belong in the main hall and that we have a debate about it. I'm not going far into polemics, but Trine Skei Grande had a strange notion that I should have spoken negatively about her township Old Town. I haven't done that at all. On the contrary, without boasting too much, I am almost sure that I have lived longer on the east edge of Oslo than Trine Skei Grande. It's not about it at all. The old town is a fantastic city for those who live there. But there is no awareness in the population of Oslo that the Bjørvika and Old Town areas are a historical centre for Norway, just as every trombone will think of the Nidarosdom and the Archdiocese and every mountain will think of the Bridge. It is not rare to meet people in this city who have not even been there! [[State councils point]] If you look in that direction Then I agree with Michael Tetzschner, who made a historical clarification. It is true that what is now Bjørvika in the meaning of the Opera was under water for hundreds of years, and only gradually has become part of the city. We see this as a coherent area, where the whole of Bjørvika up towards the Medieval Park, towards the Water table, towards the Church of Mary and the Old Town must become a coherent area for culture, housing, etc. Peter N. Myhre was here something more cautious in his report of the Riksantikvaren than in the media – I appreciate that. But it is not right that the Riksantikvarn is only now starting to take an interest in Bjørvika. The Riksantikvarbet, with all national products, has been engaged and an important participant in this all the time. We've got a new activist ricksantikvar, who's been involved in the case on a new basis because the Municipality of Oslo has changed the assumptions and thus provided the basis for the Riksantikvar to create the debate that's a lot of the reason why we're discussing this here today. It's been a very nice debate. And I'd like to end by saying that more people have been involved in what Akhtar Chaudhry was talking about, namely that new Bjørvika has to be an open city. I see that as an open city in both a geographical and a physical sense, which opens Oslo up to the port, towards the sea, and gets good visibility, and also as an open city in a social policy sense, not only for people who can afford to live there, but as much as possible a city for all kinds of people both to live, to run business and to come to visit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1245	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1261	Today’s predatory policies shall ensure a sustainable population of the individual predators and a continued active and versatile use of the land resources and a living community. The management shall focus on different interests in different areas. Preventive and anti-conflict measures shall contribute to the reduction of the losses of buff and tamrein. Both quota hunting and fallowing shall contribute in the same direction. Experience in the years since the settlement of predators has shown that it has not been possible to bring about the tranquillity around the predatory problem that was the aim of this. In several municipalities that are within the management zones of wild game populations, there is a sense of being overrun by the big society. Buildings have to pay the whole price to have sustainable predatory wildlife populations. Lack of ability to take out predators who behave threateningly or do harm gives a sense of powerlessness that reduces the quality of life in everyday life. Local communities feel that they have little influence on their living conditions. Several observed predators, more killed or severely injured dogs and other domestic animals are reported as being the result of predator attacks. Many people feel that the basis of nutrition is being torn away from them. Although compensation is granted, it is a strong experience to see their sheep and lambs or reindeer calves torn in pieces year after year. The experience of not taking the situation seriously is being reinforced. Several municipalities in the areas where the predatory game species are managed are districts that make them attractive residential areas and reverse the migratory flow. Predators around the house wall seem threatening to attract new residents. Importers who are not used to living with predators feel uncertainties in their everyday lives. In particular, this applies to families with children. The rapprochement was concluded in May 2004. The aim of the agreement was to meet Norway’s international obligations to ensure the survival of the large predators, while at the same time preserving human living conditions and the potential to continue to have active off-road industries. The predatory agreement set a target for the large predators. It was for bear 15 youngsters, wolf 3 youngsters, gloat 65 youngsters and yerv 39 youngsters. Several of these predators at the time had a lower population than what was set as a target. Therefore, it was conscious that some animal species were allowed to grow in numbers. After the stock target was reached, the agreement required the launch of a means of keeping stocks down. In 2009, between 81 and 92 family groups of gaupe were recorded on a national basis. It's equivalent to between 477 and 543 individuals, and it's far beyond the goal of survival. Data from the national surveillance programme for wild game give an estimate of the winter population of yorks in Norway of about 330 individuals on a national basis in the period 2007–09. In 2009, 53 juveniles of yorks were recorded in total in Norway. This is also far beyond the stock target. In region 6, which includes Central Norway, 26.5 family groups were registered in the winter of 2009. The stock target is here at 12 young people. This figure has grown every year from 15 in 2007, 23 in 2008 and thus 26.5 in 2009. Why 0.5 I don't have an explanation for, but that's probably the statistics. This is a significant increase in population over time, and it has resulted in enormous problems for grazing users and not least for southern reindeer farming. Very many believe that it is very critical when the Ministry of the Environment intervenes and makes it difficult for the regional wild game to reduce the incidence of gloat against the stock target. An important element in St.meld. No 15 for 2003–04 and the ‘Bigtinget agreement’ increased local autonomy in predatory game policy and differentiated management of the various predatory game species based on different zones. Today, quota hunting is the main instrument in the stock management of gaupe. Quota hunting on gaupe is an ordinary game hunt based on the law of the wild. The quota shall be determined by the name of the predator in each management region. In addition, licensing of gaupe has been opened, which is motivated by the need to reduce damage. The regulation on the management of wild game is responsible for the adoption of quota decisions for hunting gaupe if the population is above the national target for gaupe in the region. In consultation with the Secretariat, predatory game subjects in region 6 set up a hunting quota that most likely would bring the population down to the stock target. This local discretion was overestimated by the Ministry of the Environment, and hunting quotas were reduced. This is a strong breach of trust between the administration and local communities in region 6. When the State Secretary makes a statement that she is perceived as considering the stock targets to be a minimum measure, this is, of course, a separate interpretation of the predatory settlement. I, the undersigned, consider it very important that the agreement on predators be managed in line with the intentions and ask the Council of State to explain the official views of the department on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1289	In Soria Moria II, the government has taken the view that the main features of the 2004 Robbery Agreement are to be continued as a basis for the management of wild game in Norway. The reason for this is, as I've been within quite a lot of times in Stortinget, the two-part, but difficult objective of viable predatory game populations and farming based on grazing in land. Let me again stress that this is an incredibly difficult combination, and we're almost alone in the world to have this combination. There are some places where grazing is used, but with active guessing, which puts them in a separate situation, with countries like Sweden, which have given priority to predators for all practical purposes. But having this two-part goal is hard. I think a large part of the Biggest also accepts that. Through the predatory game agreement, there were set targets for you, gaupe, bear and wolf divided into eight predatory game regions. The stock of wild game shall be managed in such a way that the number of juveniles is as close as possible to the nationally determined stock target. The national stock target for yerv and gupe of 39 and 65 annual juveniles, respectively, is per year. today, while we have not yet reached the stock target for bear of 15 annual juveniles and for wolf of 3 annual juveniles in the management area of breeding wolf. The interpellant said there has been no peace on predatory policies after the predatory settlement. I don't think anyone can expect that. I don't think we'll ever be able to calm down on predatory policies in the foreseeable future, because there's just a real conflict between different interests and difficult balances. But it is also an area where there is a dwindling majority of the population behind the Government and the majority of the population, including the Right, line – what is called a tacit majority – that wants this two-part objective maintained. The reason we have conflicts even though much is done is precisely because we succeed in getting more predators in Norwegian nature. This will, of course, also lead to conflicts. By the end of 2010, the government will invite Stortinget to a broad settlement on stock targets for wolves and bears, while there is no new assessment of stock targets for yerv and yerv. Let me again underline to the interpellant that we are based on a policy that the Right has been involved in designing. When it's said that the drama has increased, it's because through the policies that the Right and the Great Britain have coexisted, we have succeeded in increasing the population of wild game. At the same time, the government has stepped up its efforts for conflict prevention. From the level it was at when the Right sat in government – I take a number now out of the air – I think it's tripled. So there's a fantastic increase in the number of measures taken to reduce the conflicts around this. It is the regional predators who are responsible for the implementation of national policies within their region. Given the achievement of the stock target for the region, it is therefore responsible for maintaining the populations of wild game at the level laid down by the Stortinge. Roofers are responsible for prioritising preventive and conflict mitigation measures and for managing the various hunting and killing regimes for predatory game in the region. The predators have developed regional management plans for predatory game based on the national targets for the individual predatory game species in the region. The management plan contains specific guidelines for the geographical area differentiation for the region and provides the basis for evaluation, inter alia. the use of preventive and anti-conflict instruments and the geographical distribution of hunting quotas. Where the population of each species is above the nationally determined population targets for the region, the predators shall have the power to take quota decisions for hunting and killing. The size target for gaupe has been reached throughout the country. The quotas for hunting for gaupe in 2010 were therefore fixed by the regional pollinators. For the purpose of establishing allowances, the administrative authority shall ensure that the stock after the next generation will continue to meet the stock target of the region. Here I'm going to think about what's the most concrete thing about the interpellant's questions. The population of gaupe is now close to the population target for most regions, meaning ‘near’ above the population target, but very close. The exception is region 6 – Møre and Romsdal, Süd-Trøndelag and Nord-Trøndelag – where the number of family groups has increased in recent years. As a result of the growing population, the ratios of gaupe hunting on a national basis were overall high this year. It was opened for the killing of a total of 149 animals, 58 of which were female gauntlets. This is the largest quota set since the introduction of quota hunting in gaupe in Norway in 1994. There is once again an indication that the policy is working. We've had an increased population as a result of a correct policy, in line with the bulk of the population. But it also opens up for considerable hunting, since a large stock can be hunted more. A review of the 2010 quota hunt shows that there was a nationally high number of gauges, a total of 134. That's the highest fallout in Norway since the mid-19th century. So once again, we have a lot of predators because the policy works, but it also provides the basis for a bigger hunt. We have to go back almost 150 years to find something similar. Most of the gauges were dropped in region 6. It is expected that this year's off-takes will reduce the population down to the stock target also in region 6. As the Board of Appeal for the decisions taken by the robbers, the Ministry of the Environment receives several complaints each year about killing decisions and hunting quotas, and we need to make a concrete assessment in all these cases. In the vast majority of cases, the decision of the predatory person remains. Let me stress: it's exceptional that we don't follow the wild game subjects. In the case of Gupep hunting quotas in 2010, the Ministry of the Environment found it necessary to convert the decision into a wild game name in region 6 by reducing the female animal quota while maintaining the total quota. For all the other regions, the seven others, the decision of the predatory person stood. The Ministry considers that the female animal quota set in region 6 would result in a significant likelihood that the stock target in the region will not be met after the youth of the year. Following the end of the quota hunt on 31 March, six globs of the hunting quota remained for the region, four of which were females. I am concerned that predator management should have a solid knowledge-based anchoring and, in the follow-up to the individual items of the Government Declaration, a broad process of stakeholder involvement will be facilitated. In this context, predators will also play a central role. The Ministry of the Environment has set up a joint meeting of wild game subjects in all the eight regions as early as next week. Furthermore, a visit round is planned for all the predatory game regions during the spring and summer, where mainly State Secretary Heidi Sørensen will participate. There will be a wide-ranging debate. I myself want to travel to Hedmark in May and have a meeting with the predatory wildlife subject there, since Hedmark is the county where there have been the strongest conflicts of predatory policy. But it's not a demeanor for anyone, of course we're also going to discuss this with Uppland, Nord-Trøndelag and the many other states where these are relevant questions. Since southern Sami issues were also mentioned, I would say that we set up a group in the North Trondelag to look at southern Sami issues related to predator policy in particular. A lot of positive has come out of that process. I hope that this will help us to find solutions that the Southern Sami population can both live with and find sensible, in combination with meeting the national targets in this area. Finally, I would like to stress that predatory wildlife subjects have a central role in predatory game management. I am very pleased that today we have reached the nationally determined stock target for both gaupe and york in all administrative regions, and it is the responsibility of predators to strive to regulate the stocks so that they are as close to the stock targets of the region as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1324	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I appreciate that he said that predator management is a difficult balance. I think we all agree on that. That there are different views, we also agree. That the predatory management in Norway is also in line with the view of the Right, votes. What we feel is not in line with Right View, is that the population has increased significantly over the stock target. As I said earlier, it has been proven that the globular population is 40 pst. on the stock targets. In other words, the predators have managed the gauntlet so that the population counts 150 more hoops than what we should have had, if they had done their job. On the other hand, the Nature Conservation Association believes that predators run a destructive administration and have gone beyond their authority by adding 87 killing permits over four years, while, in reality, 150 globs jump too much here in the country, from the stock target. When the predatory game subject set the quota in 2010, there was an attempt to reach the stock target based on an extremely high level of injury and on the results of a public report on southern Sami domestic drift. So this is going to apply to area 6. The countyman in the North Trondelag pointed out that the professional advice they had given earlier was incorrect. At the same time, emphasis was placed on the loss of 65 pst at the reindeer trials at Verrafjellet. by their last year. But the Nature Conservation Association complained, and it was listened to. The Ministry of the Environment then intervened and changed the allowances. Hardly has any management measures in Norway caused as much suffering as when wolves, bears, gloats and yurts were released on grazing animals. It was the will to do the combination, as the Council of State says, but that the result should be as it has been, I would not have expected. The state itself, by the Food Authority, calls its own policy animal abuse, but overturns responsibility on the farmers by refusing them to let animals go. Then it's going to be hard. That's why there might be a need for natural intervention, i.e. fences, and it's not a great natural intervention either, as far as we can judge. The question was what was the official view of the department as to whether the stock target was a minimum target. Now when the Council of State says that we've filled the stock because it's over or equal, it suggests that the Council of State interprets it the same way, so it can't be under, it's equal or above. We thought the goal is to try to approach from both sides, not that it's a minimum goal. We have had many predators because politics has worked, says the Council of State. Yes, but we also have too many because it hasn't worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1344	I was happy to hear Myraune say in the beginning that this is a difficult balance. It's doubtful, and that the right is behind the predatory settlement that the party was involved in, is also a very nice thing, as so often from the Right representatives in different ways, questioning what you used to be involved in. But this was positive. So I think we have to admit that having predators in nature leads to suffering. It can and must, as rarely as possible, lead to suffering in grazing animals. If this does not lead to suffering in grazing animals, it leads to suffering in other prey animals. It's part of nature that we just have to accept, even though it may feel problematic. In the case of grazing animals, we shall avoid the many measures that we put in place and that have largely mitigated the conflicts. I would like to underline an important point, and that is that policy must be knowledge-based. This is an area where a lot of claims are made, both from professionals and from individuals and others, and it turns out that if you go into it thoroughly, it's no easy task to know exactly how many predators there are in an area. But the more knowledge-based policy, the more precise and better it gets. This is also why many measures are launched that some question. The A magazine had a big review of the wolf policy last week asking questions about whether it really is necessary to go to work so thoroughly to mark animals and control them. And of course, you do that in order to get more accurate knowledge. The more knowledge-based it becomes, the easier it will be to set population targets. But nature is an unpredictable and difficult matter, and absolute precision in the stock targets is not possible. I don't think we're going to go into what I see as a kind of special interpretative science. The government's policy is to stay close to the goals. That's why they're true. And absolute precision is not possible. But it's not a goal to go far beyond the stock targets, as it's supposed to be. We're going to stick around the stock targets. Then the representative came with an attack – or two or three – on the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature. It'll be answered by the Federation of Nature Conservation. We regard the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature as an important organisation with views on Norwegian predatory policies, but we also listen to organisations that have the exact opposite starting point, such as Norway. The public reaction to a new predatory policy. Critics from all sides are cordially welcome to participate in the debate. The Nature Conservation Association is one of many important bodies involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1360	I recently had the joy of attending a meeting to listen to the foreign communities' challenges. Let me just make a statement right away: the frustration and the rascal were tangible, but also fully understandable. Nutrient and residentially, there are limited areas of action for these inhabitants to take advantage of the opportunity to house nature, and under a framework and a room of opportunity they are given. Just the framework conditions are a challenge for those who are trying to keep a living in District Norway. As a former self-afraid man on an ice-cream far up in the West, I have known it myself on the body when the caffè latte environment and the Greenpeace linked themselves to the shot to prevent a good and defensive hoarding of what nature could give. So the conditions for having a living for those who have to live on what nature has to give are administered in many ways by those who have the least connection to the area that it is in, but are occupied by a lack of which they do not see the back of. The current holding of the government, an active animal husbandry and a predatory animal within the same geographical area are found to be impracticable. Domestic animals become prey. The government's belief in preventive and anti-conflict measures is difficult to transfer to the wolf, bear, yerv and yerv in search of food. And the authorities' willingness to be quick out with permission to trap pests has several times defined the extent of the damage, but also there the field industry feels that they are failing, because it is not reacting fast enough. Robbery policy is, to many people's mind, out of control; others think he's relatively unproblematic. But one thing cannot be swept under the carpet, and that is that he is characterized by a strongly increasing conflict. Those who live in predatory areas and draw their income from nature-based industries experience the pressure from predators as a threat to their way of life, while the protection interests think that people's way of life must give way to the place of predators in our nature. Let me just say once and for all that our sympathy is on the local industry side. When the Norwegian church with the bishops now comes on the track and prays for the grazing animals, most of it says about a mismanagement. The number of grazing animals that have to be replaced now is actually at a record height of 55,000, with the suffering in this situation. Then the conclusion for most is very close. The party of progress also believes, and will stress, that predatory policies are completely flawed. The Progress Party is also aware that the local management level should have greater space and authority in the management of natural resources. Local democracy's place in the overall administration is, in our opinion, too weak, and in general we will say that the districts need to have room for action for the use and protection of their own natural resources to a far greater extent than they have today. As political editor of the newspaper Nordlys said at a conference recently, the districts must be protected from the protective mafia, represented by Heidi Sørensen & Co. So the goal is meaningless, and the count of the populations is generally not good enough. Lars Myraune gave a detailed introduction to the number saying, so I'm not going to repeat it, but I fully support it. The question that remains, and which was raised also during the conference with the field industry, is where is the party to ring around the district, where is the Centre party in this matter? And once again, we see a government party rushing from promises given in the election campaign and not standing by what one has promised there. It does not help to increase respect for the political reputation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1383	It is obvious that the wishes of the great community sometimes conflict with the rights of individuals and local communities. When I hear a councillor saying that calm, no one can expect it, I wonder, why not? I must say that I am surprised that you can say from the Parliamentary Chair that it is a 'wonderful majority' for. If you're talking about a good democracy, it's actually having the ability to listen to those who are affected. There is at least nothing that creates more conflict than to humiliate a ‘wondering majority’ in the head of those affected. I think it's an incredible arrogance to show the minority, and I'd like to ask if the council doesn't have the ability to get into the situation where you really feel that the house is being confiscated and you get a ban on work – and then you get nothing left. There is no doubt that there are so many people involved in District Norway who really feel that they are being treated. I must say, I am amazed. I've had more debates with the Council of State about this here, and when you've been sitting in that position for four and a half years and not yet clear to get into what each individual feels, and still use the 'thundering majority' as a term, it's a sign that you don't have the ability to get into the situation of those who are actually affected. A large, untouched majority doesn't mean you can ignore the effects you have on the minority. Then I agree with the Council of State that you should have a solid knowledge-based basis for what you do. Then I wonder where the local knowledge of this is. It is completely ignored. I think the Directorate for the Role of Nature Management is very central. It is obvious that DN lacks a political corrigendum to carry out its role with a certain legitimacy and a certain credibility out locally. They tend to address policy issues with clear points of view. They make bombastic and rather undocumented claims about sensitive themes, and they emphasize those parts of Bigton's settlements that they themselves like. I have a good example of it locally, where last week DN had a briefing with the journalistic team, even, on predatory game policy, and the headline was that the goals were being achieved. Then the goal was the only one mentioned. There was no indication that the level of conflict was much greater. It was a prerequisite in Stortinget that the level of conflict should fall. We have not heard a signal from DN that the level of conflict is high. It was not a word about a two-part objective. In my area, which is the eastern part of Hedmark, the two-part goal is a joke. The nutritional basis has been shifted to many people, and the quality of life of many communities has been affected by the policies pursued. Not a word from DN about it. And you ignore what was also the Storting's assumption, and it was that the load should be reduced in the areas where you had already had the greatest load. The management is very much about concentrating the load. So to another thing that the Council of State was up to, this by reducing the conflict. All right. And he boasted of the measures put into action. One of the measures is glare projects. If anyone other than the environmental movement had found something like this, it would have been banned. I, as a forest owner, can't build a forest road according to the criteria that you build predators around in Norwegian nature. I'm sure of that. And what about free movement and universal access to land, when you're going to have power fences around Norwegian nature? It is not entirely conflictless either. But not a word from DN about those sides of the case. It is absolutely incredible that the Council of State does not soon begin to focus a little critically on its own, and ends up flying around and thundering the unspoiled majority's opinions in the head of those who are being affected. That's when you grow the conflict, and it's going to be even bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1398	The Council of State said that Norway is alone in the world to combine grazing and predators. I suppose that alone is something very strongly said, but at least I should stress that it is demanding – yes, because wolf is impossible. There are previous writings that have described this very precisely. Why is it particularly demanding in Norway? Yes, because Norway has a completely different tradition from the European one in terms of pasture grazing with grazing animals. And it is, to use the concept of the Council of State, ‘a dwindling majority’ behind increased pasture use, because there are ecological considerations and food quality considerations that require increased pasture grazing from grazing animals. Thus, the conflicting consideration becomes even more demanding. The centre party agrees with the importance of knowledge-based policies. Knowledge is practical and theoretical knowledge. What many people feel out in the countryside is that we must ensure respect for the values, views and suggestions of the villagers, for this conflict we have all over the country, from the bear in Pasvik, where theoretical knowledge says there are 50 individuals, but only one young bear – something strange from the views of the villagers up there – to the conflicts with the wolf tribe in Halden. Section 3 of the Rovvilt Regulation lays down the stocking targets as determined in the robberies agreement. It says: ‘In Norway, there shall be 65 young gupe, 39 young yerv, 15 young bear. There shall be 3 annual young wolves in the management area of the breeding wolf». The wording of the regulation is to be understood in such a way that there is a fixed level, i.e. neither fewer nor more animals. This is in line with the intention of balancing two considerations with a view to achieving a two-fold objective of both viable predatory wildlife populations and the maintenance of outland-based industries. The balance between the two considerations and objectives in the agreement will be distorted if the stock targets are considered as minimum targets and not a desired level. When stocks are above the stock targets, there is also another management regime in order to maintain the balance of the day. There will then be a lower threshold for the authorisation of traps, and licence and quota hunting can be opened to regulate the stock. Understanding that the stock target is a desired level and not a minimum is also at the root of the political platform of the current government. In Soria Moria II, the chapter on the management of predators states that: ‘Raw game management is carried out in such a way that the number of juveniles is kept as close to the stock target as possible’. Today's predatory interpellation applies to gloat. There is a consensus that there is a viable gloupe strain in Norway. The evidence is that this year’s quota is the maximum quota set since the introduction of quota hunting in gaupe in Norway in 1994. One of the backgrounds of today's interpellation is the situation in central Norway, or precisely, the area of predatory game in region 6 for which More and Romesdal, South Trøndelag and Nord-Trøndelag are responsible. Here the number of family groups has increased considerably in recent years, so that the population is much higher than the population target. Therefore, the predatory game denominator established a higher rate of killing, including an increased number of females. The decision was then appealed to the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment converted the Decision by reducing the female animal quota within the same total quota. Since young females are born, the environmental protection ministry's quota determination led to a higher rate of future youth than that of predatory game subjects. This led to strong negative reactions in those who are under stress, namely grazing users in the broad sense. Here we are at the heart of the matter. There's a number of 65 young gaupe in the roaring game regulation. The Ministry of the Environment says that we do not have a minimum target for juveniles, but in practice it will be a minimum target because the Ministry of the Environment follows the Council of the Directorate for Nature Management which says that if there is a year chance of having one juvenile below the stock target, the Ministry of the Environment cannot allow such a female animal quota. The opinion of the centre party is that the stock target must be understood in such a way that the number of globular glaucoma has to be surveyed over several years. If the hunting quota for female gilts would lead to a reduction in the number of juveniles below the target, the only consequence would be to reduce the hunting quota next year, as if the number of juveniles above the stock target, the hunting quota will be increased next year. In view of the conflict between globular and grazing in central Norway, especially in view of the interests of southern semen, it is important that such an understanding of the target population is practised for the next year. This will reduce the conflict, and predatory policy will stand firmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1428	I thank you again for the answer from the Council of State and stress that livestock on pasture will not suffer, but that other animals will have to suffer. Yes, I think it's part of nature that those who are the highest on the scale have the ability to supply themselves with others. That's what makes them supply livestock too. When it becomes too many, it becomes complicated. The Council of State says that he does not see the objective as absolute in such a context, but does not want to go high above it either. It was a pleasure to hear. As far as the core of the interpellation is concerned, it was whether one could approach the stock target from below or above. But when it's understood in such a way that one has to approach it only from above, in our opinion it becomes different from what was intended. And then the Council of State says there were several attacks on the Federation of Nature Conservation. I'll refute that. I do not believe that any of the things I said about the Nature Conservation Association, as an attack on them, but that they had expressed themselves on a failing basis in some context. I still stand for that. The Gundersen was under the pressure of the community. It is quite clear that there is no small burden on the community beyond the district of Norway today, and it may do so that if we don't manage to enforce this in such a way that we meet it after the intentions, I don't ignore the fact that it will be topical to launch a debate on the predatory settlement as such, because no evaluation of the stock has been carried out, as I see it. It might be in its place. And powerhouses, of course, it's no fun meeting out on the ground when you're going to go for a round. If you, for example, talking about Verrafellet, as I mentioned in my previous post, it is clear that there will be a mile-long fence that prevents the population from getting into the terrain in several ways without effort. Lundtägen was in the pasturage, and it's a very important part of this. I thank you for that. We can imagine that if you come to the step that you can't have livestock on pasture anymore, the Kingdom of Norway will look completely different in the future. Then we get a nature that's about cultivated land on the flatland, and then we get forest on the rest. I don't think any of us are happy about that. Navarsete said after agreement on Soria Moria II, that there would be a changed predatory policy. That doesn't seem to have happened. Finally, I would like to ask the State Council to clarify whether you are approaching the stock target from below and above, or only from above.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1449	Let me thank the interpellant Myraune for a positive and constructive tone in the debate. As I see it, we agree on far more than it might seem. There is agreement on the dual objective of predators and grazing animals. There is agreement to strive for knowledge-based management, as far as it can be done at all. It is a consensus on the very central importance of predators, and I stress that it is an exception that we have set aside their decision. There should be no rule in any way. There's a base arrow in the entire predator management. We want to get back to Stortinget with more material about this, which would make the Stortinget look at it all over again, and we're going to approach – I don't want to go further into that debate – but we're going to approach the stock targets. In the case of y'all and y'all, we've reached them, and for the others we have to reach them. I also think that the Right could give it recognition that we have actually achieved significant results for what is Right's policy, as defined in the predatory settlement. Gaupe populations have grown, creating difficulties and conflicts. There is no reason to hide it, but it has provided the basis for a much larger hunt. So this demonstrates that politics is working. And once again, this is a policy based on something the Right has agreed on. Then I'm a little tired of Gundersen's constant attempt to doubt my credibility and my sensitivity to the villagers. I don't understand why he's doing it every time we discuss this. But now leave it. If you can't bring factual elements into the debate, it's a familiar tactic just to doubt the motives of their political opponents. I listen to the villagers all the time, I also listen to the villagers, and I even listen to foreigners. Let me tell Lundtegen that the description given by how unique Norway is can be discussed, but Norway is very special in its dual objective here. I still remember well when we had some French people up in Gudbrandsdalen. They got all over wild sauce, as they called it, which was so common Norwegian sheep. They ran out and were going to take pictures of these wild saws, which in turn illustrates that we are special by having this. Finally, something that has been a repetition of the debate, and it is the attack of the Progress Party on the caffè latte culture and playing on all prejudices in Bygde-Norway against Oslo and the cities. Strangely enough, the politicians of the Advance Party do not run around the cities with all this. I never hear this from the politicians of the Progress Party in Bergen, Trondheim or Oslo. Caffè latte is now widely spread in the country. I was at the old melting plant in Odda fourteen days ago, and there they had a series of coffee varieties on the wall that I had never heard of. And I've lived 15 years on Grünerløkka.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1465	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e1471	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e2929	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e2939	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e2946	During the debate, the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 13 June 1969 No. 26 on compensation for damages is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e2988	During the debate, Mr Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The government is asking the government to propose that chemical castration be introduced as a criminal reaction for use in cases where some are convicted of sexual abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e3022	In the course of the debate, Mr Dahl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for the establishment of a comprehensive and interdisciplinary national centre for combating trafficking in human beings and child abuse, in accordance with the model of the British CEOP Centre.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e3050	During the debate, the representative Per Sandberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e3102	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-29.ana.ud2632e3114	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
