ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e34	Mr Dagfinn Højbråten has applied for leave from 29 November to 3 December in order to attend meetings of Kigali in Rwanda in connection with his employment in the GAVI vaccine fund. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative of the Rogaland County, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e52	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e55	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Ingerd Schou and myself, I would like to propose clearer guidelines for national tests to ensure comparable results between schools and the participation of as many students as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e60	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e63	I am delighted to present proposals on behalf of the representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Oskar J. Grimstad, Harald T. Nesvik, Tord Lien and myself on the start-up of mobile gas power plants in periods of power losses and/or high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e68	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. According to the decision of the closed meeting recently held in Stortinget, the matter was listed as case No on the agenda of the closed meeting. 1 on the amended agenda No 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e82	Under the seventh paragraph of Section 13 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the proceedings begin with a statement by the Minister of Defence, followed by a debate. At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the Council of State Grete Faremo. While the Council of State goes up to the pulpit, the President will only clarify that the lines to be taken follow a later intervention by the Council of State in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e97	I've been asked to explain the situation in Homeland Protection and the significance of Defence. The Home Guard is one of the main pillars of the Norwegian defense. That's how it's been for many years, and that's how it will remain. At the same time, the Homeland Protection of today is something quite different from Homeland Protection during the Cold War. The defence is fundamentally relocated to a new era, and Home Protection has been a very important part of this transition. Today, we have a home protection system that is both present in all parts of the country, which can react quickly, and which every day performs tasks that are relevant to today’s challenges. Just as we've got an intervention defense in general, we've got an intervention shelter in particular. This conversion has been widely agreed upon in Stortinget. The tasks assigned to the Home Office may become even more important in the coming years. Essentially, this has to do with the current and future safety picture, with far more complex risks than before. These are risks arising from a changed global security image and new threats. These often go across the traditional distinction between military and civil security. Today, the Home Guard Districts are taking local territorial land responsibility at the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters. This implies that Home Security is given responsibility for local planning and management of operations. It also involves day-to-day responsibility for cooperation with civil partners and local authorities. Today's shelter is also locally anchored, but at the same time it has the ability to react quickly and with modern material and new vessels during phase-in. Home protection is visible in society, binds military and civil protection and unites land, air and maritime protection in a joint mission. Today, the main tasks of home security are to contribute to the protection of important infrastructure and to support national crisis management. Where necessary, the Home Guard shall enhance military presence in all parts of the country. Home protection shall be capable of providing, inter alia: reinforced border guard, strength protection, protection of national forces and reception of allied reinforcements. In addition, the competence and capacities of home security have been much sought in recent years in our operations abroad. Our major contributions to foreign operations have become dependent on this. In addition, home protection is also provided through this important competence. Home security also has important tasks to support the work of civil society security and to provide assistance in the event of crises in society. This assistance includes primarily watchkeeping and securing key features and infrastructure. The management of terrorist threats or terrorist attacks is primarily the task of the police, but will, at the request of the police, be managed with the support of the Defence. For the Home Guard, it is only a matter of assistance in the context of anti-terrorism – i.e. more defensive actions – mainly in the form of security and security. For example, PRMs from the territorial structure participated in securing the entrance and exit axes of Oslo Airport Gardermoen when the President of the United States visited Norway to receive the Peace Prize. In the case of aid for the execution of counter-terrorism operations, i.e.: offensive operations against terrorists are a task of the Defence Special Forces. No law enforcement forces have such a mission. Let me go against this backstop and explain the political basis for today's modern home protection, and then for today's status and, finally, challenges to the goals set for Home Security in the long-term plan for 2009–2012. I'm already using this opportunity initially to remind you that we're not yet halfway through the current long-term, so it shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone that we also have challenges to meet in a planned way in the coming years. So a little bit about the development of Homeland Protection from around 2000. Overall questions about the organisation and development of Home Affairs are firmly anchored by prior treatment in the Stortinget. The big changes in the Defence began at the beginning of the 2000s. Arbitration governments have therefore implemented the conversion in accordance with the Central Decision. The development of home security has been a very important part of this transformation work. Home security has been developed from being a mobilising vigilance force to forces capable of reacting quickly and solving varied tasks in a very effective way. The central key to this is the quality reform of Heimevernet. The development of Home Protection has taken place within the framework of several long-term plans presented by different governments and with broad support from the Stortinget. The first basis for the transformation of the Home Protection System was given with St.prp. No 45 for 2000–2001, which was the long-term plan for the period 2002–2005, submitted by the government of Stoltenberg I. In the Stortingen's attitude to this, it was established that the Home Office took over the territorial responsibility. During the examination, the Committee provided that the mission, crew composition and equipment of the Home Guard had to be assessed during the planning period. These leaders were followed up by the government of Bondevik II in St.prp. No 55 for 2001–2002, which was a supplementary implementation proposal with a complementary framework for the conversion of defence in the period 2002–2005. Home security had a central place in this proposition. In the examination of the proposition, it was expected from a Joint Defence Committee that the government would return to Stortinget with a new and improved quality of Homeland Protection. This was followed up by the Ministry of Defence, and the Home Office was central to the foundation work of a new long-term plan. When the Bondevik II Government presented its proposal for a long-term plan for the period 2005–08 in St.prp. No 42 for 2003–04, the plan also included a proposal to implement a quality reform in the Heimevernet based on the Chief of Defence investigations and recommendations. The quality reform meant the establishment of a new structure and the improvement of the conditions for Home Protection against a changing threat picture. Based on the leadership of the Stortinget, it was proposed that Home Security should be modernised and given an expanded role to enhance sovereignty, crisis management and social security. Furthermore, the Home Office was to carry out tasks related to strengthening other military presence in vulnerable areas. Finally, the Home Office would be able to provide assistance to civil authorities upon request. In this context, assistance was particularly important to prevent and combat terrorist attacks that the police have primary responsibility to deal with. The proposal for a long-term plan for 2005-2008 underlined that such assistance could be relevant in situations where extensive object protection and/or protection requirements could extend over a longer period of time. Counter-terrorism was not at all mentioned in this context. A central starting point for the quality reform was that it was no longer considered appropriate to continue to commit all resources to fixed, specific tasks across the country at the same time. Instead, home security had to be better able to concentrate forces where the need had to arise. With the quality reform, Heimevaterten went from essentially protecting the mobilization of the total defence to being itself the bearer element of the territorial defence. The reform meant that the Home Guard would develop response forces of up to 5,000 soldiers on high alert. These should consist of volunteers on contract in each Home Guard district, be provided from 6 to 20 days of annual training, and in particular provide for the need to be able to quickly gather forces. The individual peaks in the input strengths, for example HV-016, were not detailed in the long-term proposition. In the setting for this it was only the Progress Party that referred to HV-016. At the same time, the party was also skeptical of the quality reform scheme itself. The quality reform thus meant targeted training and personnel with the right skills. In addition, it was to come to an end that the Home Guard inherited only old material from the defenses. From now on, the Home Office was also to be substantially upgraded through a number of investment projects. When the Stortinget examined the quality reform in 2004, the majority – consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party – considered that it submitted the proposal relating to the modernisation of the Home Protection System «long-haul» meeting the Stortingen's earlier request to make Home Protection a modernised tool for addressing the threats posed by the security policy situation. The current government has been following the quality reform since 2005. In the early years, in particular, the establishment of the new strength structure, the training of the effort forces and the new material priorities were given priority. During the examination of the 2009-2012 Long-term Plan, Stortinget unanimously joined in ‘the continuation of the successful quality reform’. Today's protection structure and tasks are thus decided on with broad support from the Stortinget. The operational status of current home protection is a product of these decisions and of total resource priorities from year to year. Much has been achieved, but it should not be put under the chair that much remains. At the same time, as far as remaining challenges are concerned, it is important for me to remember that these are largely expressive of misleading priorities in each financial year. Priorities must be seen in the perspective of the entire current long-term. Both priorities and long-term objectives are clearly identified by the proposals submitted to the Stortinget. Let me say a little bit more about annual budget development from 2009 to 2011, and let me first say something about the level of training in Home Affairs. In 2009, 90 pst. by the intervention force well trained. There was no room to train the reinforcement and follow-up force that year. In 2010, that is, this year, is also 90 pst. by the input power train. At the same time, training is stepped up in the area structure. Over 20 pst. the reinforcement and follow-up forces are trained according to the priorities of the budget proposal. As Minister of Defence, it is my job to facilitate the training of our soldiers, and I am concerned that so few have completed training in recent years. One of the main objectives of the government is to reverse developments. Already next year we see a more positive picture. The government prioritizes more training. Therefore, the 2011 draft budget provides for the training of reinforcement and follow-up forces to increase from 20 pst. in 2010 to 38 pst. in 2011. At the same time, the ambition is to reach 50 pst as soon as possible. training of the reinforcement and follow-up forces. Furthermore, it is added up to approx. 90 pst. by the effort forces in the Home Security shall be exercised, i.e. the corresponding level in the current year. The government is proposing a grant to Home Corps of 1,049 million. kr in 2011. The proposal actually strengthens the Home Guard budget by 8 million. kr and a solid escalation of the exercise activity. The proposed budget for the next year is therefore about 28 million. kr below the foreseen level of Home Protection in the last year of the current long-term period, i.e. 2012. The government will place great emphasis on getting to such a continuing escalation. So a little bit about Homeland today. The main features of the Home Security structure and organisation as established in the context of the treatment of the Long-term Plan by the Storting for the period 2005-2008 were also continued in the Long-term Plan for 2009–2012. The regional and territorial organisation is at the core, together with the input forces, the reinforcement forces and the follow-up forces — including the Luftheimewert and the Sjöheimewert. The differentiated device of the strength structure has been maintained with a total strength of 45 000. The total strength shall be up to 5000 in the effort force, approximately. 25 000 in the reinforcement strength and approx. 15 000 in the follow-up force. Effort strengths remain the highest priority of Home Affairs. Intervention forces are distributed across the Home Office districts and can be deployed at short notice in all parts of the country, if necessary. The establishment of the response forces was a priority in the first phase of the quality reform, as mentioned and as planned. A significant proportion of the personnel are voluntary contracted personnel. Manning has increased over recent years and is currently at something over 70 pst. of the 5,000. The reinforcement and follow-up strengths are 90 pst. the crew of the 40,000. Increased training of these forces is now a very high priority. The protection of homes has continued to decentralise districts, with a presence in all parts of the country and has maintained good relations with local and regional institutions from other social sectors. The Home Security Districts continue to perform the functions of regional management apparatus at the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters. The Centre of School and Competence of Home Protection at Dombås has continued with a course production adapted to the modernized Home Protection system. The continuous six-month crew training previously conducted by the Home Protection Agency, on its own initiative, at Værnes, was completed in the summer of 2009. The overall training of the defence team shall be able to train and transfer crews annually in a number that will satisfy the need to maintain the structure of the Home Security. This strengthens the protective regime by the use of protective soldiers even after the end of the first duty. Own command training for Heimevernet has been continued at Porsangmoen. This training is specifically geared to the need related to the response force in the Home Affairs Agency. The continued transition of the defence sector requires continued focus on redisposal of funds to higher priority activities. Together with the increase in appropriations, the transition will help to maintain the necessary level of operation and investment and to re-establish the necessary balance between structure, activity and resources. Thus, the efficiency of internal processes is an essential instrument to ensure that the operational activities of the defence are carried out in the best possible way. The Chief of Defence has a great responsibility in this regard. Governments and magnifications set the framework for the functioning of the defence. Clear frameworks are essential in order to ensure good operational professional responsibility. The decision of the majority and the subsequent decisions of the government must give the head of defence predictability and the necessary room for action. There should be a reasonable division of labour. As part of the process of achieving the main objectives of the long-term plan, and in accordance with directives of the Ministry of Defence, the Chief of Defence is constantly assessing a number of measures. Where it clearly falls within his own remit, he makes the necessary decisions, including those relating to Home Affairs. One action is to reorganise some of the response forces in the Heimevertet. The treatment of the current long-term plan by the Storing resulted in a reduction of 13 districts to 11. In the wake of this, it has been decided that the rods of the response forces Varg in Agder and Dolphin in Finnmark will be dropped. These are adjustments made by the head of defence and the Inspector-General of the Home Office in order to ensure better operational capability and more efficient operation of the Home Office. There has been some attention about the changes, which involve only a small number of jobs. Also, such minor changes release resources for more training in Home Affairs. Only the planning and management of the forces are to be carried out from elsewhere. Recruitment, training and local anchoring are mainly as they are today, as a result of this change. In this context, it is also important to remember that the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters, from one location, actually governs all operational activities and planning for the whole country. Overall, neither the South nor the Finnmark will be weakened. On the recommendation of the head of defence, I have decided that the Inspector General of the Home Office and its related staff functions should be moved to the Terningmoen at Elverum. This is in line with the government’s strategy to strengthen local and regional defence competences by locating key staffs and functions at operational bases abroad. The aim is to maximise the use of existing military buildings in the area, but at the same time investment costs are likely to be incurred, in that case outside the budget chapter of the Home Guard. In the case of operating costs, the head of defence has assumed that the transfer should not lead to an increase in operating pressure in the Home Security. Let me underline the importance of the internal willingness and commitment of the defence sector to facilitate the best possible use of the resources made available to the defence sector. It is a prerequisite for achieving the best possible effect in the performance of the defence tasks, either alone or in cooperation with civil society. I am pleased to note that the head of defence is following up on this responsibility. In the case of the Heimevertet, he has very good support from the Inspector General of the Heimevertet in this work. The training of the response, reinforcement and follow-up forces takes place under the direction of the districts with locally stored material and with a focus on the assignments of the districts at all times. Crisis management is a priority, and cooperation with civil authorities such as police, state and local authorities is important in this context. The Home Guard also received the first ship in the Reine class in September this year. The ship has several functions, and I especially look forward to seeing the vessels in use as decentralised training facilities for the Home Guard staffs and command platforms for operations in the coastal zone. This is just one of several examples of important and new modern material that Homeland Protection has received and will receive in the years to come. In order to fulfil its tasks, the Home Protection Agency shall be allocated material either through its own dedicated investment project for the Home Protection Agency or as part of joint projects with other defence sectors. For the years 2009 and 2010, an estimated 260 million material will be acquired. kr to Home Security, and the material plan for the period 2011-2015 provides material for approximately 630 million. kr. However, as the government has informed in the budget proposals for 2009, 2010 and 2011, the share of investment in the defence budget is slightly lower than provided in the long-term plan for operation. This is also the background for the government proposing to strengthen the investment budget in the defence budget proposal for next year. This reduced provision for early-period investments has also resulted in a somewhat reduced progress in the acquisition of materials for the protection of the home. This applies, inter alia, to: delayed provision of multi-roll radios, evacuation vehicles, light multi-use radios and multi-use vessels. The Home Office still has some shortcomings in its organisation. First of all, this applies to manning and training. The overall assessment of the operational capability of the Home Protection Agency by the Defence Manager is less positive this year compared to last year. The main reason for this was the lack of training in the area structure in 2009. I have a strong understanding that lack of training is a little motivating for the many affected. However, the Chief of Defence's operational assessments are that essential parts of the forces and parts of the forces are well trained and equipped to perform their main tasks. The forces have a high level of preparedness. At the same time, there are some deficiencies related to endurance. I'm joining this. The Tried Departments of Home Protection are considered fully operational in order to resolve missions in support of civil society. The operational capability in this area is considered to be very good. It is important to stress that, on a more or less weekly basis, Home Protection helps to solve this problem, for example. in search and rescue operations, watchkeeping and accident protection and assistance. The recent assistance provided by the Home Office in connection with the racial accident in Lyngen illustrates this fully. The news was also clearly demonstrated when the Heimevatert mobilized in 2009 at record speed after a larger race in Namsos. More than 30 people from the local Home Office did what they were supposed to do in such a situation, namely to operate on-site watchkeeping in cooperation with the police. They were quickly in place, and they used their local skills to solve the problem, and they were met with great goodwill among the population. In 2009, the Home Guard implemented no less than 11 search operations, contributed significantly to the oil discharge clean-up from Full City in the South and supported three civil events. In addition, 14 sharp strength protection missions were carried out, mainly related to the watchkeeping of ship calls. In total, 138 such assignments have been carried out by the Home Protection Agency between 2005 and 2009. At the same time, it is a prerequisite, which has also been established by the Storting, that civil society security assistance should not be dimensional to the structure and development of defence. For the tasks of sovereignty, contributions to episode and crisis management and contributions to collective defence, the Chief of Defence concludes that the operational capability of the Home Security is satisfactory. Home Security has adapted its organization to be able to quickly install 20 pst today. of the structure of operations at home and then follow up and replace with other parts of the organisation. The input strengths have been trained since 2005 to meet the required requirements. Material is mainly in place, and most of the response forces have completed and have passed a tactical evaluation of operational capability. What a formidable resource as well as interest rates was demonstrated extensively during the Gjallarhorn exercise in East Agder just over a month ago. Over 1,600 men and women from the Home Office participated. The exercise involved the effort forces and parts of the region’s territorial structure, including vessels. The exercise showed that Home Security, in cooperation with civil authorities, constitutes a significant resource for protecting important infrastructure in the coastal zone. The evaluations have been very good, and they show that the Home Office is both well-designed to solve the new problems, and that the forces are doing the tasks in an excellent way. At the same time, the exercise showed that the forces were effectively led by the new district management in Rogaland relatively shortly after the conversion of the district structure in the south-west. Practice Gjallarhorn shows that it has succeeded in changing the device to adapt to new challenges in a new reality, and shows the results of practice with HV departments. The Government commits, through the 2011 draft budget, to strengthen both the budget for material investments and the Heimvertner budget for operations. In order to achieve the objectives set for Home Affairs in the period 2009–2012, there is a particular need to adapt and establish the new structure. As I have already said, we are committed to increasing the training of reinforcement and follow-up forces. The manning of the forces of effort needs to be further increased, and we need to continue the feeding of materials to the Home Security. The Chief of Defence's decision to remove the HV-016 structural element from the Home Guard intervention forces is firm. I would like to remind you that any government agency has a duty to use its resources in the most rational way possible. Of course, this also applies to the Defence. The Defence Manager shall, according to his instructions, ensure that ‘verify the effective use of the funds allocated’. The Defence Manager shall continuously assess his/her capabilities, structure and overall operational capability in order to maximise the impact of his/her resources at all times. I therefore believe that it is not only natural, but also necessary for him to take action to ensure rational use of resources. Of course – as I have already said – this should happen within the limits given to him. I have full confidence that the head of defence will do this job within his instructions, the leadership of the department and according to his delegated responsibilities. I am sure that the adjustments that are now being made to the Home Office provide a stronger impact on the protection of homes in relation to the resource frameworks that are being made available. I would like to stress that the Chief of Defense, well supported by the Inspector-General of Homeland Protection, is making a significant effort to ensure that the results of Homeland Protection are as good as possible. Four of the 11 districts of the Home Corps have had a 016 in their response forces. The five troops that made up HV-016 have been about 180 personnel and have been part of the response forces. In addition to the tasks of all effort forces, HV-016 has also had tasks related to military lifeguard and escort capabilities. These are tasks that were established during the Cold War to ensure key personnel in the event of mobilisation. The threat picture contained an assessment that the special forces of foreign countries would pose a threat to Norwegian military leaders prior to a military attack on Norway. The Chief of Defense believes that there is no longer a need for the bodyguard and escort mission to the Home Guard. He has therefore decided not to continue the assignment. With this, HV-016 as their own troops will not be passed on. In practice, it is only a matter of taking out the specific military bodyguard and escort capacity in Homeland Security, nothing else. Therefore, there is no mention of redundancies or a reduction in the volume of inputs adopted. It is my strong wish that the highly competent personnel continue to work in the Home Security effort forces. This is also the responsibility of the Chief of Defence and the Director-General for Home Affairs. At the request of the police, home security shall be able to support in more defensive anti-terrorist actions, mainly in the form of security and security. It has been claimed in the debate that taking HV-016 out of the structure will provide a weakened anti-terrorism preparedness. This isn't right. Assistance to the police in connection with anti-terrorism is a standing assignment to the Home Office in general. All the Home Guard forces are responsible for this. It is therefore not a task that has been specific to HV-016. The defence manager's aim to take HV-016 out of the structure is therefore to ensure optimal and most efficient operation in the Home and Defence Protection systems as a whole. The organisational adjustment is not driven by one-sided savings needs, and the Inspector-General for Home Protection is therefore clear that she would not maintain military lifeguard and escort capacity within the Home Security even with increased budgets. In that case, she would give priority to correcting deficiencies, among other things. in the area structure that I have explained. The reinforcement and follow-up forces in the Heimevertet are the very foundations of the defense of the people, and thus of the forces of the Heimevertet. This can be compared with the importance of the mass sport as the basis for ensuring the peak sport level. These levels are interdependent. Therefore, when, in the first phase of the implementation of the quality reform in Heimeveren, we focused so much on the effort forces, the time has now come to prioritize the territorial structure and the parts of the Home Protection that are closest to the communities around the country. I will again stress that the way forward is not easy. We have significant challenges. No one's earned a picture of the situation. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are familiar with these challenges and that we have good plans to meet them. In addition, we have good and realistic objectives to achieve, objectives that are supported by a broad political majority. This constitutes a solid foundation for all those who will continue to work towards the fulfilment of the quality reform of the Home Protection System. In recent years, the defense has been transformed into a modern defense and the Home Protection system into a modern shelter. This has laid a foundation for further development through more gradual adjustments. It is precisely this government that is proposing the long-term plan that will apply from 2013 and that we are preparing. The Inspector-General of the Heimevertet is heavily involved in this, not least in assisting in the military investigation of the chief of defence. The same Inspector-General places considerable emphasis on the need to investigate and plan the further development of Home Protection as an integral part of the forthcoming long-term defence plan. Gradual adjustments and adjustments will continue to be essential in order for Defence and Home Affairs to remain adequate to meet new challenges. Any viable organisation must focus on continuing modernisation and necessary adaptations. Not least these organisations are important to the whole community, just as home security is. Only in this way can Home Protection continue to protect, guard and work for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e221	Now there is a debate in line with the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e224	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. The background to this statement in Stortinget is that the Stortinget has very many unanswered questions about the state and the situation of Homeland Protection. The Minister of Defence's lack of information about this has made it necessary to require an explanation. The deafness and disclaimer over the past few weeks have contributed to the development of a comprehensive media array between the HR personnel and the military management. From the Right, the concern for HV has been there for a long time. It's increased in the last three years. While 80 pst. of the area structure was trained in 2006, became 0 pst. of the territorial structure trained in 2009. This year, 20 p.m. will be trained. When the financial year 2011 expires, 50 pst. of the reinforcement and follow-up forces have not been trained for four years. Thus, they are not, in practice, usable for the tasks envisaged by the Storting. When the head of one of the largest HV districts states that ‘HV is not currently in a position to safely perform neither civil nor military tasks’, it should be a cause for concern deep into the government parties. When he says that one of the main problems with lack of practice and training is that ‘we do not know the command, we do not know the crew, and we lose contact networks, local knowledge and continuity’, it interferes with the very core of HV. According to HV-02, the response time to the reinforcement and follow-up forces is 10-30 days, because they have to be trained almost from the ground. It was assumed in the long-term plan that we would have an effort force of up to 5,000 men. It's now about 3,200 men. We also need a HV before 2013. Through three successive long-term plans for the Defence and Proliferation Communication on Social Security and Civil-Military Cooperation, Stortinget has provided the framework for the tasks and roles of HV in Norway. The size has ordered an HV that has a rapid and persevering capacity to protect key infrastructure, support national crisis management, strengthen military presence in the country as needed and support civil society. The council says that we have received an effort-HV that can react quickly. There is little in today's HV that indicates that we have got an effort-HV. Int. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 the Defence Committee wrote: ‘The change in the risk picture leads to the traditional tasks of the Home Security Agency no longer solely dimensional to the structure of the HV. However, a modernised HV will be very relevant to tasks related to sovereignty enhancement, crisis management and social security assistance.’;» No decision has been amended to the contrary. In the setting of the long-term defence plan for the current period, a unanimous defence committee wrote: ‘The Committee will refer to the significant change that the organisation has undergone in recent years and assumes that the successful quality reform is continued.’ And on the other hand, ‘A HV that knows the neighbourhoods and local hedged items will play an important role in crisis management and social security. HV shall remain mobilising based on short response time, well trained and equipped. In doing so, the Committee would stress the crucial importance of keeping HV departments in a satisfactory level of training and practice.’.» As the Council of State itself says, today's structure and tasks have been adopted with the support of an overall increase. The quality reform of Home Protection started in 2004 and has been a very successful part of the change in Defence. Today’s protection of homes appears to be a modern, relevant and tangible resource for the country’s defence. But training is required to solve the tasks that Stortinget has given, thus completing the reform. In the HV annual report for 2008, the Inspector-General for HV wrote the following: ‘HV will not be able to withstand several years with very limited resources. Then quality reform will stop. What keeps HV trained, up-to-date and motivated are annual exercises and exercises.’ So the government followed up this warning by cutting all the exercises for regular crews in 2009. How to change this picture when HV in the 2011 budget receives a real increase of 1.3 million. Do you really want to delete this item? It's 1 per million of HV's budget. At a meeting with the National Council for the Protection of Home Affairs on 9 November this year, the Director-General said that there is no consistency between structure and budgetary resources, that this situation is unlikely to improve in the coming years, and that HV does not have an explicit and long-term strategy beyond 2012. In the middle of this critical situation for HV, it is decided to move the HV staff from Oslo to the Terningmoen – a move with unknown price tag. The point to the right in this case is not the geographical location of the HV staff. However, when the budgetary document provides for a move, where neither the budget nor subsequent questions answer what it will cost, it is clear that the Right is responding. The closest we get an answer from the department, after repeated questions, is an estimate of 63 million. kr, which the department itself considers to be a non-voting figure. We are also told, in response to our written questions to the ministry, that our question about the cost is too complicated to answer. It's totally unacceptable to have such an arrogant attitude to fundamental questions from the Storting, on absolutely essential issues. I have to say that the Council's warm defense for practice and training in its presentation today appears to be quite hollow, when at the same time you start a moving process you don't know the price tag, and on the other hand try to put down departments in HV to save small, small sums. A particular theme in recent weeks has been the closure of HV-016, HV’s sharpest end. HV-016, former HV-SPES, was established in 1987 following a unanimous vote by the then Defence Committee. Int. S. No 232 for 2001-2002 says a unanimous committee, among others: on the structure and organisation of the Home Security System: ‘If Home Security is to have the ability to cooperate more flexibly with other military and civil actors in an anti-terrorism response, it must involve an even greater emphasis on quality than today on special forces within the overall Home Security.’ This was followed up in the launch of the Communication on social security and civil-military cooperation: ‘In the case of police assistance in the fight against terrorist attacks, HV may be an important resource in given situations. Such assistance is presumed to be primarily relevant in situations where extensive object protection is being implemented or where the need for protection could extend over a longer period of time.’;» The Committee stressed the importance of close and flexible cooperation between police and defence in the face of terrorism. HV-016 was as late as 4 January this year intended for clear tasks in a letter from the Defence Operational Headquarters, so this goes far beyond escort and lifeguard services. I quote: ‘Lifeguard and escort service..., building clearance, including attack... support to police... fighting minor forces... resources for monitoring, information gathering and reconnaissance... to perform other tasks performed by the Chief HV district’.» It seems to me that this is far more than escort and lifeguard service, and it seems quite strange that these tasks have been gone since 4 January this year. When it comes to the situation in Homeland, in our opinion, it's serious. When you have a tight economic situation, which means that the crews don't get trained and don't get practice, which means that the Storting doesn't get what HV we ordered and assuming we have, it seems strange that you start large, expensive moving processes at the same time. Over the past few weeks, the Minister of Defence has referred only to the Chief of Defense and his powers. The Council of State seems to have forgotten that the Stortinge is constitutionally only with the Council of State and does not know the head of defence. The Chief of Defence has no constitutional responsibility towards the Storting for the decisions he or she makes. The Chief of Defence has extensive powers, including as regards the disposal of military capabilities, but within the limits set by the Storting. If the assumptions made by the Storting are not met, it is the Council of State which is politically responsible and which must inform the Storting of any changes in the assumptions. And I remember that it's the Big One that interprets Storting's decision. We've assumed that HV has to perform important tasks, but we see a HV that is increasingly poorly trained. When even the best HV units are added down, we have to ask if it's the way we have what HV we have in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e301	First, I want to say that I think it is good that today we have the opportunity to discuss the Home Security, and I want to thank the Council of State for her presentation. With regard to the main lines for the development of modern Home Protection, I would like to show that there has been a cross-political consensus on the Bigholding of HV in the last ten years. Today’s debate will therefore largely focus on the challenges facing HV in terms of allocated resources and lack of practice. I think we all agree that the goal is full operational home protection. The disagreement goes, as I see it, on when and at what rate HV should be fully operational. Let me first point out that HV is a married child of the resistance movement during World War II, and was adopted in 1946. Since its inception and until now, HV has undergone major changes. The modernized HV, as we now know, is a central and important part of Norwegian defence. As the Minister of Defence has explained, the overall issues of HV organisation and development have been firmly anchored and addressed here on the Stortinget. In 2004, Stortinget adopted the HV scheme and the quality reform. Quality reform has continued in the current long-term plan. This is what the Workers' Party has been one of the proponents for. So what were the challenges HV had before the quality reform? Former Inspector General of Heimevernet, General Brovold, has provided a good description of this, and the need for reform, during his speeches in Oslo Military Society in both 2005 and 2006. Among other things, Brovold described in 2005 that the then Homeland Protection Agency had: that it was based on the cold war and trained on pre-determined static tasks that only 50 pst were trained. by the crews and ordered on an annual basis that critical material was missing The objective of the future HV provided by the Stortinget through the quality reform was, therefore, a protection of homes which should be: adapted to an unforeseeable and unforeseeable threat image that is flexible – where needed, with the right quantity and quality to pass on a decentralised division of districts with presence in all parts of the country with annual training of the entire operational force that has greater financial resources and is significantly better equipped, including Section 13 tasks, i.e. assistance to civil society; Furthermore, the quality reform was based on a recognition that the defence and HV could not expect them to receive increased resource allocation, and therefore the reform had to be financed by conversion and reductions in the HV structure. This has been done by reducing the number of HV districts from 18 to 11 today and reducing the number of soldiers from 83,000 to 45000. The released funds were to be used to invest in competence, modern material and annual quality training for the whole structure. So what is the state of the Defense and the HV? As the Minister of Defence has explained, the government is following up the quality reform through the Long-term Defence Plan 2009-2012. With this long-term plan, it was recognised that we had to stop adopting a larger defence structure than what you are actually willing to pay for. Some of the problem has just been that the defence has been underfunded in earlier periods. This took the consequences of and put in place a plan to balance the defence through internal efficiency improvement and the introduction of 800 million fresh 2008 crowns over the long term. What does this mean for Homeland? We have continued HV according to the quality reform with a total strength of 45 000 soldiers. The total strength consists of up to 5 000 in the effort force, about 5 000. 25 000 in the reinforcement strength and approx. 15 000 in the follow-up force. At the same time, we recognise that the exercise level in HV is too low. The action force can be said to have had a satisfactory level of exercise all the time. With regard to the area structure, there was no exercise in 2009, with more people attending. This year, 20 pst., and the budget adds to 38 pst. shall be practised next year. The goal in the long-term plan is that 50 pst. shall be practised in 2012. Therefore, as demonstrated by the quality reform, in the post-2012 period we must try to obtain annual quality training for more of the area structure. This is an important challenge to address if we are to have full operational home protection with a satisfactory exercise and training pattern for both the effort, reinforcement and follow-up forces. I have registered that there has been a question of reason by moving the Inspector General of the Home Protection and HV staff from Oslo to Elverum. Some feedback has also been received that there is a fear of what the cost of such a move will mean for an already tight HV budget. This, I think, is concerns we have to take seriously. I am therefore also pleased that the Minister of Defence has taken this up in his statement and said that it should not fail to operate. The issue that has been much about in the media lately is the closure of the 016 department. I'll be careful to go in and assess the need for these departments. I'm recording that the Chief of Defense believes that HV-016 has played its own role. But I would also like to say that at the same time I get feedback from frustrated and angry 016 staff who react strongly to the reason why they should be dropped. It is difficult for me to decide on everything that has been said in the media in this matter, but from my point of view, they should really now sit down and talk about the various claims that are troubling around. Because what we see in the media is not a nice sight. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that it is the Storting that lays the overall framework for the kind of defence and capacity we need, through the treatment of the long-term plan and the annual budgets. Within these frameworks it is up to the government and the head of defence to organise the activities. But let me give the head of defense a little hint: there are a lot of big business representatives who are provoked to be told what the Storting should think about. I would like to remind you that we are, in fact, the elected assembly in this country. That's up to us what we want to mean. Having said that, we who are sitting on the Stortinget must also ask ourselves to what extent we are going to govern the defense. An excessive level of detail management by Stortinget seems to me to be neither operationally reasonable, economically sound, nor advisable in the military field. The working party will continue to work towards achieving the objectives and frameworks of Home Affairs, as set out in the quality reform and the long-term plan. This does not mean that we will not have challenges in the future, but the Workers' Party aims to deliver defence capabilities and keep what we have promised. The most important thing now is to have a balanced defence in 2012, and that includes Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e363	I thank the Council of State for the briefing and allow me to start with a comment. I record that the head of defense is not present, even though other high-ranking officers are here. If it is related to the case that is being dealt with today, I will not be told. But it might have been an advantage that he had been here and got some of the points of view that have already come, and that have been underlined by the Parliamentary Chair, for it has been rightly pointed out. Then it would have been tempting to say that the statement made by the Council of State might have been used also if other parts of the Defence that are struggling in the same way. Because it's a fact that it's not just the Home Protection that's struggling with a lack of resources to do its job, it's not just the Home Protection that's struggling with the ability to perform exercises and exercises, it's not just the Home Protection that's struggling to do what the Storting actually expected. We have an anomaly – I believe – largely within all arms, and we are unable to exploit the resources we have. I feel that the situation of the Defense goes from difficult to worse. I record that the state council and others have described the defense as harsh, but good. It's going to be interesting to see what the definition of the term "good" is, because this I'm sure the Storting will come back to. We sometimes boast that we make big investments on the defence side. And we do that. But the challenges with the same investments are the possibility of making use of them. It's no use for the Home Security to have the best equipment if they're not going to practice with it. If it's in a locker, it's a bad investment. It is not particularly smart at my discretion to buy many frigates if they are to lie at the berth in Bergen. Of course it's great, but it doesn't give us much more impact than very local. The purpose must be that we get to use them out and get them used to us. So, what about Homeland Protection as such? As has been said from the Right, home security is one of the most important foundations of national defence in Norway. In addition, there's something we don't rock in the Storting without being in trouble, the Lenkers' seat is one of those things you have to take care of, the Home Guard is one of those things you have to take care of, because they have a lashing that many of us can be envious of: they have the people who are all proud of. That's why you have to be very careful when you do something about it. If you look at the old motto of Homeland Protection, "Everywhere, always," it says something about legitimacy. It says something about the anchoring in the system, and how important it was. The reasons included: local knowledge that was a success factor, a local commitment that should be a success factor, and the locality is a success factor. When we talk about a marginal exercise opportunity, we lose what were the elements that were supposed to give this strength. At least I think it's nice, and I think it's creepy. And I think we're losing part of our national identity by throwing away a lot of what Homeland Protection stands for. And then, of course, we can discuss the reasons why it's like this, so you don't want to take any more of that. I experienced that the Council of State now explained that you are on the way up. But it is nice that when Stortinget has placed an order on the table, it should have been delivered in relation to that order. Of course, you can explain the facts as much as you want, but I feel that what's happening today is a crazy solution, and that's a wild red-green solution. It has also been said from others that the Home Security will deliver, and they will deliver in relation to the tasks to be solved. There's no doubt about it. I am pleased that the role of Homeland Protection, which has clear military alms in it, is now being clarified, it has a police assistance function on request, and it has a clear mandate, tasks that it will contribute to civil crises. This is where the defense and the Home Office are unique. There are not many who are better than Homeland Protection to set up when we need it, because they have a volume, and they have local knowledge. But in relation to the pointed part, I'm worried, because when you go looking for people, you don't need weapons, you don't have to be trained for sharp situations. It also has another dimension that we don't take care of to a large extent. So over to the top command that's not here today, that's the defense chief's claim of 016. It has been said that 016 is out of control, it has been said that they do not fit in today's threat picture, it has been said that they define their own tasks, they have wrong weapons and equipment, and it will release resources. If this is the case, if it is the case that 016 have operated outside their mandate, has disciplinary action been taken against these persons? I assume that the defense will operate within a given framework. If you haven't gone far beyond that, then the head of defense has a responsibility again. Another thing that strikes me, is that if today's defense chief is right, what have the former defense chiefs translated that must be so obvious now? Is it like this that we suddenly got a new head of defense who saw everything in a new light and thought, 'Yes, here's the solution, we've used the resources wrong, we have to do something!'? Or is the fact that due to resource access you are forced to do things other than what you really want to do? Perhaps the most worrying thing about this is the recruitment relationship, I believe, in the context and that the Stortinget has not been informed in a good and sound way. I fully share the views of the Minister of Defence on the ability of the head of defence to dispose of the resources he has, within the rules he has. It was supposed to be missing, too. I don't think the Storting is the best to go on the detail level. That's what we've got professionals for. But Stortinget is quite clear as ordered, and as ordered you have some demands and expectations for the supplier. Last night there was a big debate about the public vis-à-vis the ability of the private to deliver. Here we have to the degrees a monopoly to which Stortinget makes an order, and then you expect deliveries back. When this does not happen, I believe that the least you have to do is to make sure that the order is properly and properly informed. I believe that this matter has been treated disrespectfully to Stortinget. And where is the Minister of Defence in this? I fully understand that it is the head of defence who is to have operational responsibility, but now it is the case that the Stortinget – once again – has a role, and the role of the Stortinget towards the government in this matter goes through the Minister of Defence. In this way, I think the Minister of Defence has been extremely absent. What strikes me as strange is the following: if the Minister of Defense disagrees with the head of defence, why hasn't she made it clear – took political responsibility and showed that this is wrong, we shouldn't have it like that and put things back in place again? Or we can turn it around and say that if the Minister of Defense agrees with the Chief of Defense, why has it not been clearer to support him on what he does? I feel that the Minister of Defence here has in a way kept himself floating, if you can use such a concept, in relation to where you're going, and lying on the weather – I'll say so. I don't think that's acceptable. It is strange for me that some of the changes to be introduced from next year – for example. The mandate of the Garden and changes to the Heimevernet – is something that the Evening Post briefs the Stortinget on. It's possible that the government thinks there's a good way to do it. Some of us are a little bit critical of such a procedure. I want to say that one of the most important things about what's happening is that in the worst case, we're going to lose some of the knowledge and expertise that HV as such has. In the worst case, we're going to lose part of the point competence that 016 has. At least I haven't experienced that there has been a standing ovation about the amendment that is now being promoted. I might experience the opposite. It is made clear by the fact that some now consider going to court with the Defence. I'm not sure they have a good case, but it shows something about frustration, it shows something about the irritation about the lack of respect you feel is being treated with. I can't believe that the defense, which is concerned with reputation and reputational security for its own part, ended up in this miscarriage. We are regularly discussing reports from the Riksrevision. We have discussions about the acquisition of equipment. We have discussions about how to solve assignments. Unfortunately, the approach in many of those cases is very negative. I think that's sad, because we're all dependent on a well-functioning defense that has the right capabilities in place when we need them. Then we need a positive focus. So maybe someone would say yes, this debate doesn't contribute to anything positive. It contributes to the positive focus that we focus on the relationship between the Storting as a pre-missive and the Defense as the operational provider of it, and not least the intermediary here, the Minister of Defence, who is responsible for ensuring that this is done in a good and proper way. In this case, it is my clear belief that the Minister of Defence has not done his job here. The speech was quite like a review of things and seaweed that happened in the defense, but I missed a clarification of the relationship with the Stortinge in the defence minister's presentation. It's possible that it was conscious, it's even possible that it was unconscious, I'm going to be careful to have an opinion about it, but I completely missed it. It would have been tempting at the end – I think I'm taking the chance: when you look at the old motto of Homeland Protection, "Everywhere, always", it was a great one. Now we have one that is much more technical: «A time-consuming home security for national security». If this government is to continue, I am afraid that the motto of the future will be ‘HV here and there, sometimes’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e405	In view of the boundless black measurement of the situation in Defense from the last speaker, I just want to remind you of a few things. Firstly, Norway is still the country of NATO — according to the United States — which spends the most money on defence in relation to gross domestic product. There's a reason to discuss it, to say it like that, but we are. Secondly, we are increasing our defence rights and have done so in Norway over the last few years, while saying that all other European countries are cutting their defenses. Thirdly, we now have a long-term defence plan that is being followed up, and where we have a course for implementation – a completely different situation than under the previous government. I assume that speakers from other parties with even greater commitment than me will be able to make the same arguments later in the debate. Then I want to thank the Council of State for a good deal. Home security has a special story. It was created after the Second World War with a strong desire to carry forward the popular defence exposure that Milorg and the resistance to the occupation was. It's also interesting, in my view, to see that today, in 2010, we are here with a strong commitment to Home Security and a debate on the basis that Home Security is an important part of a modern defence. Because it was not given in the debate after the cold war that it was supposed to be the perception of Homeland Protection. On the contrary, there were many voices that then suggested that the Home Guard was an antique. It is an impressive modernization process for the Home Office over the last decade. We now have a significant resource in the Norwegian defense, a resource that also plays well with the rest of society. I would also say that the Minister for Defence has given clear and realistic plans for how we should continue to improve the protection of the Homeland, and specifically point to a very important point, namely the training of the crew and the needs we have there. I have also noticed, as several speakers have pointed out, that the world's reputation is now much better and better than it was if we go back a decade. Then I would like to add when it comes to the closure of HV-016: In my opinion, it is clearly in line with the mandate of the defence manager to make the necessary changes within the structure – there must be a certain room for manoeuvre for it within the defence. So I also notice that the Council of State states that it is a professionally based conversion that has been made here, and that the Inspector General of Homeland Protection is aware that she would not continue with military bodyguard and escort capacity within HV even with increased budget. I think it's also important to get a premise in the debate, if it's professionally correct, if it's correct, to keep up with it. There is also another point that I consider important here: Anti-terrorism is a task for the police, but HV will provide assistance to the police in connection with anti-terrorism. But, as the government also pointed out, all the Home Guard forces were assigned to that task. So it's not a problem that disappears or becomes weighty because of this conversion, because it's not special for HV-016, but it's added to the different effort forces within the Home Security. It is also important to continue as a premise for the debate. So then the question is whether it's a proper change to get modernized home protection, freeing resources and making sure that Home Security is assigned to the tasks they should have in the future. Then I'll just finally take notice of the statement. I would also like to add that I think the Council of State makes it clear that it has a clear overview of the challenges facing the future of Homeland Protection, and gives clear plans to improve the training activity of the time to come, and prioritises Homeland Protection in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e439	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation. I would also like to thank my co-representatives for their contributions to the Home Office. There is no doubt that the defence is facing major challenges. Some of the reasons why we're sitting in this room, because we've had great ambitions on behalf of the Defense Department. Among other things, for the last ten years, the defense has contributed heavily in Afghanistan, which has required a great deal of resources from all parts of the defence, to be able to stand at the best possible heights in the conflict situation they face in every single day. It has required a lot of us, it has demanded a lot of the defense, and it has required a lot of the defence departments, although not everyone has been directly affected. What delights me in this debate is that there is so much commitment to Home Affairs, that all parties see the importance of having a strong protection of homes, a strong protection of homes throughout the country, a strong protection of homes that is armed to address today's challenges. For Homeland, people bind together and defend themselves. I think it is absolutely vital for the support of the defence that there is a defence present in the various parts of the country, a defence based on a duty of protection. Today, home security is Norway’s national defence and mobilizes many people, up to 45,000 people. What is most positive with today's report from the Council of State is that she is so focused that the time has come to train the follow-up and reinforcement forces within the Home Office. Because that's what's needed, we're going to have to get the sufficient width and motivation among the Homeland soldiers. That's what HV people know, that's around Norway, that stands up in civil crises, in natural disasters, in floods and races, and that gets a lot of the best in people, in combination with an effort for the public and a hard work for the communities. There have been several people here — with a critical eye — who want to move the Home Guard Staff and the Inspector-General of the Home Guard, to the Terningmoen. I believe it is a follow-up to Stortinget's intention to move the inspectors to the operational environments of Defence. We've done it in the case of army, we've done it at sea, we've done it in the air, and now is the time for Homeland Protection. It has been the Storting's wish that the inspectors should sit closer where the defence's heavy operating environments are, and the Terningmoen is in the middle of one of the most heavy operating environments in the defence. It is up to all of us who are concerned about the future of Homeland Protection and that Homeland Protection should have heavy capacity in the future, to be able to free up more resources for training the follow-up and reinforcement forces. It's up to the head of defense, it's up to the Council of States, and it's not least up to us when we're going to give priority to what we're going to use the defense for. I think it's time to take the Defense home. As the Defence Council said before the weekend, NATO is going home. The Norwegian defence must also focus on returning home. For ten years now, we have been giving priority to having a heavy contribution to Afghanistan, which has been a major priority. Now we need to focus more on the domestic defence, build up the capacities to have presence throughout Norway. Then the Home Protection is in a key position in such a work. Finally, I think that's exactly what's now happening in the case of HV-016. We fully support the Chief of Defense, and we fully support the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e458	Home security is an important part of the Norwegian defence system. Home security is triggering a great public commitment. The Home Guard has a strong anchor in Stortinget. The Council of State's presentation is, in fact, a thorough documentation of how heavily involved Stortinget has been in the debate on the development of Home Affairs. That's exactly what's the point when we brought this case in for an open size. We have wanted to point out that the development of Home Protection – not just the plans of Home Protection, but the status, development and future of Home Protection – belongs to the Stortinge agenda. This has been necessary because, with increasing concern, we have seen that the quality reform of the Home Protection System does not lead to the desired quality in having an effort, reinforcement and follow-up strength with the necessary training frequency. The size has clearly indicated that one is concerned about a HV in a critical situation. That is why, with increasing wonder, we have recorded statements in the recent public debate that point to the fact that the Home Security Organisation is the head of defence. It's not just the defense chief's statements that in this context have led us to raise our brows. It has become clear that the decision that is the starting point of the HV-016, lacks a foundation in the Defence's own organisation, among the employees' organisations, in the Department's political management and here in the Stortinget. It is worrying because the Home Protection Act states: ‘The organisation of the Home Office and its incorporation into the Defence shall be determined by the King with the consent of the Storting.’ It is unusual for the Storting to decide in the form of the law that it should have something to do with the organisation of a public appliance under the government, but it is stated in the Home Office Act. It is one of the reasons for the detailed list of drug treatment that the Council of State could refer to in its presentation. Therefore, it is more than striking when, on the part of the defence and political leadership, the impression is that this is question The Greatness shouldn't care. Neither should the political leadership in the Defence should care about that, said the State Secretary on TV the other day. So it's not just the head of defence who has said this, but it's also the political leadership who has said it. Then I need to say something about the relationship between big business and government and the relationship between politics and administration. So it's the Stortinget, within the Constitution and within the laws The Storting itself has given, which defines what is relevant to the Stortinget's agenda. It has been marked by Stortinget putting this matter on his agenda today. It is not up to a Secretary of State or a Chief of Defense to decide what is policy, it is the Great Government that decides within the framework of the Constitution and the Law itself. That is why we believe by the Christian People's Party that there is a need for a broad review and treatment of the situation, status and development of Home Security. Knowing that we have had a long-term message, we want from the Christian People's Party a big message about the situation of Homeland Protection that gives us the opportunity to deal with this on a broad basis. I must say that in the light of the sharp criticism that has come to this Chamber today of the Council of State's handling of this matter, her fulfilment of the information obligation of the Stortinget, it is not right that the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge do not give us the opportunity to refer this matter to the committee, but this is not a reason under Section 13. That's why the Greatness is all the more reason to adopt a proposal that the Christian People's Party will be promoting during the next week's budget debate to get its own big message about the Home Protection for treatment here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e476	It is true that the representative of the Højbräten points out that § 13 of the Rules of Procedure does not allow a case to be referred to the Committee. And it's right that the representative refers to, that there will be an opportunity to discuss this and related issues, for example. in the context of the budget debate, not very long in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e480	When the Stortinget gets a statement from a Council of State, it is one of two: it is either something the Council of State wants to boast of, or it is a parliament that is concerned. In this case, we're worried. The threat picture is changing. That's how we can't take on the previous threat we received to make a defense against it. We actually have to see that new threats manifest around us, and the previous challenge you had is completely different from the challenges of the future. The exposure around the Home Office in this hall in and in the Left bottoms in exactly this. We see that our entire country is facing threats, and we see how important local knowledge and competence are to meet those challenges. The biggest problem with Home Protection from the left's point of view now is that we have far too little practice, too little practice and that we do not have the Home Protection that we want. The left divides the situation description of the committee leader, and we are not sure when it is necessary to go to the Council of State, where one is a little evading in the orientation, and it is felt that the main source of information for the Storting is the Evening Post. Of course, we would like to read the Evening Post, but we believe that the main source of information for such important things might not be newspapers. I'm a citizen of Oslo. In other words, many of the terrorist threats, many of the additional challenges we see in the new threat picture, characterize these citizens who have voted in favour of the Storting. That means that people in their everyday lives actually think about the challenges, that there are a lot of people who, when they're standing on a crowded T-car, sometimes think, what can happen? Then it's important to know that you have a society that takes those challenges seriously. That's why this decision has created so great furores, especially among us who live in Oslo. But the main concern of the Left about what's going on isn't about boxes, moving, stretching and parts of the Defense, but the competence that's in the minds of those who are there today. HV-016 is a very special group. It's a group with very specialty competence, competence that we have to take care of. What I don't think the Council of State responded to is how the competence that lies here should be safeguarded in a new design. Is it that the social-democratic government is just concerned about the boxes, and not who's inside the boxes? That's the competence we're afraid of losing. This isn't anybody, this is the well-trained part. They're the ones who are also involved and contribute to our foreign operations. These are the ones you have to go with when you're going to participate internationally. How can you be sure that you have that competence? We always get a home protection that's good at wearing sandbags or at standing and looking after a bridge. But having a strength like HV-016 in terms of competence has been very special. I have to say, after the statements of the Council of State, that I do not feel secure about understanding how that competence should be safeguarded. It is important for citizens of Oslo. It's important for how our Homeland Protection should be in the future. But this also has an estimate that it's important for our foreign missions, because these are people we're going to take care of. So I might have wanted the Council of State to move up a little bit from squares, boxes and reorganization and rather think about how to take care of a unique competence in our defence that we need in the future for our own security, but also for our own participation in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e497	Today's debate has made it possible to focus constructively on the status of the Heimevernet. It shows that general questions about the organisation and development of Home Affairs are firmly anchored in the Stortinget. It also shows an engagement at the level of detail, and I consider that to be a basic strength for a council of states. When I say that the Chief of Defense's decision on HV-016, I am nevertheless concerned immediately to stress that it is important to improve the skills of the forces of intervention, and that I expect the Chief of Defense and the Director-General of Homeland Protection to follow this up in a good manner. It is true, as it was said, that the contribution of Home Protection to foreign operations is also significant, and it is important to stress that we are acquiring that competence from larger parts of Home Protection, and not just from the 180 in HV-016. The input strengths count up to 5,000, as I mentioned. Today, they're over 3,600 – I think 3,608, to be correct – just to make it firm, because I think the committee chairman mentioned approx. Three hundred. The second reason why I think this debate is important is, as was also mentioned earlier, the privilege we have to discuss how to use increased resources. In fact, measures to cut the defence budget are in the fortunate situation that we do not need to debate today in this Chamber. And I have to say, after meeting several of my European colleagues in the last 14 days, that I can't be very clear about the good situation we're in, with good control of our economy, good economic governance. It also includes the defence budget. I also appreciate the cross-political consensus that has emerged today on the central importance of Home Affairs also in the defence of the future. Home protection shall be further developed within the framework laid down by the Storting and followed up by the Government. The quality reform has modernised Home Protection, precisely to meet the new threats that the representative Skei Grande was also facing. Now there is more exercise, training and new equipment that is needed to ensure the political role of Home Protection and that is necessary for the Home Protection system to continue to comply with its motto: protection, watch and function. My constitutional responsibility is clear, and of course I am dealing with the decisions that have been made in this Chamber. For me, it is also gratifying to record broad agreement on the importance of a clear framework for the exercise of operational professional responsibility. It's rational for everyone. It provides a clear division of labour between the Enlarged Council’s overall decision, the follow-up guidelines of the Government and the implementation of the Defence Manager within just the overall political framework, and ensures predictability for the Defence Manager as well. I register that someone has called for my presence in the media. For me, it is important to stress that I come at any time asking a question in this room, or whether it is done in writing, or whether it is related to dealing with matters, such as: the budget, which is ready for consideration in a short time. I just have to stress that there have been significant changes in the defence sector in recent years. These are very important. About 31 B.C.E. kr has just been released through internal conversion measures for the period 2002-2011. It would hardly have been possible without just clear responsibilities, appropriate worksharing, rational operational solutions and targeted use of allocated resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e518	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e521	I have a simple question for the Council of State. Does the Council of State think that through the fact that Bergen's Official Journal was the first to get on the track and briefed on the delay in the delivery of the JSFs, and the fact that the evening post was they who blew the news about changes for Garden and 016 have complied with their information obligation to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e528	I have a year's practice from the media industry, but I am not able to control what is written at any time in Norwegian newspapers. What I am very concerned about is good information to the Stortinget, based on the facts that come, either in the project related to F-35 – which Ellingen was in – or related to other important defence projects. And the representative can assume that I will also be concerned about following up on this in the future. However, I cannot promise that the newspapers do not write about these projects, either on the basis of sources we do not know, or whether they also have information we do not have access to. Then, of course, we will start as soon as possible to verify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e537	That the Council of State does not have full control over what the media does at any time, we can understand. With regard to the defence's own personnel, and what they say, the Council of State obviously has a different role. Is the council satisfied with, does she recognize, and can she stand by the descriptions given by the defense's top management by HV-016?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e544	I don't think it's right for me to give characteristics, either of individuals or of concrete statements. Then I include both the head of defense and those who have expressed opposition to his decision. What matters to me is that the head of defense has stated that he wants the soldiers in HV-016 to continue in the intervention force. I put that behind me, I think it's very central in the further follow-up. Here you are sitting with heavy skills that we have to know to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e551	Let me first say that the article on the delay of the JSF, which was printed in Stavanger Aftenblad, was an article written by the Minister of Defence himself, and that was printed in the paper long before Stortinget was informed. At least this must be checked by the Ministry of Defence. It still seems to me as very unclear why HV-016 is dropped. It began as a matter of financial savings. Then it was argued that HV-016's tasks had gone away. Then it was claimed that the department had survived by an incurrency. And finally, November 8th, the head of defense suggested that this was a department out of control, which had undertaken tasks and provided its own equipment. On the following day, November 9, Secretary of State Roger Ingebrichtsen is standing at the pulpit of the Landsrådet för Heimevernet, boasting unhindered by HV-016 and saying: ‘These troops have some of the best soldiers in HV. A small strength of high quality.’» What's the real reason why HV-016 is dropped?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e563	I have to admit that I have had several posts in Stavanger AFTENblad, so I was not quite sure on the move that this could apply to my own. I'm going to try to remember the dates when these are standing, also in e.g. Stavanger Aftenblad. The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and I have discussed various questions on previous occasions related to tasks that have fallen away for HV-016. I've explained what's the motivation of the changed organization. I assume that there is a systematic effort to maintain competence. I also record what the Inspector-General for Home Affairs says about the priorities she wants to do in a situation where there is both extra funding and a conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e570	I record that the Council of State does not have the ability to explain what among all these reasons is the real reason why HV-016 is laid down. At the same meeting of the National Council for the Protection of Home Affairs, the Minister of State said: ‘Anterrorism tasks are the responsibility of the police and, upon request, relevant military capabilities to be used by the FSK.’;» After HV-016, and FSK for shorter or longer periods have been deployed abroad, e.g. in Afghanistan, who is responsible for providing police assistance if necessary? And how does this affect the preparedness of our largest cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e582	It's the effort forces. And it's precisely the transformation of Homeland Protection, the quality reform, that makes Homeland better able to meet a changed threat picture and changing challenges. I explained the real reason for the change in the structure of the response groups. I can only regret that the time available in the reply does not allow me to repeat this in detail, but the reason is given. In particular, emphasis has been placed on the continuous conversion work, which is also a heavy responsibility for the Inspector-General of Home Affairs. Because it's right, as I say, that Home Security is being given fresh funds. But it is also important to point out that a conversion work is to be carried out, and it must run continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e590	I'm a little surprised by the Council of State's response to this change of line, because here there is quite a fundamental question from the opposition in the Stortinget about the Government's ambitions in informing the Storting about ongoing issues in the Home Office. The Council of State responds by pointing out that she does not edit the country's newspapers. That's what Stortinget knows. But what the Storting would like to know is whether the Council of State is satisfied with the level of information that the Storting has received about the development of Home Security and the Home Protection Organization in particular, which has been raised in this matter, or whether the Council intends to intensify its compliance with the information obligation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e595	As I mentioned in the article, I am pleased with the attention that Homeland Protection gets from Stortinget. There is a thorough review of it in three long-term plans, in the quality reform of Heimevernet and, of course, in the annual budget proposals. My intention is, of course, to contribute continuously with information on the development of the Home Office. I have also expressed the concerns of the Home Office, which we have therefore prioritised in the next year's budget, where it is of course important that this be followed further, also in a more holistic context with the Defence for the rest. That is why, as I said, Home Protection is already an important part of the preparatory work we have started on a new long-term plan. So I look forward to also discussing Home Protection with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e602	I want to get an answer to what we think is our main challenge in terms of the Council of State presentation. It's about how we're gonna take care of our skills. The size is generally concerned about the training frequency and exercise in the Home Office. We have a group of people with a lot of expertise, with a lot of practice behind us -- a group that can really contribute with competence into the system. So my question is, how will the Council of States take care of that competence, that knowledge, that contributes to our security here, but that is also important to our foreign forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e609	I am, like Skei Grande, concerned to take care of this competence. I assume that the Chief of Defense and the Inspector-General of Homeland Protection will provide as soon as possible with a good process on how to make the best use of the competence of the response forces in the continuation. The input forces are the units of the Home Screen set up with the highest level of training. How we can ensure that this also benefits other parts of the response force is important to clarify as quickly as possible. Action forces have important tasks, both in cooperation with other civil authorities and with other defences. So this is heavy on my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e616	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e619	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for its briefing. The heading of the case that we are now dealing with in Stortinget is the situation in Home Security and the significance of Defence. I still think it's important to look forward to Home Affairs, which task it should have, as we have also said politically about. It shall include, inter alia: be adapted to an unforeseeable and unforeseeable threat picture which may arise; it shall be flexible; it shall continue a decentralised division of districts with a presence in all parts of the country and districts; it shall be eleven district posts; it shall be annual training of most of the operational force; it shall be allocated financial resources so that it is sustainable in the intentions we base; and not least, as the minister had in mind, it shall assist civil society in critical situations. We have adopted a quality reform and said something about it in Stortinget. It has three main points: that the personnel must have the right competence, that they must have modern material, and not least that they must have annual quality training. The establishment of an intervention defence is essentially about the cessation of traditional defence against an invasion threat, but should be able to respond to different security challenges where they may arise. Today's protection of homes is the task of protecting important infrastructure, supporting national crisis management, strengthening military presence and, above all, supporting civil society. At the same time, the Home Office has territorial responsibility. I would also like to emphasise that the predominantly part of the Homeland Protection Teams are both well motivated and committed people. They show a willingness to defend, pride and enthusiasm of which there is great respect. Home security has taken hold of all the changes that the Defense has made in recent years, and loyally followed up on what has been decided by the political authorities. Central to the transition has been the establishment of our intervention forces. Today we have up to 5,000 soldiers with capacity for land, air and maritime protection. The defence's tasks have changed. The quality of organisations is now more capable of effort than volume and presence. Home security has reduced volume and replaced full mobilisation with reaction capability, modern material and endurance. Nevertheless, we have managed to maintain local anchoring and proximity to society. The Home Office still has some shortcomings in its organisation. In particular, there is a lack of training and training of site structures. However, we are about to reverse this trend, and by 2012, when the defence according to the long-term programme is to be balanced, we will have at least an annual exercise of 50 pst. of the area structure. The question is whether we should not seek an even higher level of training and practice after 2012. Today, the Home Office maintains contact with civil society and territorial responsibility through a very close network between the heads of the Home Office and the state, police officers, rapporteurs and other officials. This cooperation is based on trust and knowledge of each other. We have moved from a Homeland Protection that was adapted to the Cold War, with an invasion scenario, to a new Homeland Protection that is adapted to the new threat picture. The Home Office had large and staffed departments that solved static tasks on fixed objects. Today, we have departments with a size that is always adapted to the operational needs and tasks to be solved. Home security is for the first time mobile, which enables us to be in the right place at the right time with the right capacities. This implies that Home Security will also be good at providing assistance to civil society. I'm recording that lately there's been a lot in the media about Homeland Protection. I would like to stress from the Labour Party that we are concerned about Home Affairs, and that we will prioritise it in the future. I also see that Home Security has a number of challenges, but we will take responsibility for developing full operational home protection with satisfactory training and training patterns for both the effort, reinforcement and follow-up forces. I also fully agree with the Minister of Defence's statement on this matter here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e657	I too would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. I fully understand that it is not easy for any defence minister in Norway to get the ambitions that we have, that the Norwegian people have, and that the Defense itself has, to go with the defence budget this big business continues to deliver every year – at least as long as I have been with it. I know the Norwegian defense, which consists of many women and men who are engaged, who are happy in their job, who burn for what they are doing and who have competence, and where those who have long-term contracts stand year after year. And that's not a lot of complaint. But of course, this patience has a limit. It's about what we've been talking about, you don't get to practice. That's one thing. This is serious enough, and it must be addressed. But when, as a soldier, you try to be loyal, and then you experience – right or wrong – that management is not loyal back, it becomes a challenge. Then it will be a challenge for the Storting, it will be a challenge for the Minister of Defense, and it will be a challenge for the rest of the defence management. Then we get into the vicious circle that we are unfortunately now partly about to end up in, where parts of the defense go to war in the courtroom, with each other. Then I'm worried when we have a defense that's not in harmony with itself. We can do a lot, but starting that fight there, it's tough. The Minister of Defence must take part in the responsibility for having ended up in this situation, in order not to stop bad press statements about the developments that have taken place and an unfortunate process related to HV-016. Then we have a discussion that is important, related to the role of HV-016 and whether it is right in relation to our order to put down HV-016. I think it's even more urgent to discuss the way this has happened, because it's a signal to other parts of Norwegian defence. Because it is not that changes in the defence are exceptional; it is part of the ongoing process. Then we have to get a lot better at dealing with this. So to some of the concrete relationships. The move to the Cube Moon has been up. The investment costs to be taken outside HV assume that increased operating costs shall not exceed HV. My question to the Council of State is: will other parts of the defence reduce its budgets as a result? This is related, and we are now isolating this debate a little bit to HV, but it is important to raise this up and look at the overall situation of the defence. And as my fellow committee member, Mr Ellingen, has pointed out, the budgetary situation in the other parts of the defence is not very good either. As a continuation of the budgetary situation: the representative Solhell presented it in a completely different way than any of us who have tried to draw up a picture. He says that we are in a situation where we are increasing the defence budget, and where we are far advanced in NATO in terms of the use of the defence budget. It's true if we measure the way Soljell chooses to measure, but the real situation is that the operating budget is going to be reduced – once again. The real situation is that Norway's area, which we have to monitor and ensure that we have sovereignty over, is increasing year by year, while at the same time reducing defence capabilities. Defence capabilities are reduced. The overall operational capacity of the Defence, including all defence sectors, is reduced. And that's a concern for the Storting. That's it, among other things, we're trying to address today, and we're also going to talk about it on Friday in one week. If we get strengthened out of these debates in relation to capacity, I am unfortunately doubtful about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e671	I believe that the Minister of Defense has given the Stortinget a good account of the situation in Homeland Protection, and it documents in a very good way, I believe, a total accumulation of perceptions of the importance of Homeland Protection, and the importance of Homeland Protection as part of the structure of our Defence. I would also say, so that it should also be said from my side, that with regard to the personnel of the Home Office, it can only be said good words about them. The representative, Høglund, just before me, said that it was very important and necessary that the political and military leadership of the defence constantly sought to avoid such situations as we have had in recent days, especially in connection with the HV-016 department. I think there's a complete consensus that there's an unfortunate situation that we all have to try to avoid. Of course, it is important that the military and political leadership look at this in time to come, and provide, to the best of their ability, to say so, to prevent such situations from reoccurring. After all, we all know now that the structure we have for the Heimevertet is in the framework of the long-term plan, which is thus called the quality reform. It has provided new guidance on how the Home Protection system should work, and it requires a whole new type of preparedness. What is known as the response forces shall step where necessary, and watch and security is the assistance HV shall provide mainly to the police in the course of anti-terrorism operations. I would say, in the extension of that reasoning, that it is difficult, at least for me, to understand the recent claims that the anti-terrorism capacity in Norway has been weakened by the closure of the HV-016 summits. I don't understand that reasoning, and I think it's a side argument. So there's been a lot of talk about the level of practice, and the Minister of Defense explained it in a very good and transparent way, I would say. I understood her this way – and the whole Biggest expresses it – that there is concern that the level of exercise for the Homeland Protection has been too low. Now a very clear step-up plan is being presented for the exercise level of Home Affairs, which is to meet the goal of the Storting, and that of course you aim to meet what has already been agreed, namely to practice up to 50 pst. by 2012. So I would say, especially with the address of the opposition, that this is worrying: yes, we agree that it is worrying. But then I want to use the expression that it is “a little unreasonable” when this is criticized as strongly as part of the opposition has done in its posts. So we've been told by the Council of State, and it's obvious to everyone that when this escalation plan for home security practice is the way it is, it's because you've had to deal with this in relation to other tasks that you've had to do in implementing the big shift in the entire defence. In fact, I also think that the opposition should be taken into account, when they come up with too strong criticisms on some points regarding the situation of Home Affairs. It's understandable that the government has handled it this way. Finally, I would like to comment on this very special link to HV-016. I agree with the views that Højbråten made in his speech on the role of Stortingen, but at the same time I would like to say that it is of course absolutely necessary for the Stortingen to have an influence on what is happening. The size determines what is important for the Size. I agree, but at the same time, the Storting has to frame. The announcement has made its decisions, and I believe that the Council of State and the head of defence have not gone beyond their powers when they have made the arrangements they have made in connection with HV-016. I trust that it is a military professional assessment that has been made, and I take note of the statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e693	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e696	It is fundamentally positive that the statement is kept. It is fundamentally positive that the Stortinget debates the Heimevertelsen in a wider sense. The statement, on the other hand, shows clear weaknesses in the government's defence policy. It also clearly shows that the questions raised by the opposition are still largely unanswered. The statement also shows, with subsequent debate, that there are obvious shortcomings in the information flowing to the Stortinget from the Ministry. When one of the opposition parties asks such clear questions as: is linked to the costs of moving the management of Home Protection, and is not given an answer, that means that the Ministry of Defence itself does not know, which is serious in itself, and that one cannot obtain detailed knowledge of it and pass it on to the opposition. This is just one of the elements of this, and it's not good for either the Right Party or the other opposition parties to make decisions in the Storting that you don't know the consequences of. But then to what the Council of State also said in its statement: Home Security is visible in society. Home protection shall protect infrastructure, support civil society and assist in crises. Home protection shall be available in all parts of the country and may be deployed in all parts of the country. This shares the whole Stortinget. But the problem is that today's Minister of Defence and the politics of the government parties are doing something quite different. When HV-07 was closed, it was Storting's intention that there should not be a change in the defence of the South. There were also clear promises made in Stortinget. Those promises are now breaking. When the Home Guard force Varg moves to Rogaland, it's a de facto closure. You remove two of the troops, you remove the management locally, and you go from six to three. It is also said – and the Minister of Defence's statement is directly wrong – that up to 50 pst. the training shall take place in Rogaland. But the soldiers won't get compensation for the transport if it doesn't happen with public transport. That means that the soldiers themselves have said that they don't want to go on. This is known by the Minister of Defence, and it leads to a de facto closure of the intervention force and a poorer defence for the southern part of the country, which seems to have been forgotten every single time this is addressed to debate, and the people of the South cannot live with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e710	There's a picture that we have a HV in great decline and in deep crisis. The reality is that we have a home security that is changing, like the rest of the defense, in quality building and improvement. But we're not in the target yet, we're not, but we're on the right track, and we're on the right track, as the Minister of Defence explained in a thorough manner. The representative, Mr Højbräten, wanted to endorse the proposal that will probably appear in one week's time when we are going to discuss the budget, a proposal for a separate report on home affairs. I don't share that view. It would be unnatural to take out one element in a long-term plan that deals with the whole defence before we are at the end of that period, and there will be a new four-year perspective – not such a long-term plan that we have had in the past, with everything in the air, but a four-year perspective where we also have the opportunity to discuss the different elements in the context. That is why we believe that a separate big message would now be unnatural. Then, of course, I agree with the Højbråten, which says that it is the Storting itself that determines what the Storting will take up. Yes! But what the Biggest has to ask is how appropriate it is that the Biggest goes too far into the details of conversion processes, whether it's defence, police or anything. Our task is to set goals and provide frameworks. Conversion requires change. I'm surprised that parties that want the most conversion possible, for example. The party of progress, warns against touching the defense and the statesmen's offices, because they're so popularly anchored. Change gives resistance and protests. I'm very concerned that we'll let the Storting become a rematch for dissatisfaction. It weakens the efficiency and weakens the ability of leaders to implement and achieve the objectives set by Stortinget through conversion. There's going to be a need for more migration, in the health sector, in the defense, in the Home Security and in other parts of society if we're to meet the tasks. In the case of HV-016, I understand that the special tasks this force was created for in its time, in the 1980s, are gone – escort and lifeguard service. It should enter as part of a much wider input strength. Then my question is: is it right to spend large resources on training and administration of 4 pst? by the intervention force, rather than using those resources on the entire intervention force, as I believe the defence manager should do? I think that's right, that makes sense, and it's clearly within what should be the responsibility of the head of defence. I think it's wise that we don't get involved in it politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e723	At the end of the speech, which is concerned that the Storting can become an arena for rematches, I think I would say that it is inevitable in situations where the Storting believes you should have had more information than what was given in advance. But you avoid rematches if you take the trouble of keeping the Storting sufficiently informed before decisions are made. Switching to the Defense is difficult. All the changes are. It often creates noise, and sometimes there is resistance to change. I noticed that the Minister of Defense said in his statement that both she and the head of defence were committed to maintaining the competent staff of HV-016. I'm glad. But after following this matter in the media, I cannot say that it is particularly well arranged for that competence to be preserved. The level of frustration now in HV-016, which alone is the responsibility of the head of defence and the Minister of Defence, does not facilitate the fact that these peoples think it is all right to continue in Defence. It's very sad. In addition, I have registered that the head of defence thinks it has been unpleasant in this matter with all this political interference. Among other things, he said: to NRK Evening News on 8 November 2010: A lot has been mobilised on policy teams to maintain HV-016 departments. I'm now talking to the Norwegian people and to all the Homeland soldiers we have out there. The defence manager's obligation is that our tax money is spent in a sound and reasonable way. I thought the defense chief's duty was to follow up the decisions and assumptions that this would take into account. It's possible that we don't fully agree on that. If you follow the image of the media, from this case started until it may now be in the process of coming to an end, the Ministry of Defence appears to be a department with weak political leadership – the stronger administrative management. It's very unfortunate for the department, for the Stortinget and for Norway, and I hope it's wrong. But I still allow myself to challenge the Council of States quite concretely, and I hope she will answer that question today from this pulpit: can the Council of State assure the Government that the closure now adopted by HV-016 does not in any way affect the ability of the Home Office to contribute to security and preparedness in the fight against terrorism? I'm asking the constitutionally responsible to answer that question exactly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e734	I agree with what Eva Kristin Hansen had to say earlier today, about talking together and the role of the Storting in this process. I guess it's been unison here today, and otherwise you're talking about HV-016 that troops with a high level of competence, with frequent exercises, they're very motivated, and it's been invested in building up the resource that they are, for many years. I don't want to get involved at the troop level in terms of organisation in Defense. But when you're about to reorganize, I think it's very important to have a plan for how to bring people, and that you trust that even HV-016 and others will be constructive, loyal people who want to find the best solutions, and who are willing to participate in conversions. You have to assume that it's essential to make big changes in many areas, but you have to start by having a plan to get them involved. That's what's a main question here today, and in the situation that's arisen, that plan may not have been good enough in this process – perhaps to say it a little cautiously. The words that have been used in the media that you have taken on tasks you should not have, and that you have almost existed in an incursion, are no good way to bring people along if you're going to have a plan for how to use the resource you've been investing in for years, in a different way. I would like to encourage a very fundamental, self-critical, responsive initiative to bring together the parties to start from the bottom again to get that process into a better track. I also thought the Council of State responded positively to it in the line change earlier. I think it's important to remember that the effort force, for example. in Oslo and Akershus, there are actually 400 operational crews who will be able to set up. When you talk about quality in Homeland Protection, this contribution – this part that is HV-016 – could be a very important part of that quality, if you get this reorganized in a good way and get it into a better track. This is a slightly designed discussion of the role these should possibly assist the police when requested to do so in relation to terrorist situations. It's about being fast present. When it comes to getting there quickly, we in the capital – and certainly in other population-centric areas – will be concerned that we have the opportunity to use the resources that we are talking about here, so we will get an even better effort by also getting HV-016 involved in that structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e749	The debate here today has not made me much wiser considering the background to HV-016 being closed down. It still cracks in all directions, depending on which representative is on the pulpit. And the Council of State was unable to give an answer to what she thought was the reason for this. I have two specific questions to the Council of State, which I expect to have clear answers to. Firstly, when the Stortinget set up HV-SPES, the predecessor of HV-016, in 1987, it was a clear decision by a unanimous defence committee. What clear decisions has the Stortinge given to go the other way, namely to shut down HV-016? That's the first question. Secondly, I have still not received any answer to my questions relating to the removal costs of the HV staff, based on the statement made by the Council of State. On the contrary, the Council of State says that we should exploit existing military buildings, but that there will be some building costs, and that will not lead to an increase in operating pressure. At a meeting with the Landsrådet för Heimevernet on 9 November, the Inspector-General for Heimevernet says the following: ‘There are no facilities available at the Teringmoen Costs not calculated The removal costs are not covered in the budget.’ [[offices and commuting houses]] Now when you talk about the 1.3 million. kr that HV gets extra to practice 18 pst. more than they do this year, they are eaten very easily by unforeseeable removal costs. The right has not spoken against the move geographically, but we have asked some clear questions about the costs. And my question to the Council of State is really very simple: Does the Ministry of Defence have control over the costs of moving the HV staff from Oslo to the Terningmoen? It's a simple yes-or-no question. Finally, I would just like to stress the one answer I received in my reply, namely that the council had written an article in Stavanger Aftenblad, and thus had to have control of the information flow from the department, where she said that she did not have a complete overview of what dates things had been sent in, and was going to try to get better the next time. I expect more than that the Council of State is trying to get better with information going out into the media before it gets to Stortinget. This the Council of State knows well, because we've discussed this before as well. It is not sufficient and it is not acceptable for Stortinget that the media are provided with material information long before Stortinget receives the same information. So my questions are: What basis is there in the Storting to put down the HV-016 power created by the Storing? Does the Ministry of Defence control the costs of moving the HV staff from Oslo to the Terningmoen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e773	I want to start with something else. It's almost touching to hear representatives from Kolberg and Hansen describing how important it is to have the right approaches. The size should look at the general principles – it is important – and then you should have the operational down. I agree. I fully agree with the concerns that the Storting should carry out detailed work. I don't think the Storting has competence for that, and the Storting shouldn't do that when others have better skills for it. I actually think that's what I said in my first post. That is not what the debate has been about today. What has been discussed today is whether the information obligation towards Stortinget has been respected by the Minister of Defence. That's the political balance we've had today. Another thing that strikes me, is that if there had been another government that had put this forward and done the same thing that the sitting government has done, would the two mentioned gentlemen have been equally satisfied? Would you have experienced such balanced and calm representatives – Hansen and Kolberg – as you have done today? It's my assumption that it probably wouldn't have been like that. Among other things, the representative Kolberg said: in his post that he thought that the opposition went far in his strong criticism. But with the debate last night fresh in memory, I perceived the same Kolberg as being extremely concerned with the difference between the position's reason and the opposition's reason. If that's the assumption, I guess the same set of rules apply here today. We have certainly not changed either the Rules of Procedure or anything else since last night, even though we were holding on for a long time and that was a comprehensive vote. So I'm a little surprised by the cautious approach especially from Kolberg, because I thought he was actually one who was concerned about the differences, the concerns of ideology and the cultivation of responsibility and good solutions. When we reserve the right to point out poor solutions, for which he has part of the responsibility, I expected him to think it was reasonable – just as he has the ability to criticize us for our seemingly poor solutions from his point of view. But the most important thing, I think, is not the details, but whether the Council of State has complied with the information obligation. I don't see the Council of State taking self-criticism. I perceive that the Council of State is expounding the facts, among other things. by referring to the reading instructions, which I find completely immaterial in this matter. If it is the case that we expect the Stortinge to follow through with what the government is doing, through reading, then at least we have to change the Rules of Procedure, because it is not a precondition today. On the other hand, I want to give tribute to many in the Workers' Party and in the other red-green parties who have actually had a taste of humility. They have said that we can get better, things can be done better, in a better way, to make sure that we comply with the information obligation to the Storting. I think you should listen to that. Self-intention is not always as pleasant, but sometimes presumptuous.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e786	This matter is not essentially about what the representative Ellingen was very concerned about in the middle of his post right before me, namely whether the Council of State has complied with the information obligation to Stortingen. The example of Ellingsen refers to, the chronicle and the article in Stavanger Aftenblad, was about JSF, and this case is about Homeland Protection. There is no doubt that the Council of State has complied with the obligation to provide information to the Stortinget and that what is going on around the reorganisation of HV is a follow-up to the adopted quality reform. I want to sort a little bit in the debate, because I think it's essentially two issues. One is what place the Home Office has in the overall defence, and the debate about standing in the demanding transition that is taking place. There I perceive that there has been a very broad consensus on the description of reality, both that HV is in a tough process of conversion, that there is a need to train and practice more, and that cross-politically we are very concerned about getting as much money released and out into that pointed end also in this part of Defense. Nor have I heard anyone say in the course of the debate that we should stop the change that has been adopted or that we should reverse the adopted quality reform. On the contrary, I actually perceive that there is broad political consensus on these things. Then the second debate, as I see it, goes around how the division of labour should be between big business, government and head of defense. There I would like to point out good articles, among others. by the representative of Kolberg who said something about it. I also understand that there is a great deal of consensus in this Chamber that there must be a division of labour, that there must be a balance in the division of labour between big business, government and head of defence, where the Stortinge provides the overall framework, where the government is the executive, and where the head of defence – of course within the framework – can organise its activities. Then what the head of defence does at all times must be in line with adopted policies. I have not realized that any of what is going on in this matter is contrary to adopted policies in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e797	I just want to stress what the representative, Laila Gustavsen, said when it came to the information requirement. Progress is being made both in the quality reform of Heimevernet and in the other position of defence in the annual budgets. Then you can always discuss how detailed and comprehensive this should be, but I believe that there is no basis for saying that the Storting should have been informed about something it has not been informed about. What really made me ask for the floor again was the representative Anundsen, the head of the control committee, who quoted the defense chief's statement about his duty to manage taxpayers' money in the best possible way. That's what I thought Anundsen would enjoy, but it didn't sound like that. I would like to stress from this pulpit what the head of defence says. It's very important. He runs a department that at the beginning of this decade spent billions of dollars that they had not been granted by the Storting. There's been a hell of a job in the defense to get control of the expenses. It deserves support and not undermine, which I believe Anundsen contributed to when he ridiculed that statement. There are too many in public agencies who do not have sufficient control over their operating expenses and who are betting on being forgiven for spending money that the Stortinget has not granted. And there's too few here in the Biggest that knock it down, not least in the health sector. I believe that one of the most important things we should be demanding is respect for a decision on big business – including a decision on appropriations. This debate will probably continue in a week, and I think it would be the right framework to have the debate on Home Affairs in, in budgetary terms. Because it's about how much of the total budget we want to give priority to Home Affairs in order to speed up the implementation of the quality reform, not least what has been agreed is the weak point now, the exercise and the level of practice. So Ellings asked if Mr. Kolberg would be equally calm and balanced if there had been another government. Yes, I believe that we have a common responsibility to have as realistic a description of reality as possible. Ellings can read my posts in the first period, when I was in opposition, I hope he will be reassured.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e810	I have received some specific questions and will try to answer them. I'm very humble to the challenges in HV. I'm glad that more people are concerned about caring for the soldiers in HV-016 and getting them to move on, just as I am. I am therefore pleased to hear that parts of HV-016 have already notified the Inspector-General of the Heimevertet that they will continue in the effort forces. The reason why the Chief of Defense removes the primary tasks of HV-016, military bodyguard and escort, is, as I explained, that the personnel they were primarily supposed to protect are no longer in the structure. So the problem has gone away. Information for Stortingen has been mentioned in several articles, and I am busy providing as much information as possible. The size was also recently informed by the Chief of Defense’s statement on the operational capacity of the Foreign and Defence Committee. The Chief of Defence assesses the operational capability of the Home Guard as satisfactory. Questions were asked about whether we have control of the budget. Of course, we have control, and of course we are committed to getting the costs of moving the Inspector General of the Home Security with the staff as low as possible. With regard to removal costs, the Ministry has not said that this is too complicated to answer. We have said that the final costs cannot be stated precisely until the detailed planning has been completed. What the department knows is that the investment cost is going to be 63 million. kr if no existing EBA is exploited but everything is rebuilt. We could give this number as final, but find it more responsible to work to bring down costs. I have tried to understand the framework for the question from the chairman of the committee, and her reference to opinions back in the 1980s. The quality reform for Home Affairs is the basic one, and it has been formalised. But there are two opinions from committees I want to refer to. One is from Stortinget's treatment of St.prp. No 42 for 2003–2004, where the majority wrote in the statement: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party also refer to the text of the Proposition relating to the modernisation of HV in order to make it a modernised tool against the threats posed by today’s security policy situation. These members consider that the proposal submitted is well on the way to meeting the requests of the Storting.’.» I should refer to another statement. However, it is from 2002, and we will get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e830	The last thing I'm sure Eriksen Soreide will come back to himself. But I realized that it was the decision that lifted the decision to set up the predecessor of HV-016 that the committee chairman asked for, and I can't say that the Council of State has explained that. What made me take the floor was, perhaps not surprising, the remarkable contribution of the representative Svein Roald Hansen, where he suggested that I was not concerned about how tax money was used. I don't want that hanging out with me. I am very concerned about that, and I wish that both the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defence were equally concerned about it. Svein Roald Hansen himself has experience from the Control and Constitutional Committee and the annual observations of the National Audit Office on the Defence's budgetary management over time, so if one is to first find a prime example of good budgetary management and control, I would advise Svein Roald Hansen to use a different department or department than the Defence Department. Then I register that the Council of State in its reply now said that the task of HV-016 had fallen away. It is one of the key issues that has been addressed today. I note that there is a great deal of disagreement between the Defence and Defence, at different levels and in different areas, about whether it is right or not. I don't think we get the final answer to this today, but it could be one of the areas that will help to continue the debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e839	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e842	I agree with the representative Anundsen that the answer to my question seems to be missing. I have not received a response from the Council of State to what decision repeals the decision Stortinget first made to establish HV-SPES, i.e. later HV-016. Then I register that the Council of State now says in its last post that the tasks of HV-016 have fallen away. Then I assume that's what the Council of State means. But then there is disagreement in political leadership in the Ministry of Defence, for State Secretary Roger Ingebrichtsen said at this meeting with the National Council for the Protection of Home Affairs that the economic situation in HV required tough priorities. He said nothing about the problems falling away. I also notice that the Council of State says that of course they have control of the costs associated with moving the HV staff. Then I find it quite strange that the Storting cannot be presented with a single number material or calculation that can help tell me what the cost is, and to confirm that the Ministry of Defence has this control over the cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e852	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1071]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e868	Without any reduction for either the Council of State, the Riksrevision or the undersigned, but this debate may be anti-climate compared to the previous one. Now it is about the control of the National Audit Office, and what they have examined in relation to the Ministry of Agriculture, is, of course, a point on which the status and development of agriculture are in line with the Storting's objective of active, varied and attractive agriculture across the country that supplies food and common goods. And as point two, to what extent does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food carry out its management responsibilities, so that the objectives of the Storting can be achieved? And as a third point, to what extent does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food discharge its responsibility for an appropriate instrument? The investigation period includes many governments from 1999 to 2009. The survey shows that there has been a marked decrease in the number of agricultural holdings since 1999 and that the number of closures has increased compared to the previous decade. The closures are mainly for agricultural holdings under 200 deches, and about two thirds of all closures have been among holdings under 100 deches. Other agricultural holdings over 300 deer have increased at the same time. Developments have led to an increase in the concentration of agricultural holdings in Rogaland, the East and North-Trondelag. At the same time, there have been relatively fewer farms in northern Norway, in the Agder counties and in the West, with the exception of Rogaland. In particular, there has been a significant decrease in the number of dairy farms, where the number of farms has almost halved in the last ten years. However, the Ministry states that milk production has been maintained in all the counties, due to the quota system for milk combined with the economic instruments. Income from agriculture increased from 1999 to 2009 by under 50 pst. versus 57 pst. during the same period for all employees. It is also shown that the average age of farmers has increased from 48 to 50 years in the period and that age is increasing the smaller the area on the agricultural holding. There are also indications that agriculture in some forms of production is not sufficiently attractive to ensure long-term recruitment. It is good that the goal of food production has been achieved, but we will point out that this is the only set target that has actually been achieved, and it is worrying that the achievement of the target is varied for the other objectives. There are major challenges in those parts of the country where the natural conditions for agriculture are weak, and there is a risk of not maintaining active and varied agriculture throughout the country. Then, of course, you can ask yourself the following questions: Were the objectives set, realistic, or were they the result of political considerations? This often applies to what can be called a kind of political competition to promise as much as possible, which is not entirely unknown in the production of wholesale communications. I expect the government to take a close look at this in connection with the announced agricultural message that I understand is for discussion in the government parties – and therefore probably also in the government. It is a unanimous committee that is putting this forward. It is just one that we get to say the margin of this, where the majority of the Committee – the Right and the Advance Party do not belong to it in this context – gives some warning and asks that it is not just the quantitative objectives that become important but that other objectives are not ignored. Among the objectives are areas such as ‘storage, increased number of district jobs, improved environment and increased consumer confidence through high quality’. I quote here from the majority vote. So I just want to add -- I won't argue for this -- that this is the goal that is quantifiable in itself. The degree of self-sufficiency is that. It is stated in the document we are dealing with, that the level of self-sufficiency in agricultural products in Norway has increased from 43 pst. in 1999 to 49 p.m. in 2008. This means that about half of the food consumed today is produced in Norway on an energy basis. So this is also the goal that it is possible to quantify, but nevertheless the Riksrevision points out the problems of that there may be some kind of internal conflict between the objectives being set and that there is something that should be taken into account in the agricultural message that I have mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e891	Just a few very brief comments on the occasion of the case. It is granted according to the setting of approximately 14 billion. kr annually for agriculture, about which is channelled. 12 B.C.E. on the agricultural agreements. The agreement and the funds channelled through it shall contribute to the achievement of the objectives and guidelines drawn up by the Storting for agricultural policy. This is a large amount, and if so much money is to be spent on this first, it is very important that the funds are managed correctly and according to the guidelines we have given. The National Audit Office has carried out a survey of the achievement of the objectives and management of agriculture and notes that the objective of food production has been achieved, while expressing concern that the achievement of the target is somewhat different for other objectives. The National Audit Office also argues that it is important for the Ministry to clarify the further prerequisites for achieving its objectives on the basis of the political priorities of the Stortinge. A unanimous committee also clarifies that it is the responsibility of the Ministry to clarify what can be realistic target achievement. In addition, the National Audit Office points out that it is necessary to further operationalise the overall agricultural policy objectives through more concrete, demarcated and verifiable objectives as a basis for governance and performance measurement. Given the large amounts currently being spent on various agricultural grant schemes, it is very important to develop systems that are both accurate and verifiable. We therefore look forward to dealing with an agricultural notification where both this and other aspects of our agricultural policy are seriously and thoroughly reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e906	With regard to this report from the Riksrevision, I agree with the description given by the rapporteur. Let me begin by saying that it is a rather serious situational description given by the state and development of Norwegian agriculture and the primary production of food in this country. The whole hall should lie at the heart of the drive-up to the message work that has now started from the government on Norwegian food production. There are some points I would like to comment on. One is achievement. There I think it is a relevant criticism that comes from the Riksrevision, not only to the ministry, but also to the political environment, also to the Stortinget, as I read and interpret the report. Because it is a fact that there are many objectives in Norwegian agricultural policy. Some of them are partially contradictory. It makes it not easy to be a nutritionist, rather a government. There is also a responsibility that I think is largely due to this hall to clean up, so that you have strict, easily perceptible goals that it is possible to follow up in practice. Then the ministry should focus on the need to report back in an appropriate manner on the objectives that are actually there, and in such a way that the Stortinget has the opportunity to follow developments well. We read that the level of self-sufficiency in Norway has increased over the period. On the one hand, it's joyous. On the other hand, it is relevant to add that much of the reason why self-sufficiency has increased is the increase in the production of white meat. The increase is caused by increased imports of feed for human consumption. There is therefore no increase in Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. I think this hall should notice that. The level of self-sufficiency in Norway must, as I see it, rest on the resources we have, and the administration we are able to do on our own. Then it's interesting what the Riksrevision notes about control. It has also been noted in a unanimous vote by the Committee. If that's what I'm thinking, two things. One is of course that the control work as it is now gets a degree of criticism. On the other hand, I think we should be aware that we are not building too much bureaucracy, too big systems, which are going to follow this up. But an offensive approach to this will be to look at the way in which grant and support systems are developed, so that they are themselves objective and require little control and follow-up. There are many different Norwegian agricultural policy schemes. Some require a lot of management, others require very little. The more objective and simple these arrangements are, the less need for control will be. I think that all this is extremely important in the further work that the first government is going to do, and so this room is going to do, in relation to a new communication on agricultural policy. As I said, the developments described are serious. We need to address it, at least if we are to stick to the overall objectives of a majority of committee members here. I disagree with the rapporteur that it is a minor dissertation. It's a very serious one when you look at the target formulations to which all parties outside the Progress Party and the Right join.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e921	The National Audit Office has carried out a thorough and good review of agricultural policy and administration. In its report, the National Audit Office pointed out that the objectives of agricultural policy are being achieved to varying degrees, and that governance and management have potential for improvement in order to ensure the achievement of the objectives and to avoid mispayments. The National Audit Office's document with the Stortinget notes will be a useful document that the Ministry will use to improve policy and administration in the future. The National Audit Office’s assessments have mainly been based on developments over the past ten years, from 1998 to 2008. This government has implemented a price change in agricultural policy, with effect from 2006. The objectives are now weighted differently from those of the previous government. This has only partially been captured by the Riksrevision in its investigation, because it has occurred during the period. This applies, inter alia, to: income development, development of the number of enterprises, employment and priority for keeping open cultural landscapes through increased grazing. It is both enjoyable and important for our food supply that the Riksrevision concludes that the food production target is being achieved. It will also be a very important goal for policy-makers in the future – and as far as possible on national resources. I agree with the National Audit Office that there are significant challenges to achieving the overall objective of maintaining active and varied agriculture across the country. This has been a challenge for a long time, and for many years the Ministry has reported to the Storting about degrees of lack of achievement in some areas of the country. It is correct, as the Riksrevision points out, that the challenges are particularly great in parts of the country where the natural conditions for agriculture are weaker. This has also been given considerable weight by the government, among others. in the most recent agricultural declarations. The national audit identifies the need for both increased targeting and simplification of the instruments. These are issues we still have a lot of attention on. However, there are some contradictions between targeting and simplification. Increased targeting can provide a more comprehensive and differentiated tool system with increased red tape, while a simpler system may reduce the possibility of pursuing specific objectives. That is why we need to further develop the system that has started by simplifying, where appropriate, and targeting where it is important, in order to achieve the overall objectives. The National Audit Office points out some weaknesses in management control systems, but also indicates that the county's control work over the last two years has produced good results. We've had and have a lot of attention on these issues. Grants are an important and significant part of agricultural policy. It is therefore very important that both beneficiaries and society have confidence in the system. In addition to efficient and safe management, we need a robust control system. It is important both to avoid direct mispayments and to ensure that the instruments work in line with the objective. The national audit has pointed out that certain hazards of errors may arise. We're going to work on that. In this context, however, it should also be emphasised that all studies show that overall the extent of errors and error payments is relatively small. I am very aware that a robust control system that ensures against mispayments is important for both legitimacy and the integration of agricultural policy. Objectives, objectives and instruments will be central to the forthcoming major communication on agricultural and food policy. In that work, the Ministry will follow as far as possible the observations of the National Audit Office. At the same time, I think it is right to have ambitious objectives for this policy. It's important to have something to go after. The Ministry will follow up the Committee's comments on clarifying policy priorities and operationalising them in an appropriate manner. Priority is to balance cross-cutting considerations within a whole. That is the nature of politics. In agricultural policy too, we must balance conflicting objectives and considerations, and I am pleased that the committee in the vote has a awareness that agricultural policy has objectives. It is a political priority to balance conflicting objectives and considerations. It's what this government has tried to do, but we're going to get even clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e942	Finally, the Riksrevision – as the Board of Directors of the Stortinge – has presented its study of the achievement of the objectives and governance of agriculture, which can form the basis for an honest debate. This is happy news from the Riksaudition, and it's joyous news for the Storting. From my experience, we have to go back to the Stockholm agricultural escalation decision in 1975 to find a similar situation and a similar opportunity. What do I mean by this? Indeed, agricultural policy has been produced for decades for residents and farmers as something other than the political reality. There has been a significant impact on business operators, resulting in significant misinvestments. The Riksrevision’s summary of findings in Chapter 3 points out that the Storting i Innst. S. No 167 for 1999-2000 has stressed the need to ‘maintain active and varied agriculture throughout the country’, to ‘maintain decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use as an alternative to a more industrial-based industry’, and the need for ‘moderate development towards larger holdings’. The National Audit Office’s study shows, inter alia: a marked decrease in the number of farms in operation since 1999 and an increase in the closure compared to the previous ten-year period. The number of uses with dairy cows is almost halved. Labour productivity between 1990 and 1999 was positive 2.7 pst. For the period 1999–2008, it was of positive 4.9 pst., almost a double — a very, very high number in relation to business elsewhere in Norway. In terms of capital productivity, which is an equally significant concept in the socio-economic sense, it was in the period 1990-1999 of plus 2.8 pst, while for the period 1999-2008 it was of plus 1.6 pst., almost halved. Furthermore, the National Audit Office's report states that there has been a weaker trend in income in agriculture in the last ten years than in the case of employees, and that only 53 pst. by today’s farmers believe in the further operation of the farm. The Court of Auditors says: ‘Overall, this shows that there is a risk that there will be no trend towards maintaining active and varied agriculture throughout the country.’ In addition, the Riksrevision says: ‘However, the steering information contains to a small extent assessments of developments in relation to the overall objectives adopted by the Storting for the area. Following the National Audit Office’s assessment, questions may be asked about whether this governance information is adequately targeted at providing a comprehensive assessment of how the use of instruments and results contribute to the overall objectives of the sector and how any conflict of objectives is managed.’;» With the language of the National Audit Office, this is for me strong and clear points. Former Ministerial Council Per Harald Grue in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food throughout the period from the early 1980s to a few years ago, he was the chief official in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. He said: «The implemen­tation of agricultural policy has been very good. In fact, we have taken steps towards both employment and efficiency development.’ Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo has stated that ‘If the aim of agriculture is to produce as cheap food as possible, then policy is extremely successful’. This shows that there is a sharp contrast between what is in the innermost part. S. No 167 for 1999-2000, and, perhaps most importantly, the understanding of society that the document created versus what has actually been achieved. I welcome the vote by the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The majority say that it's worrying that the goal achievement is different for other goals, i.e. beyond the quantity of food. I am very pleased with the position, where it is also stated that it is important that the Ministry clarify the further prerequisites for good achievement based on the political priorities of the Stortinge – maritime. Then a new concept is introduced, namely realistic achievement of the goal. I hope that all objectives will be realistic. If there are no realistic targets, it leads to significant misallocation of resources. And it's completely possible to operate targets. As the rapporteur was concerned with the degree of maritime supply, it is one of the most easily operational concepts. As is currently being operated, imports of feed for livestock in Norway are not included in the degree of maritime supply. As we thus increase the import of flour into our livestock, which is now happening, it does not lead to any change in our maritime supply rate, as it is now defined. But the reality is that our ability to produce food for our own people is falling, and the degree of maritime supply calculated in this way gives a false picture. There has been a change in the content of the degree of maritime supply as it is now defined. It wasn't like that in the mid 1980s. So there's a need to clarify the terms so that we can have full clarity about whether the objectives are met, given agreed definitions. It is said from the majority – and I am very pleased too – and it is especially true that the Right Party and the Advance Party cannot participate in it, that it is important in the future to develop a common vision for agriculture, a common vision for agriculture: agriculture that is the use of land, or in the climate debate that we are in now, which is the recovery of solar energy. I hope the Minister of Agriculture remembers that definition: agriculture is the use of land. Agriculture is the vestment of solar energy. It is a definition that is in line with what is now the international challenge of the UN Food Organisation, that every country must use its natural resources to produce it as one with the best ability to produce, given a situation where we face significant food challenges. It also means that the uniting vision must be based on the old doctrine that agriculture should be built on plough cold, not on ship's keel. It shall be based on Norwegian natural resources, not imported natural resources. If agriculture is built on imported natural resources, it is an agriculture that is on the faltering feet in a situation where resources are scarce. It becomes its own ability to supply the population with food, which becomes the central one, and I hope it comes out in the collective vision. Finally, there is a good point in the vote, namely that an agricultural message is needed to address the fundamental conflicts in the achievement of the objectives. Yes, it must be clear that it is essential. And the most important conflict throughout the post-war period, right from the early 1950s, has been how one could combine an economic balancing of agriculture's practitioners with other professionals, while not having an overproduction of food. An overproduction of food, as we know, has no value; it's past. You have to balance production, and then you have to have a set of tools to ensure it. It's a demanding operation, but it's a completely possible operation if it's willing. Finally, there is also an agricultural sector that is both a good cultural carrier and provides room for increased creativity. I want to underline it. To put it another way, it is an agriculture that has roots and wings, which has anchoring and ability to convert and see the possibilities in time. This is a good and important basis for an honest debate on the future of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e997	I'll be very brief. I think Lundtägen has a lot of important points, which I understand the Council of State is coming back to, not least with self-sufficiency, of which the Committee's plurality has been a concern. In fact, I just take the word to point out a problem that I think exists in relation to the Riksrevision, and which I have also mentioned with the National Auditor a few times. It goes without saying that an auditor will always be busy counting something, for example. count money, which is easy to paint. That is why I am very pleased that the Committee points out this, that it must not only be quantity that is important, but also quality, and that we are now receiving from the Council of State an agricultural message that has an overall vision for agriculture and that can reflect the challenges pointed out by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in the report of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1004	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1071]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1020	Taking care of archive material in our municipalities can work for someone who is not that important – it's like writing the building history. But municipal archives are much more than urban history. Of course, it's important to have good archives when someone's going to tell the story of a local environment. But municipal archives mean something quite different. It is important to ensure transparency – public transparency in order to achieve good public debate. We're getting a lot of enquiries from people who are frustrated by the way they're treated by municipal authorities. Local media need it, but also citizens who want to see how matters are handled. That is also what ensures good practice. It is probably hardly one day without us, as deposit representatives, getting stories about strange proceedings, the papers that disappear, and the papers that suddenly appear again for a long time afterwards. Getting good practice throughout the process requires good records, and we have a little too many stories from both local and state government that you can't do it. Then it is important that a policy of good publicity and good practice should also safeguard privacy. In our meeting with the municipalities, it is very often that we have to provide the most personal information to get a fair trial. In that case, it is important that the archives maintain data protection in a good way. It is also important for our legal certainty. Having a good hearing also requires that there is a procedure that can be legally tried afterwards. This requires good archiving arrangements. What this report from the Riksrevision reveals is that we have major problems, both in relation to paper archives, in relation to electronic archives and in relation to setting up premises for archives. The Committee notes that the size of municipalities is also a challenge for our archives. Getting good records, good practices, requires competence – a competence that not all municipalities have. This is why the Ministry has a special challenge in monitoring that competence. That is what the Riksrevision points out in its report. As long as we have the municipal structure we have, the Ministry of Culture actually has a great responsibility to follow up that we get good archival practices in each municipality. It's important that the Ministry of Culture does. Then I want my own part – not as the case rapporteur – to comment on something related to the hearing we received from the archival organisation in this area, which points to it with competence building. In Norway today, we do not have a proper archival education, as many other countries do, where the archival subject is also at the master level. Yesterday we had a financial debate, where it was important for the Left to point out how building skills also in the public sector is by streamlining, creating better systems and creating a better municipality. This is a very good example of how such things work. The fact that we do not have competence in archives in municipalities, in the state and in county municipalities leads to the inefficient treatment of the case. We waste a lot of resources, the good process routines aren't going to be good, and we don't get good solutions for the individual citizen. Therefore, the building of competences is important in order to achieve this as well. So this is a good example of how the public sector could be more efficient if we had properly cared for education. It's a challenge for us as big-time politicians. The challenge for the ministry is to ensure that municipalities have this competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1041	I think I'm on safe ground if I assume that the question of how municipal archives are handled will not be decisive for the outcome of the next harvest elections. But it is an important matter, which was also referred to by the rapporteur. This case describes a state that provides a basis for concern. For me, there are three aspects of archives that I think this is the basis for stressing – I also agree with the rapporteur. First of all, I think the archives represent an important part of our collective memory. Secondly, municipal archives contain records and documents relating to important aspects of private law, such as: information on properties and other circumstances which may be of major economic importance to individuals. Thirdly, municipal archives contain personal data that must be processed in such a way that citizens have confidence that they do not end up on wrongful hands. In view of these circumstances, I believe, like the members of the Committee, that there is no basis for contentment with the situation. I have noticed some things that I would like to highlight: 70 municipalities will be outside intercommunal cooperation on the archive system as of 2009. According to the National Archives, only the largest of these municipalities have the prerequisites for solving these problems on their own. There's probably a signal from different authorities that there's a connection between the size of municipalities and the prerequisite for solving different statutory tasks. When municipalities post services involving persons with rights enshrined in individual decisions, the Riksrevision points out that municipalities are demanding, to a small or to a very small extent, that private enterprises comply with the rules on public archives. It is, in my opinion, unacceptable. In my opinion, this requirement must be part of the contract documents and above all for the sake of the safe and sound storage of sensitive personal data. Finally, I notice that the municipalities themselves point out the need to strengthen the legal competence and ICT competence of the archive managers. It is a responsibility that individual municipalities have and must follow up. Without such competence, it will also be very difficult to rectify the circumstances pointed out by the National Audit Office. I welcome the announced comprehensive plan for the archives sector from the Ministry of Culture, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Culture has announced that this work will be accelerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1058	The representative Sivertsen thought this was a matter that hardly came to be decisive for the municipal elections next autumn, and I think he is probably right in that. At least you can safely say that this is not the case in Stortinget that has created the biggest headlines. However, I would like to stress that this is a very important matter. In particular, I would like to highlight two aspects of the matter. One is historical and cultural history, and the other is the legal certainty of the citizens. To take the first step, municipalities manage through their business a significant part of our collective memory through all the documents received, processed and stored. It is of significant historical value that these are secured for the future. The second and at least equally important point is that documents and archives are important for the legal certainty of citizens. This concerns, among other things: on documents relating to the processing of land, construction, school matters, social affairs, etc. Public is not an organism that exists only for its own part. It has a central role to play in ensuring the legal certainty of citizens. I would also like to refer to the comments on the challenges of electronic archiving. It is pointed out by a Joint Committee that there is a need for cooperation between municipalities in order to obtain appropriate archival solutions. This is also a field where our community structure presents challenges in providing a good service to society. But there's another debate, and we're not going to start a long municipal debate at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1071	The Riksrevision's criticism of the lack of government governance and follow-up of the municipal archive sector is something I take seriously. I recognise that the Swedish Archives Agency's oversight has been deficient, and that it has now been seized to improve this situation. The National Audit Office points out that the deficiencies in the management of municipal archives could have been revealed at an earlier stage if the Swedish Archives Agency had carried out sufficient oversight. However, I would point out that the individual public body – municipal, county or state – has a separate responsibility to safeguard its own archives. However, the follow-up of municipal archives by the Swedish Archives must be improved. The municipalities manage a number of archives of major social importance, such as: related to the care of the elderly and the protection of children. It is important that sufficient evidence relating to these offers is provided. I want to put in place a comprehensive treatment of the archive sector. I will come back to Stortinget with suggestions on how this can be solved. The National Archivist’s supervisory function and guidance on the municipal sector are now part of the general governance dialogue between the Ministry and the Swedish Archives. It is also followed up in the governance documents of the Swedish Archives Agency. The National Archives have been asked to improve their supervisory function and report on the findings made, and they have already taken action to improve their procedures. The rules governing the archives are also under review. This will ensure a better overview of archive creators and better availability for individual users. I would also like to provide the basis for the technologically up-to-date archives. The aim is to improve information management across the public archive sector. From more concrete measures, I can mention that the National Archives recently sent letters to the municipalities asking them to report on a number of archive-related factors. The responses from this study will provide a basis for an assessment of the needs of individual municipalities for concrete guidance and where supervision is necessary. It also implements more general measures targeting the individual municipal sector: It is desirable that as many municipalities as possible participate in inter-municipal archival schemes to ensure good knowledge flow and robust professional environments. This is something the National Archivist encourages, but no local authorities can be required to do. The National Archivist has initiated the development of a high-level educational offer for archivists, of which the most central are the Academy of Archives, in cooperation with the Norwegian Board of Archives, and the archival study at the University of Oslo. The standard of electronic archiving in the public sector is continuously revised in order to keep up with the organisational, legal and technological changes of the management. The Swedish Archives Agency is involved in professional cooperation with and guidance to municipal archives bodies to help them reach the highest possible extent of the municipalities. Guidance related to digitally generated archives is becoming increasingly central.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1097	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1105	Then the Storting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1113	The President proposes that a case be dealt with on 16 November 2010 in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence – [[Case 3: The situation in Home Security and the significance of Defence]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-26.ana.ud2297e1196	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
