ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e88	The representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Gina Knutson Barstad, Geir Pollestad and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, who has been licensed, have again taken up the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e108	The representative, Nikolai Astrup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e111	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Trond Helleland, Siri A. Meling and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to set up a fund and instrument for the development of climate-friendly technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e116	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e119	On behalf of the representative Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am pleased to promote a proposal for a representative on a comprehensive review of the terms and conditions of individual enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e124	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e138	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e149	The Family and Culture Committee has discussed Prop. 14 L on proposals for amendments to the Children's Act, etc. As the rapporteur, I would like to review the Committee's position and briefly outline the majority's views on the various legislative proposals. As a representative of the Christian People's Party, I will continuously account for our minority positions, where appropriate. Initially, I would like to stress that it is very difficult to regulate such a complex and emotional matter as the place of residence and association of parents after a break in life. It is important to maintain that it is essential to provide a legal basis for ensuring the safety and stability of each child in everyday life and to ensure, as far as possible, good contact with both parents. I am pleased that a joint committee stresses that it is a goal that, despite a breakup, children can maintain and develop good contact with both their parents. The Committee further points out that the ability of parents to cooperate after a break in life is of great importance to the child’s care situation. I am also particularly pleased that an overall committee demonstrates that the best interests of the child should primarily contribute to the child's perspective, and that this is the overall consideration of the wishes and rights of each parent. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee considers that, with regard to matters of residence and association, equality between parents is only relevant when it contributes to optimising the best interests of the child. The majority further point to the need for any legislative action to be taken in these areas in the light of the best interests of the child. The government has proposed legislative changes in five areas, which are currently being addressed by the Storting. There is a ban on all forms of violence against children, the obligation to provide warnings when moving with children domestically, divided residence, the definition of normal association and consent to health care. The majority support the Government's proposal to clarify Section 30 of the Children's Act. There shall be no doubt that children shall not be subjected to any form of violence. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to introduce a six-week alert obligation. The aim is to clarify the responsibility of parents to keep each other mutually informed about decisions which must be presumed to have a major impact on the life of the child. In the case of divided residence, it is worth clarifying that it means that the parents have the same authority over the child. It often also means, but not necessarily, that the child lives equally with each parent. Today, parents may agree to a split residence, but the courts cannot judge this. The Government has proposed a right to judge it before the courts when there are particular reasons. I'm counting on the majority here to explain his vision. The Christian People's Party will vote against the amendment proposal in Section 36. I refer to the report Shared residence for children, from the Institute for Social Research, which concludes that shared residence will function poorly in those cases where parents have a high level of conflict, because shared residence requires close cooperation. High levels of conflict between parents are burdensome for children. In the cases raised in the courts, the level of conflict will normally be high, and the conditions for extensive cooperation at the best of the child from day to day will not be present. The law’s requirement that shared residence must be based on a joint decision between parents also has a positive effect on the possibility of achieving an amicable settlement through mediation. In addition, the government is proposing an extension of the so-called standard of normal association. The Committee supports this. However, the Christian People's Party is moving towards that part of the extension of the norm that includes overnight stays in the middle of the week. The community code will be used in all types of life crimes. It is used in both cases of low conflict and in cases of high conflict. Overnight stays in the middle of the week require a higher level of parental cooperation on the follow-up to kindergarten, school and activities. It will vary from case to case the degree to which such cooperation and follow-up assumptions are present. I take up the Christian People's Party proposal at this point. In order to avoid that one of the parents prevents the child from receiving the health care it needs, the Government of the Proposition proposes a change in the Patient Rights Act so that it is sufficient for one of the parents to consent to health care when health professionals consider that the child may be harmed by not receiving health care. The Committee supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e181	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has taken up the proposal he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e184	Breakup is one of the most dramatic things that can hit a child. Therefore, the Children’s Act is important in order to protect children’s interests both in terms of life crimes and in other areas. The proposals for changes to the Children’s Act presented today by the Government come as a consequence of our having a more equal parenthood, and that both parents take care of and care for the children to a far greater extent than before, and that fathers have a much more central role in family life than they had in the past. Still, it's like that in 80 pst. of the cases following a divorce, the children live with their mother. But we see that there is a development in which parents in several cases choose a shared-dwelling solution, and in those cases you choose it, it has happened through an agreement between mother and father without it being in either court or other place. We must have legislation that is as neutral as possible and that does not discriminate against one of the parents. This is why, among other things: put forward a proposal by the Government on the issue of relocation, which now introduces a six-week alert requirement if the parent wishes to move. But it also applies to consensual parents. This means that with a six-week alert, you have the opportunity to surround yourself and talk about whether it is natural for the child to still live with the resident parent – if that is the best. You have the opportunity to discuss whether it's a good solution, what is now being chosen. You also have the opportunity to ask for mediation if you can't agree, and in the worst case, if you can't agree on mediation, you have the opportunity to solve this relationship through court. What is important is that moving is a rather dramatic decision for both the child and for those of the parents who have the right to cohabit, because it can mean getting less contact with the parent, and the child gets less contact with his or her father or mother. That's why it's very important that we get this alert now, and the committee has great reason to believe that it will have a good effect. So the case's rapporteur mentioned the issue of association and that the government opens up to change the legal definition, to expand it. One aspect of which there is disagreement in the Committee is the question of extending with one overnight stay in the week. All the other parties support the Government's proposals, with the exception of the Christian People's Party. We believe that it is completely unproblematic to expand with one overnight stay this week, because we believe this is in line with the practice of very many families today, and we believe that the law thus adapts to the developments we see in society now, where fathers increasingly want to have close and close contact with their children. The other relationship on which there is disagreement within the Committee is the right of the courts to judge divided residence. The government is now opening up for the courts to have access to it. Once again, all the other parties support it, with the exception of the Christian People's Party. The Children’s Law Committee, which was set up by the Government, recommended that access to this should be open to the courts. They thought it was fundamentally objectionable to reconstruct the jurisdiction of the courts as it is today. And that is what the majority of the committee agrees with. Nevertheless, we would point out that only in exceptional cases will it be relevant for the courts to judge divided residence, because when the case comes to court, it is so intense and the conflict between mother and father is so intense that in most cases it will not be relevant to judge divided residence because the cooperation will be so poor. But there may be some reason why it would actually be best for the child to judge divided residence, and we believe that one should not exclude those cases and exclude the possibility for the courts to do so. Another aspect, which is on the side of this proposal, but which I think may have the same effect, is that one gives a signal from the legislator to society that more equal treatment is being given to parents, and we believe that when one opens the way for the court to judge divided residence, it will actually help fewer cases end up in court, because the parents feel equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e201	I want to start by reading the mandate given to the sample and on which this matter is based. The main objective of the review of the Children’s Act was to assess changes in the child’s law in a perspective where both parents are considered to be equally important for the child and where an applicant supports a social development in which both parents’ time, responsibilities, care and participation in essential aspects of the child’s life are central. The sample shall assess the concepts of residence parents and cohabiting parents in the light of a cohabited parent even after a consensual break. I think it is a little important that we bring it with us when we deal with this matter. This is an important matter, and there are a lot of feelings associated with it. It affects, in particular, children who are victims of a break-in between their parents, but it also has major consequences for the parents who are victims of a break-in. There were great expectations for the sample and its mandate, and there were many who were disappointed that the government did not go further in this matter than they have done today. I'll get back to that a little bit. We often talk about the best of children. Child's best is a term that we're talking about all the way. But I think we should also think about children's rights. The rights of children are important. All children have the right to have association with their parents, and therefore the rights of the child must be governed by the Children’s Act. Children's rights are that they have as much right to a father as they have the right to a mother. There are many children who are affected by this, and many children come into conflict because they are as happy in their mother as they are in their father. That's why it's important that we politicians, we who are going to make these rules and laws, have it in mind when we make them, and make sure that children's rights are respected. In the newspaper last week, it read under the heading «May judge children to have two homes»: ‘The new Children’s Act will allow courts to judge the place of residence of children with divorced parents. Today’s legislation is tradition-bound and favors mother, says the Workers’ Party.’ I thought yes, is it really like that now? It's not that. The reality of the case we are dealing with today is that it is only in some specific cases that the courts can judge divided residence. This government does not like parents as it should have done. Yesterday there was a woman's day, and a lot of people were out celebrating the day and talking about equality. This government is talking about equality related to maternity leave. Then Dad has to be equalized. Then he's going to take the same part in the child's growth in the first few years. But once there's a divorce in the 'happy family', Dad's not assimilated anymore. It is not a matter of intervention in relation to the government's equality policy. For the Progress Party, it is important that divided residence is the starting point of the law. In modern Norway, we have to take our father seriously and let him have the same amount to say after a breakup. Even if the government opens up a little bit, it doesn't go far enough. It is only for special reasons that the Government is in favour of the Court of Justice being able to judge the division of care. In the event of an incurrency, the comment of the Progress Party on this matter has fallen. That is why we have promoted the proposal that is on the table today. I would like to read out the comment that has fallen out: the party of progress believes that shared residence should be the starting point of the law, and that it should be housing split after a break-in unless otherwise agreed. The party also believes that shared residence is the solution that ensures the best for the child as far as possible through maximum contact with both parents. We also believe that what primarily creates conflicts after a break in life is that the equivalency of parents in society is replaced by different values after a break in life. The Progress Party believes that equality between parents will mitigate conflicts and create a much better and more stable situation for children after the breakup of life. We note that the bill is a small step in the right direction by now opening up the courts to judge the divided residence, but there must be specific grounds for judging this. It is not only a divided place of residence, but also a warning obligation for us to debate today. The government adds up to six weeks. It takes almost even longer to wait to get to the mediation office and in the courtroom to get this decided, and then it is very little use with six weeks' notice. The Progress Party will therefore support the Left's proposal to extend this alert period. Mediation offices and courts need to be strengthened, and they need to give priority to such matters in order to get this in place. Then there's one thing we also have to deal with, and it's about co-conspiracy. I have to say I'm disappointed that none of the other parties have gone into that remark or see the seriousness of this, so that there are consequences to sabotage. I'm not going to say that there are only women who sabotage, because there are also men who do. But yet it has to be a consequence. The Progress Party and the Right had a joint comment on the penal code here when it was dealt with in ours. But it makes the impression when you sit and listen to men who say that Mother can be allowed to have the main care, I will pay every penny I have to pay in child care, but let me have the right to see my children, whom I have the right to have care for. When there are no consequences when mother sabotages this, it is not useful to have legislation. That is why I hope that the government parties may be able to turn around during the debate and support the proposal that cohabitation must have consequences. Then the Progress Party has put forward a proposal to lose the right to get together if you are convicted of gross violence against your children. Minister of Justice Knut Storberget has been very high in the field of violence in close relations, and the best of children and the best of caring for them after father or mother has been convicted of a criminal act against their own children. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State, in its letter to the Committee, agrees that it is necessary to consider whether a person should not automatically lose his or her right of access if he or she is convicted of violence against his or her own child. There are many children who are afraid to go back to their father or mother after they have come out of prison. There is a lot of work for the parent who is left, and who is concerned that you have to deliver the child away the day the redemption is over. For the Advancement Party, it is the best of the child and the rights of the child that must weigh heavily in view of the fact that parents who commit violence against their children and are convicted of it can automatically lose the right of association. Instead, they apply to get the right to get back together, if it turns out that they have behaved well. There's one thing that hasn't been so much focused, and it's about violence against children. Let me say that the Advancement Party is taking a great deal of distance from all forms of violence against children, both mentally and physically. There must be no doubt about it. But the Progress Party sees the same situation as the Advocate-General has expressed in his hearing opinions that, as this bill is designed here, it may be wrong. That is why the Progress Party today is not prepared to accept that proposal, as is the case today. The Progress Party will address the proposals we have made in this matter. We would also like to support the Left's proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox I see that the Left's proposal No. 5 is almost equivalent to what the Progress Party is promoting, so we'll see what it's going to be like at the vote here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e244	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e247	This bill affects the daily well-being of very many people. Unfortunately, very many families — by and large half — experience this, namely a break in their lives. It is not an abnormal situation or a strange situation, it is a difficult situation, but a situation in which we, as legislators, have a great responsibility to find good management. For us as legislators, the main goals are clear. We must help to ensure that children in families where a break-in occurs have the best possible living conditions and have the opportunity to maintain and develop contact with both father and mother. The best of children is below all. That's the guide for us, and we're going to make sure that the laws take care of that main point. One of the most important questions in the Government’s proposal is whether or not to allow the courts to judge a divided residence. The right has previously been skeptical of such an opening. The background for this is, as has been mentioned here before, the fact that in cases where this comes up, there will be a high level of conflict, and the possibilities for the child to come into a very difficult situation are great. The second argument is that in a practical life enough, there is a need to exert some pressure on the parties in family matters to actually come up with reconciliation and find good solutions, as the families themselves are the closest to seeing what can be. When we have come to the conclusion that we will support the Government's proposals, it is because we see that general legislation makes it difficult to take care of all possible individual situations. In these cases, the court will be in a difficult position, but the court will be able to deal with the individual case in a completely different way from what we can do, and in this way we should rely on the legal system's ability to maintain the child's best and find good solutions – or at least the best possible solutions – also in these situations. The right-hand side also supports the correction of the community norm so that it covers one more night a week. Like the Government, we believe that this is a correction that, based on what most of today's parents would want, is a natural development. The right also supports the ban on all forms of violence against children. We believe such a rule is a sign of health and a proper signal in a democratic and non-violent society. All forms of violence rekindle violence and brutality. Unfortunately, we live in a time and in a society where violence is increasing, and all the distance from this is in the Right's view a good thing. The main conclusion for us is that we support the proposals presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e266	This is one of the most difficult things we make laws about. Since this bill came out for consultation, I have got my e-mail inbox full of personal stories, both from children with parents who have left each other, and from the parents themselves. The stories are many, they're strong, and they touch thousands of different imaginable and unimaginable issues. There are many who have brought out the big words before me, but I think it is important that we understand that what we are dealing with now is about some of the most difficult times and the most difficult decisions in human life. That's what makes it so challenging. Like the chairman of the committee, Gunn Karin Gjul, I'm glad that parents are going to be more equal, like the rest of society. This must be part of the picture when we discuss this. It shall be an objective that as many children as possible should be able to have good contact with both their parents even after a break in life, while ensuring that children do not end up in a war zone between their parents. Children shall never be used as a means of power against a former partner or spouse. To live in a home where there's bad talk about the other, or the association is used as a means to anyone else, borders on child abuse. Given both the need for children to live in a home without conflict and the need for children to know both their parents, I am pleased that a joint committee is in favour of a shared residence. It is important to point out that this can only be judged if it is in the best interests of the child. I believe that it would normally be so – it has been mentioned before – that once a case has reached the point of law, the level of conflict will be so high that divided residence will not work best. However, we do not want to exclude cases where it may be possible for it to function best, and therefore the courts must have the opportunity to judge this. I said, "Best of the child." Like Solveig Horne, I believe it is a term that is repeated and used so much that it can sometimes sound like a flake. But I still think it is important to make it clear that it is precisely the best of children, children's rights, children's legal certainty, that should be at the centre when we discuss the Children's Act. It should be at the centre of our assessment of parental responsibility, residence, association and association after a breakup. This law is about children's rights, not about parents' rights. When we're into children's rights, I'll mention one of the most important things we can possibly use this law for, and that's ensuring children's legal certainty against violence. Five years ago, the Supreme Court passed a judgment that several thought was unclear in relation to this. Among other things, the Children's Ombudsman was out saying that there was a need for children to have the same protection against violence that adults have. That is why I am pleased that we are changing this law to strengthen the legal certainty of children, and that the Children's Ombudsman supports the amendments. The law does not ensure protection alone, but gives clear signals to all parents about what are acceptable forms of education in Norway. It's not allowed to beat children, it's not allowed to slap children, it's not allowed to lock children in a room, it's not allowed to threaten children to be abandoned or injured, nor is it allowed to demean and humiliate children. That is the most important thing we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e283	It is a great responsibility to participate in the drafting of laws to protect the child’s best interests. There are issues where it can be difficult to see what is just the best of the child. More and more children are affected by the breakup of their parents' lives, and we know that breakups can also be a very great impression for the children and very difficult to get through. Then it is important that we be able to design laws that are designed to protect children's rights here. The ability of parents to cooperate will be crucial for the success of children. Good parental cooperation is important for children to avoid living in long-term conflicts between their parents. The best interests of the child shall be taken into account; they are the overall rights and wishes of parents, and it is important that this perspective is taken into account in all matters. In situations where there should be doubt, it is important that the child's perspective is always to be considered. It is proposed here to extend the community definition to a one-night stay per week, to extend the afternoon’s stay by one night. It's in line with what a lot of people already practice today. It is important, however, even with this expansion to assume that it is always at the best of the child, and that each family must see what is right for its children, and find companionship solutions in line with this. It is also proposed that, if there are particular reasons for this, the courts should have greater access to the place of residence. In most situations, it may be – as many have experienced – that it is not best for the child to come up with this solution, but for some children it may be possible if certain assumptions are present. Therefore, it is important that this is also given the opportunity, so that the courts can in any case judge and do what they think is best for the child. Children must be able to grow up without being subjected to any form of violence. All forms of child rearing violence are unacceptable. There must be no doubt about the legal situation in relation to the non-violence of children. It is also proposed to clarify that all forms of violence against children are prohibited, even if it should happen as part of child rearing. It is also clarified that frightening or abusive behaviour against children is prohibited. A ban on all forms of violence can also be preventive, precisely because some minor abuses and a number of excuses today as part of child rearing can lead to more serious forms of violence and abuse. It is now important that the integrity of children be protected at least as well as that of adults today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e294	Firstly, I would like to repeat what SV's representative said here today, that perhaps one of the most important things we are adopting today is coming as a result of Left Document No. Eight proposals for finally establishing that violence against children is unacceptable and punishable. That's what I think is an important milestone from Stortinget's side, and I think it's something to mark. Nor does it happen for mission purposes – which have actually been allowed until now – do I think it is important to establish. So I want to spend a little bit of time on the suggestions that the left has made. When matters of the kind we're talking about here come to justice, today we've had a norm that's made up for someone to win. When you go into court, someone has to win and someone has to lose. And most often when you put the norm that it should be a winner and a loser, to the bottom, it's the child that becomes the only loser. When you don't agree on the distribution of care, it's usually because both parents want to provide care. Therefore, we believe that the law should not imply that you should end up with a winner and a loser, but that the law should assume that both parents should have a relationship. The sample actually discusses a community obligation. It is not proposed, and the Left does not propose it today either, but we think it is an interesting approach that parents should in fact not only have a right to be with their children, but that they should also have an obligation to be with their children. Being present both as a mother and as a father in a child's life is such an important right for the child that it should actually be a duty for the parents. That is why we tabled this proposal today. It was not in the committee, so we are happy if the Progress Party supports it. This applies both to proposal No. 5 and proposal No. 6, where we believe that the shared care should be at the bottom of the court's ability to assess it. Proposal No. 4 goes on the alert, as we think it's very positive that the government has introduced. It could also lower the level of conflict. But we want a little longer alert time, for two reasons: first, there is a mediation in the alert obligation. Many who want to go to mediation know that it takes a long time. It takes a long time at all to get an hour for mediation. That's why we think it should be a longer time warning. The second is that the other party might want to move with. If, for example: Dad and children find out that they are going to move, it must be possible for their mother to move after. The usual period of notice in Norway today is three months, or 12 weeks. Therefore, we believe that this would be a logical warning time to give the other party the opportunity to move with, if you want to move with a child and their ex-partner. Then to the other proposals that are available. The left does not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party nor does it support any proposal. 1, from the Progress Party, because we find that it's taken care of in other ways. But we strongly support proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. This has also taken up a number of times. So I'd be allowed to philosophize a little over the discussion that was in the sample in the case of cohabitation, because then they discussed bringing up children with cohabitation. I think it is really quite interesting that in the context of a child law we can discuss bringing up children with coercion – using coercion against children who, of course, have not done anything wrong, because here are parents doing something wrong – while we have to have a basis in the penal code to use coercion against adults. I believe that we could have been allowed to use coercion against adults also in the Children's Act, because coercion is evil against children, and it makes it difficult to exercise the role of both parents. We therefore believe that there should be no coercion against children when children have not done anything wrong, but we believe that it should be an opening to use coercion against adults. That doesn't mean you're arresting someone, but that means, for example, that you can hold someone back from work because that day someone else is going to pick up at the kindergarten. I believe that such a home should be in Norwegian law, because the injustice that occurs in very many families today is very great.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e310	About 20,000 children experience a yearly separation of parents, and for most children this is a good thing, although the break between parents can be a great impression for some children. We know from research that when the parents get to cooperate, the children do well after a breakup. Some of the worst children experience, however, being exposed to excruciating conflicts between the two people to whom the child is closest. That's why I want to make the best possible arrangements for good parental cooperation, and that's a major challenge for us. Many of the proposals under consideration today have been endorsed by the Stortinget through the examination of St.meld. No 8 for 2008-2009, on men, roles and gender equality, and I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposals and that we have such a broad consensus on what I think are important measures for the best of children and children's rights. The legislation must therefore facilitate the best possible contact between children and both parents after a break in life. However, there shall be no doubt that if there is a difference between the child’s consideration and the consideration of the greatest possible overall parent’s contact, the child’s needs shall come first. I am pleased that the majority in the committee adheres to that principle. The Storting has previously been concerned with the issue of various forms of violence against children, and has asked the Government for a bill. For this reason, the Government proposes clarification in the Children’s Act that children should not be subjected to any form of violence, nor should they facilitate their education. In addition, it is clarified that children should also not be subjected to daunting or abusive behaviour or any other negligent behaviour. With such a clarification of the legal situation, we send out a very clear signal to all parents about what are acceptable recruitment methods in Norway and what is not. I believe that this may have an important preventive effect, in addition to the fact that it is an important principle signal to send from this room. I therefore welcome the broad support and am disappointed that the support is not unanimous. Of course, a change in the law is not sufficient to prevent violence against children. The government will continue to work with other measures as well. An alarm phone is e.g. open to children who will tell about violence, abuse and care failure, and we will develop the education of pre-school teachers and teachers to enhance the competence of those who see the children most. From the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and the Ministry of Inclusion, we have created a guide on cooperation between kindergarten and child protection to help child care workers follow up their concerns about a child. Children shall be provided with early assistance, and the nursery workers are in a unique situation as regards the possibility of seeing how a child is doing and of reporting if they are concerned. Parental guidance is also an important measure, including: care value may be taken up. I am pleased that the Committee supports an alert obligation before moving to apply to both parents – both the residence parent and the cohabiting parent. It will give parents time and opportunity to discuss and assess what will be the best care solution for the child in the future, before moving. I note that the majority of the committee agrees that the courts should have a narrower access to judge the divided residence against the will of one parent or both parents. The minority in the Committee – Christian People’s Party – believes that the prerequisites for necessary cooperation for the best interests of the child will not be present once the case has been brought to justice, because the level of conflict in these cases must be assumed to be high. I basically agree with that, but like the majority in the committee, I think there may be cases where it is best for the child to have a shared residence. But I would like to make it clear that there must be – and will be – a narrow rule of exception, and there must be specific reasons for the court to judge divided residence. It's a good example that despite difficult balances, not least in relation to what I'm very concerned about, namely a more equal parenthood and the recognition of men as first-class caregivers, nevertheless has to have a very clear starting point on what's best for the child in these questions. And then it's a special goal to avoid putting children in situations with a very high level of conflict. Nor will it be relevant to judge the divided residence of children under the age of seven, since children of that age group are believed to be more vulnerable and need more stability. I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with this. I also note that the majority of the Committee agrees that the definition of ordinary rights of access to the child law is being maintained, but is being extended. Well, the definition is not to be understood as a norm. The starting point is that parents themselves agree to the extent of association based on what they think is best for their children. However, we are sending a clear signal that is both a modernisation in order to show that it is a strong desire for association with both parents, and also an adaptation to the practice that very many parents already have for association. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party point out that in some cases where father or mother are convicted of abuse of their own children, the right of association and parental responsibility are retained. I notice that the members of the Progress Party believe that the law needs to be amended, so that father or mother is deprived of the right to co-occurrence, parental responsibility and the right of residence when the father/mother is convicted of violating their own children. I want to use the opportunity to refer to the letter I sent to the committee, because there I write that I agree that it may be important to change the law, so that it provides better protection for the children. I see very clearly the problem that is being addressed here, and I am, like the members concerned, concerned about the signals that have come through the issues that have recently been in the media. I think we should go into it thoroughly. I would therefore like to carry out an investigation with a view to drawing up a proposal for a consultation note on the matter with a view to amending the law. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee sees the need for the legislative changes proposed here and supports the proposal. This will include, inter alia: another thing that has not been discussed today is that a parent who has committed an assault on his or her child should not be able to prevent the child from being examined or given psychological assistance. In sum, I believe that the Storting is taking some important steps today in terms of what must be our absolute guiding principle in these matters, namely that we should strengthen the rights of children, and that the best interests of children should be at the heart of the child law, and also of all the difficult issues, of our society and of the individual family, arising from a break in life, and that we are not least sending a very clear signal of what are the rights of children and what is best for children as regards methods of education, and that all forms of violence against children are totally unacceptable in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e349	There are several things I could have asked the Council of State about here, but I'm going to ask him about cohabitation. Many parents and children experience an uplifting daily life when sabotage of one’s company occurs. So someone says criminal threats can seem very conflict-making. But it may as often be conflict-relieving when one party is aware that sabotaging one’s association can have consequences. The Progress Party believes that the proposal lacks a solution to one of the main problems of today's family policy, namely how to deal with co-operation. I wonder if the Government has just closed its eyes to the big problem as they do not want to join in and support the proposal where we ask for concrete action to be put forward against cohabitation. My question is: does the Council of State not see that this is a major problem for the parties involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e360	Yes, I can see that. But it's not always the way to go about the most drastic instruments is the only way to recognise a problem. Unfortunately, it is a little too often the way the Progress Party operates politics. I am concerned that we are looking at the instruments that work for the children. And once again, we have to be strict in principle and clear that it is the best thing for the child to be the continuous guide. I think, with all due respect, that the Progress Party is too often unable to follow up. I'm afraid that, for example, enforcement will be measures that increase the level of conflict and make it more difficult for children in everyday life. We already have clear instruments for coercion and new court proceedings in cases where coercive decisions are not being implemented, and we need to put more effort into mediation and assistance, among other things. through the revision of the mediation institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e367	The question relates to the right of the courts to determine the place of residence of a divided person. Now it's clearly underlined how sloppy the access you're giving today is. At the same time, we must remember that this matter has a history. Strong forces, based on different interests — both women’s and men’s policy — have wanted to share residence as a general rule. Therefore, it is easy for us others to interpret this as a political compromise more than a principle position on the best of the child. I would like to refer to the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate's Hearing Opinion, which says: ‘Distinguishing which parents will clearly be able to comply with the judgment and start constructive cooperation at the best of the child, and who will not be able to do so, appears to the Directorate as virtually impossible for the courts. It is assumed that more children will suffer and have it strenuously in the phase after such a judgment has been given.’ The question is, where is the Child, Youth and Family Directorate wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e379	What has emerged in the consultation round is a clear resistance to condemning a fixed divided residence if there is a very high level of conflict. It will very often be in these kinds of cases. That's why, as I said, this is a narrower access, where the child's best consideration and the assessment of high conflict and the appropriateness of such a scheme are to be based. That is what our proposal is very clear on. The Committee's attitude is very clear on that. But I believe that we cannot rule out that there are matters where it might be appropriate and at the best for the child to judge such a system. Therefore, we do not want to deter the jurisdiction of the courts to make such a decision where it is for the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e384	What I'm asking is a warning. I'd like to boast to the Government that they have followed up the proposal of the sample. But we have another proposal on alert time. My question to the Council of State is really two-part. Firstly, can he now guarantee that anyone who wants to have mediation before moving will get it within the time limit laid down in the law now? Question no. 2: Can the Council of State, after a time, revise the deadline if he sees it becoming too short and that it can create conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e391	This change we are doing just to ensure that there is time and opportunity to consider and discuss what will be the best care solution for the child before moving. It is clear that this is an assessment based on an attempt to find what is a reasonable balance between the time required to find such a solution and what is practicable and reasonable in relation to the parent who is to move, perhaps because of changed job conditions and other things. It is clear that it is important that we ensure that there is capacity for example. to deal with this kind of issue in the mediation apparatus. It is a matter that we now have for evaluation, and that the Government will look forward to. Then, of course, with this proposal, as with other proposals, we have to constantly assess whether what we are doing now is the right thing in relation to the deadline. I think so, and I'll take that as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e400	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e403	It's an important matter we have to deal with. Children need a harmonious upbringing in the family, regardless of the situation of their mother and father. But there is a great distance between the NoU and the bill that is now promoted by the Government. The committee was mandated to look at changes in the provisions of the Children’s Act on parental responsibility, permanent residence and association where both parents are considered equally important for the child even after the breakup. What is the best of the child? What are the child's rights? What is the problem, and what is it possible to improve? I feel that the government has not fully answered these important questions. I believe it is in the best interests of the child whether the child has good contact with both parents, in the sign of equality. It should also be a matter of course, and it's a matter of course for many of us. But as the council said in the reply to Solvency Horne, we're going to try to get it done, but we're going to do it in the form of dialogue. I don't think that's enough. It is important to focus on the rights of the child when discussing the best interests of the child. All children have the right to have association with their parents, and the rights of the child must be a guide to the whole of the child’s law. All forms of physical and mental violence against children are not permitted. It is clarified in the matter. I would like to make it clear that there should be no doubt that physical violence against children is not permitted in Norway, and that is the position of the Progress Party. But I would like to point out that too strict a demarcation of the criminal area could mean a purely formal criminalisation of acts that are hardly harmful and that in practice will never be enforced. There are no children earned standing. In reality, this may weaken respect for punishment in this area, to the detriment of the important work to combat child abuse and other harmful violence against children. As a parent, you have experienced several situations with your little boys, where you have actually had physical contact in the form that you take in your arm when your children fail in front of the candy bar in the shops. That's not what we're after. I feel that this obviously is not an act that it is natural to consider as a crime. Such an example shows just that physical contact with child rearing requires an assessment that may differ from similar contact between adults. Therefore, I am skeptical about the design of this bill, it must not work against its purpose. Moving is a big change in children's lives. It is important that both parents have the power to assess the different aspects of the case and the consequences of the transfer. There may be good reasons for moving, and sometimes it's also absolutely necessary. But moving is a big change in a child's life, and it has to be done in a gentle way for the child. Many parents and children experience an uplifting daily life when sabotage of community law occurs. Under the law in force, those who neglect the care of a child with whom the child lives may be punished, but the offender does not protect parents with shared care, nor does he protect those who enjoy the right to social security. There should also be criminalisation of neglecting children's association, unless it becomes an unfair discrimination, and neither is the child served by it. I see that there can be a conflict with a criminal threat to the avoidance of care. However, punishment can equally often be counterproductive, as it gives parties greater motivation to agree to stick to fixed arrangements. So this should be considered as an important input into the proposal. Then I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e426	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e432	I take the floor for a few additional comments on the speeches that have been held in the debate. I would also like to underline first that the debate shows that there is agreement on very many important matters, in a very complex area, but which is all the more important for very many children and families in this country. I am also pleased that the Council of State makes it clear that when there is a contradiction between the child's safety and stability and the desire for contact with both parents, the child's needs must go ahead. So, when you argue for divided residence as a general rule, it's about the child's right to good contact with both parents. Yes, the child’s right to and the need for contact with both parents is important. But if this is to be measured and weighed in days and hours between adults, and it is to be carried so far that the children lose the opportunity of one home, one bed and one room, for those who need it, we have gone too far. For children are different, families are different, and for many children it will be that it is not a good starting point for security and stability in everyday life to have to commute between two different homes. It may work well for some, but there will also be many cases where the need for stability, security and firm framework is much greater. Then I will also supplement what I have said about the right of the courts to judge divided residence. When reference is made to the fact that there are ‘special reasons’ that encroach on this understanding, this is made a very ‘closer access’. I'm glad. But we have to see this in the light of a campaign of several strong interests over many years in order to get to a divided residence as a general rule, and when you make such a theoretical opening, which even the directorate says it seems almost impossible for the courts to assess, it is easy to suspect that this has arisen as a sort of political compromise where the principle of the child's best has not come first. It bothers me. I am also waiting for a pressure to expand this home as this is practised, and I hope that the Council of State and the majority of the population will stand firm on their tight frames even when practice is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e441	I would just like to briefly explain that the Right will support proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, on co-conspiracy bottling. It's an important theme that it's important to follow up, and that hits very hard in the worst cases where children become a means of power between former partners. There's a lot of alarming feedback in this field, and I hope the government will take it up and take some grips that might help solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e446	The President will then draw attention to the fact that the proposal now referred to by the representative Thommess will be discussed at a later meeting, and that proposal will not be contested today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e449	I would first like to thank the Right, who also sees this issue and agrees with and supports that proposal when it comes to consideration. Then I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State clearly sees the problem here, that parents who have subjected their children to violence should automatically lose the right of association. If we can't get support for that proposal, maybe a few people can turn it into a transmission proposal, but at least I hope it's a big deal that sees the issue, and that will look at that issue. But then I can't let this debate go without plucking away a little bit from the Council of State even in terms of the equality policy of this party. Because when it says here that divided residence is only to be judged by the courts, for special reasons, it is not far enough in terms of equality. However, when the Council of State talks about how important recognition of the man and shared parental responsibility is, it is not what they vote for today. I want to take an example: I'm sure there are a lot of men today walking around waiting for them to become fathers in a few months. They are happy to take out maternity leave and maternity leave, and to be at home with their children. But let's say that cohabitation, or marriage, doesn't go so well, and there's a conflict situation that makes them unable to agree on the care of the little child. Who, then, is the loser? Yes, it's Dad. I don't understand that today's government in its anguish of equality in this society does not see that there is a father who is being hit, and not just a father, but that it is the child's rights that are being affected, because the child loses the same right to see his father. Then I'm surprised at the Christian People's Party. Had even the life that the Christian People's Party imagined had been so good that everyone lived happily in their homes, and that everyone had one bed and one home – but unfortunately it's not like that. You can agree that you have to put in place measures that make people maybe not break up so often, but that's another thing. The Christian People's Party cannot see that when a child can stay at his mother's or father's every other weekend, they can also do this within a week. I do not understand that the Christian People's Party does not see that this also affects the child. It is amazing that the Christian People's Party, when it becomes a divorce, does not see that the child has equal rights to his father as to his mother, and that they cannot go in for shared care. It is the Christian People's Party which is at least as equal in this matter as we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e458	I think that this debate and the criticism that the Progress Party is promoting against the Government – on non-equality – is a little strange, because it is such that equality work must start on the day the child is born, and not on the day it is actually a break in life. What's the problem with the Progress Party is that they don't realize that equality actually starts at the child's birth. They do not want to be involved at all in measures that contribute to greater care for their children at the time of their birth and help us to obtain papacy. These two things are related. If we're to make sure that dad gets an equal role after a break in life, the families have to be equal in principle. Most divorce cases don't end up in court, they end up with parents agreeing. We see that the outcome of this is that 80 pst. of the children living with their mother after a break in life, and that is a clear sign that we still have a long way to go when it comes to gender equality at home – before it's all about a break in life. So it's just a little thing I have to clarify. I may have misunderstood the representative Solvency Horne in her previous post. It concerns proposal No. 1, where the Progress Party asks the Government to draw up a proposal for the necessary legislative amendment to provide better protection for children who are victims of parental abuse. That proposal was very positive in the answer he gave to the committee in relation to the questions we sent about. The Council of State also stated that he would launch an investigation with a view to drawing up a proposal for a consultation note on the matter with a view to amending the law. I just wonder if I can interpret it as meaning that the representative Horne will turn this proposal into a transmission proposal, because it shows so much goodwill on the part of the Council of State on this issue that we do not want this proposal to be defeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e467	When I'm invited to dance by the representative Horne in that way, I can't say no. I just have to answer very briefly. Like Gunn Karin Gjul just said, I understand that the representative Horne has problems understanding, is how we can both be very concerned about equality for men, and at the same time not go in for a more open access to condemning divided residence. The problem with the representative Horne's reasoning is that the idea of equality at the Progress Party only occurs at the moment of a breakup. But then it's too late, right? What the rest of us are trying to do, and I feel that we have received support from all of this room, except from the Progress Party today, is that when you get into that situation, it's the best of the child that has to apply, and nothing else. But then I agree that it is very desirable that in the future it becomes so that it will be much more frequent than today at the best of the child that it is father who gets care, or that you share care. And to do that, we need to have equality when the child is born. A more like-minded parenting is the key to getting to what the representative Horne wants. All the experience we have, both from Norway and from other countries, is that if we manage to expand the paper industry in particular, this leads to two things: that fathers are more with their children when they are very young, and that they reproduce a different pattern of care up in the growth of children – we get more like-minded families. This leads to fewer life breaks, which will save more children to get into the situation we are discussing here, and that more men will be in the situation that it is natural, when they are stronger in a breakup, to demand responsibility for the children – and that it will be obvious that it is for the best of their children that they get it. That's why our sovereign most important tool to get to this, the feather quota. More parental quota is the most important thing we can do to ensure that more men get close contact and care for their children in the event of a breakup, to prevent a break in their lives and to ensure that the best interests of the child are, in as many cases as possible, assimilated and shared parenthood. Then it's the big mystery that the party that is so very much for men's rights and equality in the event of a break in life is at least for men's rights when the children are born, and wants to abolish the father's quota. I think that's a mystery.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e478	The representative Horne has asked several representatives up to dance at the same time, so I was not able to join them either. This could be really nice! It is important to note that this debate is not about the recognition of whether there is actually a break in life; the whole debate, the whole proposition, the whole thing is about how we deal with it, and how we make a law that is at the best of the child when it has actually happened. And I'm holding on to what I said in my previous post that kids are different. For some young people, moving between two homes, for example, depending on the position, development, physical and mental health of each young person, can work well — depending on the family situation. every two weeks, as some do. Other kids have a much greater need for security, stability, and a solid framework of everyday life, which means that you actually have to have one fixed dwelling, one fixed kitchen table, one fixed set of rules, one bed and one room to have the stability that each child needs. Therefore, it is also wrong to make the discussion of shared residence as a general rule a discussion of parental equality and the child’s right to equal contact with both parents – as the only criterion. The entire Committee has been consulted on a note initially in the setting where it is said that it is the best of the child to be superior to the wishes and rights of adults and parents in this context. That is also the point made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In conclusion, I would like to say that when it comes to cohabitation, it is a very important topic. I support the intention of the Progress Party with the proposal. At the same time, I recognise that this is a very complicated issue. I think maybe the wording is a little bit cash and does not fully capture the complexity of the issue. I support the intention of the proposal, but will not vote for it, just saying that I assume that the Council of State is continuing to work on these demanding issues in order to find, if possible, measures that can reduce the problems of cohabitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e489	The representative Horne has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e492	I'll try to finish this dance! Just the father's allowance and maternity leave, I think we're going to have ample opportunity to discuss this spring. The propulsion party has faith in the family, and we have faith in equality within the family in the sense that the small family itself will be allowed to choose how it will dispose of the weeks of maternity leave. On the other hand, the government’s idea of equality ends with a break in life. We have talked a lot about the «best of the child» today, but the best of the child can be interpreted. Therefore, it is so important that we change it to ‘the child’s rights’, because the child’s rights are more firm than the child’s best.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e517	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e526	This is a matter that has created a lot of commitment among many, and that's not so strange. The right to freedom of belief and the right to protection against discrimination are both fundamental human rights. Freedom of faith implies a right, both as an individual and as a religious community, to exercise their faith in line with the doctrine of the faith society. At the same time, protection against discrimination is another fundamental right. Individuals are entitled to equal treatment and not discrimination on grounds of sex, race, ethnicity, religion, age, sexual orientation and function. Then it is necessary to grant both of these rights. But since they can conflict with each other, we have to find a good balance. The majority of the Committee considers that the draft law meets the needs of religious communities for a core of freedom of religion and autonomy through continued freedom of exception from an absolute prohibition of discrimination. Today, there are, in particular, rules in the Equality Act and the Labour Environment Act that regulate access to discrimination between women and homosexuals by religious communities. It is proposed to abolish the specific access of religious communities to discrimination based on homophilic forms of life. At the same time, it is important to maintain a certain freedom of exception for religious communities to discriminate on grounds of sexual orientation or sex. The general rule of procedure is sufficient in relation to access which religious communities should have in order to discriminate against applicants for sexual orientation. It means that discrimination must be factual, necessary and proportionate in view of the discrimination suffered. It in turn reinforces the requirements for justification for the discrimination of religious communities. It is desirable to make as clear a provision as possible in this area, and the majority therefore support the draft law repealing the provisions on the freedom of exemption for religious communities, as it provides a vague indication of the positions covered by this derogation. The majority support the view that discrimination against women should be seen in the context of the proposed access to discrimination due to the homofil form of life. The majority support the Government's proposal to amend Section 2 of the Gender Equality Act, which means removing the reference to «with the exception of the internal conditions of religious communities» so that the law will apply in all areas of society. In addition to proposals for changes to the Labour Environment Act and the Gender Equality Act, it is proposed to strengthen the protection of pregnant women. It is proposed to legislate a ban on asking about pregnancy, adoption and family planning in an employment process. This will help to strengthen the already legal protection of discrimination, and it was supported by an overall committee, which I think is very positive. Although this information cannot be emphasised today, it is natural that we now have a ban on asking for it. These are demanding issues where it is important to strike a good balance between different rights we have in society. I believe that in this case we have found a good balance between different fundamental human rights. Otherwise, the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for amendments to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e541	Following the entry into force of the Joint Marriage Law a year and a half ago, the specific access of the Labour Environment Act to discriminate against homosexuals in the employment of religious communities remained the only area of Norwegian legislation that allowed discrimination against homosexuals. Already in the Soria Moria I agreement, government parties concluded that it was necessary to rectify this by investigating the non-compliance with the Equality Act and the Working Environment Act. The Graver Committee was set up in June 2007 and, in its first interim inquiry, the sample concluded that both the prohibition of discrimination and the freedom of religion in international human rights conventions must be taken into account in the design of the Norwegian law. The committee stated that discrimination must be justified by the religious teachings of religious communities. The employment of religious leaders — priests, teachers in the religious community — lies at the heart of the provision. On the other hand, the selection was more uncertain as to whether other positions in businesses run by religious faith communities could be protected by religious freedom. The proposal promoted by the Government found a balance between the two human rights which clearly conflict with each other, namely the protection of discrimination and freedom of religion. The government’s proposal means that the special exemption for religious faith communities is abolished. Recruitment requirements for employment in jobs with duties related to the exercise of faith or religious activity are instead covered by the general rule of procedure in the first paragraph of Section 13-3 of the Working Environment Act. Discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation must be religiously justified and necessary from the point of view of the religious community or the religious teachings of the enterprise. The employment of religious teachers, priests and teachers in religious communities is at the heart of the provision. But the Government also proposes a legal framework that provides conditions for discrimination to be met in matters relating to other types of positions that have a religious function in religious communities and their activities. For example, there will be posts in kindergartens and schools where workers participate in religious education. The legislation we have today opens up a general access for religious communities to discriminate against homosexuals. It violates the provisions on discrimination in international human rights law, and it was also pointed out very clearly by the Graver Committee. The proposed text of the law therefore restricts access to discrimination and does not allow for more discrimination than is necessary in the interests of the autonomy of the religious community as regards the content of its religious teachings. Another problem with today’s legislation is that it is vague in wording, and the scope of the paragraph is also very much debated. I therefore find it quite strange that the opposition will keep a law that is so unclear, and in many ways so debated, in relation to the interpretation. But I understand why the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party will give religious communities the freedom to discriminate against homosexuals. What I do not understand, on the other hand, is why the Right supports the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter. The right has previously appeared to be a hot defender of the gay people's rights, but now it unfortunately looks as if the gay people in the Right have lost in relation to the more religious forces there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e558	In particular, changes in the Working Environment Act have been the focus of this matter, and with good reason. The proposal for amendments here is a clear restriction on religious freedom, as the Progress Party sees it at least. The changes will reduce the ability of religious communities and institutions to operate according to their own values. In fact, I'm going to say that the Government does its own interpretations, or has its own understanding of what is religion, and what religion means to people – and to schools and religious communities. The religious communities have had special exceptions to employment issues – situations and issues that have been important for the freedom of religion of the religious communities/organisations. In its eagerness to equate and make everyone as equal as possible and in its eagerness for state control, the Government is now inculcating these exceptions and thus hindering the freedom and freedom of religion of the religious communities. In almost all countries around the world, at least those we want to compare with, religious freedom is strong. Even though the government is trying everything it can intensify it, they admit that one has to have certain exceptions. Now they're going to tighten up further on these exceptions. This conflicts with freedom of religion. Today's bill is such an intensification and in such a direction that the Progress Party will not support this. The right to freedom of belief is a fundamental human right. Freedom of faith implies a right both for individuals and for religious communities to exercise their faith in line with the doctrine of the faith society. That's what the government is rocking in this bill. So many people might say that the protection of discrimination is equally fundamental. The government says that one must respect both permissions. But since the rights may conflict with each other, one has to find a balance. The balance is tangled between freedom of religion and the protection of discrimination. I would say that the government's tilt has tilted in the wrong direction and is no longer in balance. Freedom of faith, as the Party of Advancement sees it, is going to be violated, and this has consequences for the religious communities. The government’s proposals will provide for a significant tightening of the ability of religious communities to actually organise their activities in accordance with their own convictions. One will get fuzzy and little practical manageable conditions. In particular, this will have consequences for schools or other institutions which provide a wide range of occupational groups. Yes, the freedom of employment here must be seen in the context of the fact that religious communities themselves must be allowed to determine their internal lives. Troll-based establishments must and must be able to define what is best for them without interference from the State. Schools, boarding schools, employees — perhaps laundry workers, office staff or night shifts, etc. – are, in fact, important for the individual religious community. Individual schools will make slightly different demands on the positions. The basics of each activity and the content of the positions are defined by the enterprise itself, without interference from us politicians. Those who run free schools or colleges don't do this to get as close as possible to the public school. This is also about parents' right to choose education for their children according to their own religious or philosophical beliefs. The progress party is afraid that the substantive requirement that the government is now putting up with is so unclear that we are going to have more cases in the courts in the future. Is this what we want? The government parties are very much talking about tolerance and diversity. This law will lead to more uniformity and less diversity, and the Government will then, with such a policy, go in the wrong direction, as the Progress Party sees it. We are seeing again that the Government's eagerness in such matters is at the expense of religious freedom. Finally, for the Progress Party, this has been a perfectly clear case to vote against. But I have to say that I was about to put the coffee in my throat when I discovered that the Christian People's Party in the media appeared a little vague and would negotiate with the Government in this matter. If there was one thing I knew the government wasn't going to four in, it was probably just this one. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party discovered it in the last hour. As the legislative power of the State, the Stortinget owes it to protect fundamental human rights such as freedom of belief and freedom of organisation. The Progress Party believes that today's legislative proposals weaken these rights and cannot help supporting these intrusions into the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e590	Today we are really discussing two different themes. One is related to the position of women, and the other is linked to the reservations that religious organisations have been able to make with regard to gay life/work. With regard to the question of women's position, the Right-wing Government supports the proposal. We believe that in a practical way it will be possible to deal with this in a good way, and that is also evident from the hearing bodies, where this is not seen as a major problem among the religious organizations either. When it comes to the question of amending Section 13-3 of the Working Environment Act with regard to homofiles, we look at it a little differently. To the right, we want a social development in which there is no discrimination on the basis of leghold traps. The issues regularly come up in different ways, and I think the Right has a rather consistent approach to this compared to building up under a development that shows that gay life is equivalent. I don't think the representative Gjul needs to worry about that. However, the right has had an equally consistent view that this issue needs to be weighed against the integrity and space that religious freedom has to offer in our society. We also had that in the matter of marriage law, where the Right was quite clear that we did not want to impose specific obligations on the Norwegian Church in that context. Many religious organizations and institutions today feel the pressure of majority attitudes in our society. The right believes that respect for freedom of faith means that we also give religiously-thought - out businesses in our country a reasonable space for the daily exercise of faith. Today, this limit is defined by quite simple legal boundaries related to an institution or organisation, defined as a legal person. Discrimination The Government provides, where not the legal framework of the institution, but the function of the individual shall be subject to assessment, provides a small manageable starting point and a result it may be difficult to deal with in certain cases. The element of religious thought is not linked to some positions but to the whole environment of the institution. This Community approach is a natural part of and a prerequisite for the preservation of the room of faith. Here I think the government shows little understanding of what this room contains, and what this room necessarily has to be about. This debate meets, as it progresses, the perspective of human rights in relation to freedom of belief in a way that I think we should be aware of. It is not that we can defuse the religious organizations with a little room for faith and thus believe that religious freedom is actually preserved. In a modern, tolerant society, which we all want the Norwegian society to be, there has to be a certain room to think differently, even though they represent positions the majority have difficulties in accepting. Against this background, the Right does not choose to support the Government's legislative amendments regarding the Working Environment Act § 13-3, third paragraph. We believe that if you think you're exposed to intolerance, it might be a good way to meet it just with tolerance. Tolerance cultivates tolerance in its turn, and then we must be able to live with respect for each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e603	Today, we need to strengthen the protection of discrimination in Norwegian law. Last week I was at the UN Women's Convention Meeting in New York. Norway is noted as a country with a high level of equality and relatively low levels of discrimination. The questions we were asked were: How do we get it? Does everyone in Norway agree with this? The representative Thommessen said that everyone wants Norway to be a tolerant country. But let it be clear: equality has not come true of a mountain. Especially with the Norwegian model, we have been willing to use the law to protect, among other things. women and sexual minorities against discrimination. Sometimes this has been a success story, but it has never been uncontroversial. Some in Norway have shown political will to combat discrimination. In the notes, government parties become, among other things, accused of narrowing religious freedom in Norway. I want to go into this criticism a little bit to say that the right to exercise one's own religion is a human right, but it's also the right to protection against discrimination. Religious communities provide frameworks and meeting places to exercise faith, but they are also employers. In SV we think it is reasonable that they should have the same responsibility as other employers in Norway. Despite years of struggle and progress in homophobia, people in Norway still experience discrimination. We know that the suicide rates among young homophiles are higher than for heterophiles. We know that young homosexuals are subjected to hatred, and that they experience harassment and lack of respect for their sexuality. Combating this discrimination is high on our agenda. Despite years of struggle and progress in women’s movement, women in Norway still experience discrimination. We know that women during job interviews experience being asked if they are thinking about having children. We know that if they answer yes to this question, they feel that they are being overlooked. That is why we are proposing today to adopt a ban on asking about pregnancy. For a long time it has been established that pregnancy should not be given priority when it comes to employment, but figures from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman show that pregnant women need additional protection. That is why I am proud to join in imposing a ban on questions today. It is no secret that my party wants an even stronger protection of discrimination than what is on the table today. However, we are pleased that we have put in place what is a reinforced protection against discrimination in Norway. The changes in the Gender Equality Act and the Labour Environment Act strengthen people's protection against discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e620	Modern, liberal democracy is characterised by the need to guarantee fundamental rights for all people. No matter who you are, where you come from, your skin color, lay, sex, cultural background or religious affiliation, the state must guarantee your rights and ensure you against discrimination. For us as a legislative authority, it will always be a primary task to ensure that the law is good enough all the way to ensure these fundamental rights for all people. This includes, inter alia: the responsibility for further developing the law to prevent discrimination. There is also the background to this proposition being considered today. The Christian People's Party, as indicated in the vote, will support the proposals for amendments to the Equality Act, the Discrimination Ombudsman Act and the Discrimination and Accessibility Act. With regard to the proposal to remove the rule of Section 13-3 of the Working Environment Act, the third paragraph of Section 13-3 represents, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, a fundamental short cut. Firstly, there is no good contribution to combating discrimination against homosexuals, and secondly, it weakens the position of religious freedom in this part of our law. The right to protection against discrimination cannot give any of us the right to be employed in faith-based businesses where this would be contrary to how the religion in question – based on its own teachings – believes it is right to operate. There is no evidence to suggest that the first paragraph of the same paragraph provides for access to discrimination on a factual basis. As the country's legislative assembly, we must assume that our law is precisely in place to ensure the fundamental rights of the individual. Therefore, it is a brief conclusion when the Government refers to general access to discrimination on a factual basis and refers the country’s faithful people – almost to whether they believe in one or the other – to reading the precursors of the law to see if their human rights are respected. Of course, these rights belong in the legal text. That's actually why we have a law. Many questions have been asked about how this should work in practice, and the Committee has been clearly informed, during its proceedings, by a wide range of religious communities that they are uncertain and concerned about what this will mean. It's got to be the majority's responsibility to explain. Nevertheless, when the government parties would do so, the religious and life-vision organisations made clear to the Committee on the understanding of religious freedom that should have been the basis for interpreting so-called factual purposes and practice. In a letter to the committee dated 3 February, they say, among other things: the following: ‘As representatives of religious communities and faith-based businesses in Norway, we will encourage the Stortingen to base the right religious communities and other religious establishments to define for themselves what positions are related to the purpose of their activities and the requirements of loyalty and lifestyle that must therefore be imposed.’» The letter is signed by presidents of the Norwegian Church and the chairperson of the Cooperation Council for Religious and Lifely Societies, which otherwise represents the Human-Ethical Union in the Council. The Christian Council of Norway, the Islamic Council and several other organizations are also behind the letter. In the setting, the government parties have not joined this recommendation. I find it alarming that when Stortinget deals with an important issue about the fundamental rights of minorities and the breadth of religious and life-view organisations gather with a common claim to the legislator, the government chooses to firmly reject it. In a true democracy, the majority power should never be used to restrict the fundamental rights of the minority. So we have a government in this country that can use its majority to sovereignly reject the minority's request to have its fundamental rights respected. So, even if we have a matter of freedom of faith to deal with, the government clearly says no to the Norwegian Christian Council and the Norwegian Church, they say no to the Islamic Council, they say no to the Human-Ethical Union – because we have a majority, we have to define their rights. It's arrogant. But worse than that, it's not in the deal of democratic ideals in a modern, liberal society. Finally, I would like to say that it is quite revealing when the representative Gjul links this to the opposition's different voice in the issue of marriage law – and even performs to say that it is the religious forces in the Right that have won over the homophobic. More clearly, it cannot be illustrated that for the red-greens, this case is concerned with how they – their perception, the majority’s view – define the rights of minorities, and that is to turn the case upside down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e647	Most of the law here is very much in agreement, but I want to make some comments and an explanation of vote for the Left's vote here today, as we are going to agree with the other opposition parties on the right to exercise employment from their religious point of view. The left has always been at the forefront of gay rights in all areas of society. But when you move into this with people's right to have faith and conviction, I think the struggle for tolerance is becoming totalitarian – then the majority will define what tolerance is, then the majority will decide how to exercise tolerance. As an active member of the Norwegian Church and member of the Council of Churches, I am going to fight for a Norwegian church to practice the beliefs that I believe, from my point of view, that that church should have. But to determine – as a representative of big business – what beliefs religious communities should have in such matters, I believe, is an overstepping of myself as a representative of big business. Then I transfer my political perception of what tolerance is, to a religious community, which is based on its human resources policy, its employment policy, its faith and belief. That is why I believe that the fight in this area must take place within religious communities, and that must be done in the light of what religious communities have established, namely their faith. If you always think it's the majority definition of tolerance to apply to all units, the tolerance becomes very totalitarian. Here I think we have reached the point where tolerance goes over – in the struggle for tolerance – to become a totalitarian tolerance. Therefore, the Left will vote as we do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e658	The protection of discrimination in Norwegian law is a central instrument for the fight against discrimination and for the realisation of human rights. Figures from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman show that discrimination against pregnant women in Norway is a problem. More than one third of the applications to the Ombudsman in the field of employment are about discrimination against women. We have therefore proposed that a ban on pregnancy be introduced. By imposing such a ban, we are at the same time making it even clearer that pregnancy cannot or must be stressed in the event of employment. The proposal will clarify the legal situation in this area and help to protect women from this type of discrimination. The same considerations also apply to parents who are to adopt and questions of family planning. A ban in the law will strengthen the protection of discrimination in this area. I am very pleased that the Committee agrees with the proposal to strengthen the protection of pregnant women from discrimination. I repeat that I am proud that the Government is taking this initiative and that the Storting supports it, but at the same time I must also say that I am ashamed that this is necessary for employers in Norway in 2010. I hope they listen to the signal that Stortinget is giving today. The right of individuals to religious practice and the right of individuals to protection against discrimination are fundamental elements of a democratic society and from a human rights perspective. Human rights are indivisible and cannot be negotiated. The right of individuals to freedom of religion is protected by several human rights conventions and gives the right to exercise their faith alone or with others. Religious freedom therefore also includes freedom for religious communities to, for example, determining the teachings and practices of the religious community. Religious communities are also employers, and in this context there is a need to clarify the relationship between the protection of individuals from discrimination and the autonomy of the religious community in relation to the teaching and practice of employment. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the Government's proposal to repeal the special rule in the Working Environment Act § 13-3, third paragraph. This implies that religious communities must meet the same requirements as other employers in relation to discrimination. That is to say, discrimination must be objective. It must be necessary and proportionate in relation to the subject of discrimination. This in turn means that religious communities must be able to justify their desire to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or sex. I want to strengthen the protection of individuals against discrimination – including within religious communities. I take note that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party – and now clearly also a united bourgeois opposition – believe that the proposal for amendments to the Working Environment Act significantly tightens the ability of the religious communities to actually establish their activities in relation to their own doctrinal beliefs, and that they believe that the Government's proposals narrow down the freedom of religion. But I repeat: freedom of religion is a right for the individual, while freedom of religion gives faith societies autonomy in relation to the practices and teachings of the religious community. In the case of religious societies such as employers, it has been necessary to clarify the relationship between the autonomy of religious communities and the individual's requirements for protection against discrimination. I want that protection strengthened also within religious communities. That's this balance we've been trying to figure out with these changes in laws. I believe – as opposed to the minority in the Committee – that the amendment of the law will provide clearer leadership and more manageable conditions. In the event of discrimination, the general rules of procedure lay down clear conditions to be met by the religious communities. They are described in detail in the legislative proposal. I also refer to the Government's proposal to change the employer's access to information about the jobseeker and the Committee's support for that proposal. With regard to the ability of religious communities to discriminate on a gender basis, this is regulated by the Equality Act. Religious communities will only be able to discriminate on the grounds of sex in relation to religious functions, rituals and employment if it is factual, necessary and proportionate. I believe that the legislative changes in the Equality Act and the Working Environment Act will lead to a reinforced protection against discrimination. There will be clearer rules on when discrimination is allowed, and I think that will benefit all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e688	For this government, the protection of homosexuals and lesbians is more important than freedom of belief. It's really worrying. Many hearing bodies may not have resigned, but they have found that OK, that's majority rule, and this law will be passed. What they are concerned about — and that is also the opposition here — is that it is important that the text of the law be provided with clear definitions, clarifications and exceptions. What we mean is that when we adopt this law, we adopt a vague law, and it opens up different interpretations. What's worrying is that we can now see a lot of lawsuits and bitter conflicts because you can't really interpret this law. My question to the Council of State will then be: does the Council of State see this issue – that we can now get a lot of cases in the courts, instead of having a proper law?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e695	No, we're getting a clearer law than we've had. The law we have had is unclear because it is not clear enough in its balance between two fundamental rights – freedom of faith and the protection of discrimination. I have to say, I'm very surprised at the tone of the bourgeois, who is taking so easy on that balance. I believe it is reasonable that while we take into account the freedom of religious communities to determine their practices and teachings, we demand that reasons be given and why it is appropriate and factual to discriminate. So with respect, we must have up against the difficult situation that is when two so fundamental rights in our society can be in conflict. To demand that we get a clear factual assessment, I believe is a natural consequence of that dilemma. It is very clear in the proposition what kind of requirements are set to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e700	I don't think the Council of State needs to worry that we don't see the problem or the balance. The question is just where you set the limit, I would almost say – whether it's inside or outside the door, in relation to the religious institutions and organizations. When I hear the statements of the Council of State, I think the Council of State individualizes the exercise of faith to a considerable extent. He's talking about the individual's right to belief. I feel that faith-exercising to a very large extent is also about sharing, and that it is actually an important part of believing. As Jesus says in the Bible, if I don't remember wrong: ‘For where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am in the midst of them.’ It's clear that it's an important signal, an important idea about what a community is and what a community is. Is it really the case that the Council of State believes that because you have an employment relationship, you shouldn't have control over what such communities are supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e712	What we are proposing today is not to remove the right of religious communities to discriminate, but to justify and balance it against another fundamental right – the right to avoid discrimination. When I say that I am responding to the tone of the debate, it is because the opposition in post-posts is high and dark on behalf of freedom of faith, while there has not been a single recognition – which I would at least have thought especially right parts – compared to the difficult dilemma that this balance between two rights is. That is why I react very much. When using terms like ‘totalitarian’ and that this does not belong in a true democracy, I think there is a lack of respect for the fact that there may be different views in a dilemma, in a balance, which I think is difficult for most of us. It upsets me a little bit, and I find it strange that the right does not have a clearer position in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e717	The Council of State is trying to ensure that the opposition takes a clear view of the balance between these two considerations. The point is, in fact, that the Government in its proposal has taken one consideration out of the legal text, so that the consideration of a religious community is interpreted in the pre-worker of the law and is no longer in the legal text. It could be to compare, if the Council of State were to be consistent, that one could then repeal the Equality Act and say that we decide that people should treat each other properly, and then equality between women and men can be interpreted on the basis of a general rule. It's not a balance. My question to the Council of State goes to the Council of State's response letter to the Committee, where he says that a general rule of law will also allow religious communities to change practices over time without changes in law. Does that mean that the Council of State will be willing to go back to the old law if it turns out that the religious communities are moving more conservatively in their interpretation of these questions? And what kind of relationship is there between the text of the law and the actual perception of what is right and wrong at all times?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e724	The law we are adopting today is my clear intention to stand, and I hope it will stand. That's our starting point. We have found here a balance which is difficult between different considerations, but which makes it possible to continue with what I have believed was the main issue of the Christian People's Party, namely that some religious communities will be able to take this kind of account of employment while at the same time demanding that it be more clearly balanced against the protection of discrimination, is justified in substance and shows that it is a proportionate response. Just from the point of view that I believe that in the proposal we recognise the dilemma – having respect for the second view – I react strongly to the fact that the representative in his post uses concepts such as that this does not belong in a true democracy, which I think is a way of talking about our proposal that should not be heard at home in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e729	The Council of State again refers to the balance of the opposition's posts, but the fact is that all the opposition's posts have actually pointed to both of these considerations and balanced them, while the Government's proposal implies that one consideration is taken out of the legal text, but must be interpreted by the law's preliminary work, i.e. the text of the proposal. I would like to repeat my question, because the Council of State has replied in a letter to the Committee in connection with the fact that we have dealt with this matter, as follows: a general rule of law will also allow religious communities to change their practices over time without any change in law. What is it in today’s legal text that prevents religious communities from changing their attitudes? And what is the connection between the Government's definition of freedom of belief and the actual positions of religious communities on these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e738	The difference is that today's law gives a general access. I believe that, in the balance between such important considerations, we should not give blank mandates to set aside one consideration. That means that we have to strive for there to be factuality and proportionality, and that we are therefore doing this in a more appropriate way by requiring a justification. Then I have to say that I think it's a little strange that it's always repeated that this will be so difficult for the religious communities and is so unclear while the Christian People's Party and the Right support the same approach to the possibility of, for example. not to hire a woman. What is very unclear and unclear about homosexuals is very clear and clear about women. I don't understand. The Progress Party has at least adopted a more principled approach and voted against everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e745	There is one thing with two sides that is being discussed here in Stortinget today, and I would like to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that it is precisely the observance of both fundamental rights, which is about not being discriminated against on an indiscriminate basis and of safeguarding freedom of faith, which is fundamental to us in this matter. What amazes me is a council of states which is very much talking about the rights of religious communities, but which at the same time has closed both ears and doors to a unanimous input from not only Christian societies, but all religious communities – all life-vision societies in Norway – and who have not been willing to engage in any dialogue with the opposition, at least not being willing to meet up in such a dialogue with the opposition, during the discussion of this matter in the Grand Duchy. Is it SV's principal program to be forced through here, cost what it costs, or is it such that the Council of State is actually concerned about listening to other views?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e754	I think it is very special that the representative Højbråten accuses me of not being open to dialogue. I even mean to remember that I was in the representative's office a few weeks ago. But being prepared for dialogue means no obligation to reach agreement when it is that the proposals we have do not prove to be possible to reconcile. I have full respect for, and have taken seriously, the recordings that have come both from the Christian People's Party and from different religious communities, but I believe that those proposals would keep us a more unclear legal state, which made us not sufficiently demanding that even the religious communities' access to discrimination – which should be there – be weighed up against the anti-discrimination protection that is so important to us. That is why I have not been able to meet those demands, because I disagree with them. That's the way it has to work in this room, that we all take a stand for what we agree or disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e759	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e765	History is full of examples of discrimination in the name of freedom of faith. There are still religious communities that see skin color as crucial for membership and performance. The history of disabled people has also been the subject of religiously justified discrimination. However, people with so-called homophilic forms of life are the only group of today's work environment laws that give religious communities an explicit right to discriminate. Fortunately, today there is a majority to remove the third paragraph of Section 13-3 of the Working Environment Act. Religious historians Dag Øistein Endsjö has explained the rule as an expression that the law operates with a “arrangement model” where different grounds for discrimination have different values. This provision is e.g. an expression that racism is perceived as more serious than homo-discrimination. There is no lack of religious texts that we will today regard as racist, such as. prohibits the mixing of breeds. Nevertheless, fortunately, it is totally unthinkable to allow religious communities to engage in racial discrimination. The minority today, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, writes in their comments that the religious communities should have the opportunity to ‘align their activities with their own doctrinal convictions’. What are the consequences of such a blank authorisation? Provided that it can be justified by educational convictions, why does the minority consider that discrimination against homosexuals is less serious than discrimination against people with a different skin colour or disabled person? Last year, the Right and Left, together with the government parties, stood for a common marriage law. On several occasions, both parties have called for a stronger protection against discrimination against homosexuals. Today, however, they are voting with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party to continue the right to indecent discrimination against homosexuals, arguing that the limit has been reached. Discrimination in religious societies does not happen at random. It affects persons who share the values of the faith society and view of life. The requirement for persons in teaching positions is agreed upon. But is it reasonable and proper for a watchman, a cleaning worker, or a person who cares for addicts to be discriminated against because she is the person she is? It's this Left's Step Skei Grande today calls totalitarian, it's this which is the limit Right and Left won't cross, and that's what the Christian People's Party leader thinks is about closing doors and ears. But who is it that closes doors and ears? The legislative proposal requires that discrimination be objective, necessary and not disproportionate to the target. That is a reasonable requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e785	It's interesting to hear this debate. I will not try to repeat much of what has been said. What I think is a little interesting here is that when we talk about freedom of religion, it's the one that these in the picture behind us stuck in 1814 as an inherent and inviolable right that we're discussing today. And what I think is a little special is that this government is looking for the loopholes for how it can tighten this freedom. The graver selection said there's going to be some boundaries, and then there were some grey zones. It's the grey zones the government is now using for everything they're worth, for tightening in. What you're doing now is you're putting the burden of proof on the religious communities. Now it is the religious communities that must in some way have a basis for applying the freedom of religion that is fundamental, while the burden of proof should normally lie on the one who will restrict freedom of faith, not on the one who will apply freedom of faith. So the council here also says that now you create clarity in the rules. That's exactly what you don't do. So mentioned is an example from a Christian school. From there I have my own experience, as a principal for eight years in a Christian school. I know this is a school community you're talking about. One cannot distinguish between the religion teacher and the gym teacher – or the janitor, for that matter. In many schools, the janitor may be the most important janitor, because he's one that the students can turn to a little bit outside of the school system, and one that has a very important function. There may be a housewife at the boarding school – there may be such functions. You talk about a school community sharing a set of common values. These schools and these businesses have a very neat way of doing this today. If you apply and become an employee there, you get a value document that you sign, where it is very clear which values you commit to. So today you have a very neat and good relationship with this. The problem is that the government with these intrusions on the contrary rotates it to, and makes it unclear and difficult for many of these actors. I'm also among those who think it's strange to listen when you talk about having a consultation and a recording. Stoltenberg was here three weeks ago talking about the importance of consultation, now you should listen to the people. You have even created your own Internet pages where you can make recordings, etc. My question is, when are you going to start listening to the recordings? Here you've got a collective input from all religious and life-viewing societies, religious communities, saying that this is an intrusion that goes beyond their integrity and self-government. Nevertheless, you say, like the council here, yes, but we do what we want, because we don't agree. Then I actually think it's leading people behind the light to say that you want to have consultation and input. You better not do that, and then you have to do what you've decided in advance, otherwise this will be a game for the gallery. This law goes through. The rest of us just have to look forward to 2013 and get a different majority then, so that this law can be reversed and we can get the freedom of employment and freedom of faith back in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e802	I couldn't help noticing Mr. Solvency Horne's posts, where the government parties were accused of being against diversity, of being intolerant and not respecting parents' own choices in religious private schools. I think this criticism is hollow when, in its alternative state budget, the Progress Party wanted to remove State aid to the gay organisations because it is not the responsibility of the state to support special interest groups in Norwegian society. In addition, members of the Advance Party have been called upon to ban Muslim private schools. It is difficult to conclude with anything other than that the concept of diversity of the Progress Party only includes Christians and heterophiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e807	Let me first say my heart's agreement with Knutson Barstad's representative that the recent debate on the place of religion in society is quite confusing. But it's, with respect to reporting, not just the Progress Party that represents that confusion, it's also doing what the party itself represents here in the Chamber. The Socialist Left Party is the party that is actually willing to use coercion against religious communities if they don't do as SV will, which has also been willing to ban religious schools, and which has recently lighted light and light on the possibilities in the law to tighten up religious schools. Therefore, it is not reassuring when the law adopted here today in the Grand Duchy leaves so much at the discretion of the administration as to safeguard what the Ministry of Proposition calls ‘basic and fundamental’ rights. I have to quote – that is very well said. It's in the proposition on page 33: « both freedom of religion and the protection of discrimination are key elements of a democratic society and from a human rights perspective. [[...]] These are rights which are regarded as fundamental and fundamental. Both rights perspectives are very important for the implicated parties and society at large. It is about the protection of human dignity and dignity.» This Christian People's Party can sign. This is precisely why – because of the fundamental and fundamental rights we are talking about – they should both be enshrined in the legal text, as the representative, Håbreck, has called for. It is right – I can confirm it – that the Council of State has been in my office, and we have had a dialogue. It didn't end up in any result. Of course, I respect and take note of that. But I think it is far more serious than that the Council of State does not take my views into account, that he does not at all take into account the overall community of life-viewing societies and religious communities in Norway have written to the Committee on. For our part, we agree that discrimination must be factual, it must be necessary, and it must be proportionate. But we believe that it is an absolutely necessary clarification from the Stortinget that legislates that freedom of religion is also written into the legal text, because it has a very central importance in such a society as Norway, where human dignity is to be respected, human faith is to be respected, and the right of religious communities to pursue the purpose of their activities and to interpret their own teachings. This shall not be done from the pulpit of the Storting, from any representatives of the magistrates or from any government councils — the religious communities themselves shall do so. They are the ones who will also manage it as an employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e823	One thing is that the representative has the Højbrätten right in, and that's that it says about two fundamental values. It says about freedom of religion, and it says about discrimination. When the majority and the Council of State are accused of not listening to one, I think there's just as much reason to accuse the Højbråt and the civilians of not listening to those who are being discriminated against. They agree that they are being discriminated against, and that is also a fundamental value. I believe that the legislative proposal that has been tabled balances these considerations because there is still an opening for a factual reason for discriminating on this basis. But what the opposition completely consistently fails to respond to is: Why are these kinds of rules acceptable in terms of discrimination based on race or sex, but not in terms of homophilia? I think we're at the heart of the matter here, because it's still a taboo to talk about it. Everyone has agreed that it is not possible to discriminate because of race, and that is why there are rules attached to it. It is also agreed that it is no longer possible for religious religious faiths to continue to discriminate against women — at least no one dares to say that they think it is right, let alone whether there is a great deal of basis in religious texts for it. There are also rules on the substance of this. Now we say that these rules of procedure also apply to those who are gay. There is no other principle underlying this assessment than the assessments made in relation to race and sex. Therefore, I believe that it is the opposition that has an explanation problem in relation to the principal approach to this matter, not the Government and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e834	To the last: Representative Andersen troubles the question of race here. That, I think, is a slightly special contribution. But it is very clear from the text of the proposition that the government also distinguishes here and looks at the issue of sex and homophilia differently from racial issues in that context. Then the Progress Party also had a little visit to the Christian People's Party in its main post. Let me just say it so that the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party disagree on a lot, but we also agree on a lot. Right on this matter, we agree. We have different traditions in the sense that where the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party agree on some values, the Christian People's Party has tradition of not just standing up and yelling for those values, but fighting to get through to those values. We have also made a real effort in this matter, in line with our tradition, of which I am very proud. This case is about balancing human rights and the place of human rights in the law. It also means that the matter is not about – as some red-green representatives clearly express – my or your personal view of these theological or moral questions. We may have different moral or theological assessments of the issues, but nevertheless have a fundamental view of minority rights. That's why the opposition stands here today, because we've just seen it. So to the State Council's comment that we are inconsistent because we support the Government's proposal for changes to the Equality Act. No, we're not. The Government's proposal for the Equality Act explicitly mentions the rights of religious communities. That's the difference. We have also dealt with the government parties in the course of the committee procedure if one could not do the same in the Working Environment Act. It has then been rejected. There is therefore no balance between two fundamental rights proposed by the Government here in the law, because it has been proposed to take into account one aspect of the law, which must be read in the preprocessor of the law and interpreted until freedom of belief continues to apply. Fortunately, I have not yet seen such a consistent line being adopted in other areas in relation to the Discrimination Act that the Government is working with in relation to the Equality Act, that this is being lifted in the law and that people are generally allowed to be treated in the same way. Then the representative of Haugli refers to the requirements in the first paragraph of Section 13-3 and says that these are reasonable claims. Yeah, that's reasonable demands. It's actually a term that the whole hall here agrees to stand. It will have unanimous support after treatment here today. The fundamental rights shall be guaranteed by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e849	In the last decades, Norway has become a more and more secular society. We've become a society that's also become more and more liberal. Personally, I think that's a good development. I appreciate living in a society where there's more room for being different, where there's more room for having an equation different from that of the majority -- all of these things. At the same time, I think you see trends that the pendulum has turned in the opposite direction, that we get some sort of illiberal liberality in society that forces us to ask the question: do we have room for the religious at all? Do we have room for those who still think that religion is important, that faith is important, and want to live their lives and build their institutions around it? Illiberal liberality is basically a well-meaning concept. It's about my liberalism going to apply to everyone else as well. So the question is, isn't it in a society that there should be limits to what politicians should be able to impose on liberalism? Our task is to secure some fundamental rights for everyone – yes. But the task of Storting is also to recognise where the limits of politics should go – that there are some people and some institutions governed by slightly different principles in some areas than perhaps the large, liberal majority will do. There's a balance sheet, and I think this law goes too far. The question is in the ultimate sense: Who is to decide? Some common frameworks and some common rules should be in place. But in religious societies it must be that theology is the basis, not the opinion of the Council of State. We've had a tradition in Norway because we've seen the Norwegian Church as a kind of under-use of the state. We have had a tradition that several parties have been afraid of the Church and how the Church should affect the State. One should perhaps also be afraid of how the state should influence the Church. There are some difficult dilemmas. Equally, I think we're going to have a society where there's room for faith, space for religion, and where religious communities are going to be allowed to rule themselves without too much interference from the Council of State, even if the Council of State had to have good and liberal intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e860	It was Andersen's contribution that prompted me to take the floor again, not to let it be said that the Christian People's Party for its part has not been willing to listen in this matter. It falls on its own unreasonableness. If, for our part, we had not been willing to listen, we would only have voted to keep today's legislation, without any kind of discussion or dialogue with the Government on other alternative solutions. But we have been willing on our part, in order to create the most predictable and broad majority in the Storting, to discuss solutions with the Government other than what the Government has presented. We have. The result is that the Government will not move on. We respect that and take note of it, but we will not be accused of not having listened and not having been in dialogue – we have been. Then I have to say that I think it is going to be very, very special when the representative Andersen says that because there is no requirement to be entitled to racial discrimination, you cannot vote in favour of this. What religious communities have asked for it? What we have in front of us, what the Great One has in store for us today, is an enquiry from all the religious communities in the country, including life-vision societies, who ask the Great One to ‘understand the right of religious communities and other religious establishments to define for themselves how positions are related to the purpose of activity’. They ask the Committee, in further work on legislative texts and comments, to establish an understanding of the criteria of substance that meet the needs of the internal self-government of religious communities and faith-based businesses. That's what the majority has chosen to close doors and ears for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e867	When I think that you have chosen not to listen to everyone or to discuss, I'm talking about those who are actually being discriminated against. Because here are the ones that should be listened to. There are equally important and equal principles that stand against each other. It is not like this in my and SV's view that one should rank these. It is as important not to be discriminated against for their race or sex as it is not to be discriminated against for their sexual orientation. It is an important principle, it is a fundamental principle, and these two principles and religious freedom collide occasionally, because the content of religion is discriminatory. Then you have to find a solution to this, because you have to respect both principles. I believe that the government has found a good solution now, because it does not say that it is always so that it is not allowed to discriminate. It gives a room for when there's factual reason. It's about e.g. teaching positions, but there is no particular point in allowing the guardian to be discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation. Yes, there should be room for faith – of course it should be. But when the representative of the Red Isaac says that it sounds like some people are sometimes afraid of religious communities in this context, I must say that we who have fought for equality also for women, know that there has not been a lot of drag help to get. Gender equality between women and men in society, within the family and elsewhere has not been a priority. So it's clear that we recognize some of the arguments that this is based on faith. Now no one is saying it anymore, because you have a different political view, which now everyone joins. I'm very happy about that. I'm also quite sure that in some years the view of gay people will have changed in the same way, and we'll all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e876	Mr Oyvind Håbrek has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e880	In the case of the specific example of the janitor, as several have mentioned here, it is actually mentioned in the proposition of the Government itself. It's important to clarify that the government has actually put in an understanding of it. When it is said that you do not listen to those who are being discriminated against, I will strongly reject it. When we talk about homosexuals in concrete terms, the Christian People's Party together with them has, over time, raised several of their demands not to be discriminated against. That is what we do in every context, whether it concerns our proposals for changes to the law on rent, asylum policy, or the work on a news report on gays that we started when we were in government. I can mention many other examples. But then we set limits, which I also perceive that part of the government parties are trying to do, in relation to other fundamental human rights, and in this case it concerns freedom of belief. The basic point here is that if we are to maintain that balance, both of these considerations must be enshrined in the legal text.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e887	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over. [[See page 2227]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e903	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e912	Proposals have promoted a case in which they address how children with disabilities are to be able to develop and live their lives in the best possible way, as well as how to give parents, through different schemes, a better opportunity to contribute themselves and to obtain the necessary relief. All batches see the need to assess measures and arrangements as a whole, so that the arrangements become predictable, transparent and easy to deal with. All but the Progress Party believe that this will be a central theme of the Cooperation Reform, and these parties indicate that the work on a new common health and social service law in the municipality will include more coordinated assistance. The Progress Party has little faith that the new law or the Cooperation Reform will solve the challenges raised in this matter. Parents who are told that they are waiting or have had a child with disabilities are going through a difficult phase, and it is therefore becoming extra stressful to have to deal with a complicated and poorly transparent auxiliaries. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to strengthen the advisory service for parents in ultrasound testing, if you are told that you have a disabled child. The same batches propose to ensure that professionals hold an advisory function for families awaiting disabled children in hospitals with children’s wards. The opposition parties ask the Government to follow up the 2005 strategy plan for families with disabled children and also to address suggestions in the context of the care pay scheme. There is a system that is considered to be unsatisfactory, which also appeared clearly during the interpellation debate here in the hall last Tuesday. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party consider it unfortunate that the arrangement works very differently from the municipality to the municipality, and believes it is important to put in place a system that allows parents or close relatives to contribute with care and care where it is right for the user as well. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are also asking for an overall review of the care pay system so that similar cases are treated equally in the different municipalities. The Advance Party and the Christian People's Party also ask the Government to submit proposals for entitlement to care allowance, in line with the scheme for workers, for persons with social security benefits who fall out of the child's period of illness. The same two batches ask the Government to index the basic benefit, a benefit that has been subdued over several years and for which the Progress Party asked for adjustments in the budgetary procedure. But then we got no support from any parties. So until perhaps the most important proposal that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are promoting in this matter, where we ask the Government to present a proposal on how to bring aid, care and care pay together into one state system to ensure the simplest and best possible legislation that can be offered in an equal way across the country. Many are waiting for such a review and for the changes that should occur. The Progress Party asks the Government to consider legislating the right to user-driven personal assistance with state funding. A lot of people want BPA, but a lot of people get rejected. We believe it is important to have a state funding mechanism, so that one is guaranteed an equivalent offer throughout the country. The Christian People's Party and the Right are asking for the promotion of a change in the law that ensures the BPA system, as well as for users to have the right to choose the employer's model. The Progress Party will subsidize this proposal, proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox There is a major problem that there is a lack of coordination of services, and all opposition parties propose that there be a legal obligation to provide a coordinator. The Christian People's Party asks that the coordinator be set up under the direction of the municipalities. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that they should be established under the auspices of Nav. And the Progress Party has in its proposal that there should be a government-funded service where the funds follow the user. Christian People's Party also asks the Government to grant the right to an individually adapted SFO scheme for children throughout the education cycle. The Progress Party will not support that proposal, as we see that it can actually prevent some of the children who want user-driven personal assistants or other measures instead from getting them, and that they will be referred to these SFO schemes. The Christian People's Party wants to increase the rates of care pay in the municipalities. Nor will the Progress Party support this proposal, as it does not equalise the differences or say anything about the level of care pay. Instead, the Progress Party proposes a state system that ensures non-discrimination and asks the Government to draw up binding norm rates for care pay. Then it is proposed from the Christian People's Party to give the right to pay care for up to three months after the child dies. There, the Progress Party – and also some others, I expect – will refer to the proposal that, at least I believe, is the most important thing in this case: a review of the three arrangements. All these things should come up there. The parties to the Government have not made any proposals in this matter. I would like to take up the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted alone or with others, and I would like to say once again that we will vote in favour of proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e954	The representative, Mr Giltun, has promoted the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e957	Proposals address important issues for large-scale families. The examples we've heard of in the media over the past few weeks are not good. The scheme must be renewed. There shall be an opportunity for both parents to be at work, if they so wish, and to take care of care properly. The SFO is available up to and including the 7th stage and is now working on the school leave scheme for disabled students. The individual level and the obligation to have a coordinator is a good tool for improving services in good cooperation between the family and the public. In addition to several coordinators and advisers, the obligation to draw up an individual plan and the participation of relatives and clients must become real. It is high time to look at the care pay system. It was introduced more than 20 years ago, and there have been several other schemes later that partly overlap and complement each other. I am therefore pleased that the Government already in its government statement, Soria Mora II, included care pay on the list of care tasks to be solved. The Health Minister has notified a rapid-working sample to review care services for dependants that replace municipal services and propose changes based on an overall assessment. This includes both care pay, care allowance and social assistance. We want more flexible arrangements with the family as an active partner in caring for the closest relatives. I have had consultations with user and professional organisations in West Agder about Nav. There I got a lot of good feedback, among other things. This: You politicians make changes after jumps and jumps. Every time there's a matter in the media, you decide something new. The new approach does not always go hand in hand with the other solutions, and users and employees are confused. I can agree with that. Therefore, these important issues need to be addressed properly. When difficult and complex issues arise in public space, there is often a requirement for more rules, regulations and laws. However, one should not forget that too many employees’ judgements and professional judgements work well, and rules and regulations are adapted to the individual. Some of the issues in the media are good examples that it is when the judgement is to be made public, that it is going to be wrong. Sometimes it's wrong to make more of what doesn't work. The Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party proposes that the Government submit proposals for a state system. I am concerned that the services should be performed as closely as possible to those in need of assistance. It is not automatically the case that state schemes provide better practice. And I think it is a paradox that the court side, which often wants government arrangements, will only have this in the soft policy areas: care, child protection, drugs and social services. It's wrong for me. I want politicians to prioritise locally and make difficult decisions on both care and industrial development. Finally, I have to say that I think it is quite perceptive that the opposition has not been able to agree on a solution in this case. Everyone thinks it's important, but they agree, so they can't be. The Christian People's Party stands out in the media with the «solution». A political solution requires a majority, which the Christian People's Party has not managed to obtain. The opposition has presented several different variants of consensus, but they fully agree on only three things: they agree on ultrasound, and it comes in the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, they agree on professionals in hospitals, it is covered, among other things. in the case of professional soundness requirements of the law on specialist health services etc. and they agree that strategy plan 05 should be followed up. So here's the bourgeois fraction. That they can't even agree on such an important matter is a cross of thought. The issue is that we agree that the system should improve. The Christian People's Party wants the Government to present proposals for solutions. That is what the Christian People's Party will get. That is what the Minister for Health has said she should deliver – and we want it delivered quickly. So here we are invited either to adopt the submitted proposal from the opposition that cracks in several directions, or to await the outcome of the fast-working sample. If we are to have complete, predictable and robust arrangements, it is right to wait. A better solution is on the way. I can guarantee that the Labour Party will follow up, it will be better, and it will go quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e986	Parents who have children with disabilities face many challenges. They should be sure that society stands up with the help they need. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. The representative proposal we are discussing today addresses many issues relating to public schemes that should support the opportunity to take care of our closest. The right has also taken the initiative to strengthen care pay schemes in the past in order to provide better opportunities for those taking care of their immediate needs to return to work when care is completed. Several of the questions in the draft representative are also addressed in a separate legislative proposal from the Government relatively soon. That is why, in dealing with this matter, we have been concerned to focus on matters that are not substantially affected in the future proposition, such as: the need to strengthen the advisory service for permanent parents who are told in the course of ultrasound examination that they are expecting a disabled child. This can help to give families the security they need, so that they are as equipped as possible to receive the child who is coming. It is important that permanent parents are given a thorough introduction into the possibilities and support schemes for, in particular, children with severe disabilities. Therefore, the right considers that the Government must ensure that all hospital children’s wards employ professionals who hold an advisory function for the families who are awaiting, or have been given, a disabled child. As representatives of the labour and social committee, we are still receiving enquiries from families with disabled children. These requests are based on both inertia in the system, lack of or little flexibility in support schemes and new proposals that can make life easier for those with disabilities and their families. We have addressed many of these issues, for example: loss of care allowance for families with disabled children. Nav has made practical changes for the grant of care allowance. This has deprived many families of the opportunity to take care of the children themselves. The right has challenged the Government to ensure that the changes in practice do not affect families who have been granted support and have established a scheme for their children. So far, the government has only given bureaucratic answers, which go all the way across the objectives of their own strategy plan for families with disabled children. User-controlled personal assistance is the form of care that gives the user the most freedom to decide in his or her own everyday life. We believe that the rights to this must be strengthened, and that the offer must also be given to children. Right-wing calls for the Government to promote legislative proposals during 2010 to ensure that people with extensive needs for practical and personal assistance are entitled to user-led personal assistance. The proposal must also ensure that users have the right to choose the employer model. The right considers that society needs to strengthen coordination around families with disabled children. We would therefore ask the Government to make proposals to legislate the obligation to provide coordinator in Nav for families with disabled children. Right will also propose that parents who are responsible for the care of children and who have had full care allowance or increased aid for at least one year should be entitled to the same benefit for three months thereafter if the child dies. These parents are making an enormously important effort for their children and for society. Then we have to make sure that society also sets up for them, when they need it. I'm addressing proposal No. 11 from the Right and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 12, from the Right Alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1009	The representative of Sylvi Graham has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1012	This is one of the areas in which I have been on the Stortinget for the 13 years I have received the most enquiries. The enquiries come from families who have had children with disabilities. What is perhaps most characteristic of this is that there is a lack of coordinated assistance that is the problem. It turns out that many people have many more rights than they actually get. Therefore, I would like to encourage the Government and the Council of State to look at how to work on coordinating these services in the future, because there is not always the lack of concrete rights that is the big problem today, but that one has to be the coordinator of an auxiliaries, where one hand does not know what the other has a duty to or is doing. It has even been that someone has seen to have to establish their own companies that have given advice on this, and some municipalities have even had to buy services from private people to get this to. It says a little bit about the fact that here we have a government that has great potential for improvement when it comes to rigging the aid that these families both need and are entitled to. It is important to get good advice when you are in such a situation. But I am not sure that it is most important to legislate the obligation to offer that advice in a hospital, because the children are not there for that long. But what's very important is that you can quickly establish a very good and close contact with child rehabilitation and the municipalities, and that you can set up an individual plan to regulate what kind of help you should get and be a tool for the family, and not least for the administration. As far as possible, the family should not be the coordinator of the administration – not only should they be released, they should be released. It is a public responsibility to ensure that this is coordinated. User-controlled personal assistance is a matter with which the Government works. I'm going to admit that I'm a hot follower of the scheme, because it's a tool that enables you to do practical tasks that a sail cannot, because you have a disability. It is said that families with children may also need this. I await with excitement the matter to come, because it is a very important matter, which has principal aspects when it comes to anti-discrimination, but which also have practical aspects. But I do not belong to those who believe that all kinds of assistance from the auxiliary equipment can be replaced on a professional basis with a user-driven personal assistant position, because it is a little different things. In many areas, children with disabilities and their families need highly qualified professional assistance in those areas where there is a need, and they do not necessarily catch up with a user-led personal assistant, which is more likely to have a practical assistance function that replaces the capacity they do not have. It's obviously not everyone who's trained in these areas, and who'll be able to do specialized things marine. Here, in my view, you must not end up with either – or, but a boat – and, because that will be what these families need. Finally, the theme of care pay has been debated in Stortinget in the last week. It's clear that the government is going to go through this system, because there are huge inequalities that many people have said. In practical everyday life, it means a great deal of inequality for families who need different arrangements in this area. I very much agree with those who say that we need a complete review of this – not a bit, because then we end up with schemes that are very quickly proving to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1025	I would like to congratulate the proposers on addressing this important matter. The representative Andersen mentioned enquiries that have made the impression, and that there were many of them. I have not received so many, but those I have received have made a big impression on me. I am very pleased that in this matter there is such a broad consensus between all parties that a desire for a society where there is room for all, and where everyone has equal opportunities, and that there is an understanding that families with children with disabilities have special challenges and great care needs that require society to put up and back up the formidable effort that these parents put down for their children and for their families. A society where we accept inequalities is a better society than a society where we cultivate equality. I can't be told enough: these parents deserve the big society to set up, and we have to make good arrangements. I am also pleased that the government has initiated important processes to strengthen the offer. I believe that the measures must have some specific features. One is that there is a need for closeness in action. There shall be proximity between auxiliary equipment and the individual user. Flexibility in the arrangements must be required so that families do not experience falling between two chairs and there is a need for simplification. Based on these needs, I can't see that government is the way to go, precisely because the proximity is so important. For these families are as different as all other families, and these children are as different as all the other children. These measures must also focus on ensuring maximum good development for each child and on the most ‘normal’ everyday life for the family and parents, for example. the possibility of going to work. With the joint recognition that has emerged in this debate and that lies in the vote, that there is a need to strengthen the measures, I expect – like the rest of the government parties – that the Government will quickly come back with the measures announced. In this case, the word ‘sorting societies’ has been used, without anyone mentioning it. Let me just say that for the Center Party, the fight against such a sorting society itself will be one of the core elements of our entire policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1038	The goal of our society must be that everyone must be allowed to live as they wish, including children with disabilities and their families. It is important to facilitate quality of life and mastery. Children have the right to live with their parents. This includes, inter alia: downgraded to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Our welfare country also has schemes that add up to it. Unfortunately, not everyone has the opportunity. Last week on TV 2, we could see, and today's fatherland friend, we could read about the family of little Petrine, who no longer receives care from Nav, a support equal to full pay. Instead, they are offered an institution space of thousands of dollars a day, or 148 kroner. the day of the care allowance. If this leads to the family not being able to care for little Petrine, it's a miserable social economy, and it's unsustainable to the family, who just wants to do everything they can at home with Petrine. In this case, the Christian People's Party has proposed a number of measures for disabled children and their families. In particular, it is central to the proposal that the Government should submit a proposal on how to bring aid, care and pay together into one state scheme to ensure the simplest and best possible legislation that can be offered in an equal way across the country. In its opinion on the proposal under consideration today, the Association of Norway’s Handicaps pointed out that financial support schemes for many are perceived as unfair, inflexible and that they provide little security in relation to the working situation and the means of income. The Health Authority has, among other things: large differences observed between municipalities and municipalities in the practice of the care pay scheme. A whole of 70 municipalities do not pay care pay, and the amount of the payment varies. The Christian People's Party suggests that even those who have been paid care must be given the right to receive this for up to three months in cases where the child they have cared for dies. Several families can tell that the payment of care pay stopped immediately after the child died. Thus they were in the midst of grief without income. Few people are able to apply for a job while they are losing their child. I'm glad that the government is following up this for those with care money in Prop. 64 L, but believes that the requirement for three years' care for later care allowance is unnecessary. We also believe that this scheme should apply to care pay. The rates of pay for care should also be increased and a comprehensive review of the scheme should also be carried out in order to ensure that similar cases are treated equally regardless of the address of residence. When families learn that they are waiting or having a disabled child, or experience an accident or illness that results in the child, it is essential that they receive good support in that grief and the shock that this can bring to many. Counsellors or supervisors in all hospitals should be a standard. These may contribute to information, guidance on support schemes and coordinate the launch of current support measures. Similarly, the Christian People's Party proposes that municipalities have a statutory obligation to offer families with disabled children a coordinator. These should be able to assist in the establishment of a comprehensive and good support service. The government has agreed to submit an individual right proposal to BPA, user-driven personal assistance. This mechanism has been important to promote independence and independence for people with disabilities. Children, too, must be given individual rights to this service, from birth onward. This could help to increase the freedom of choice for families, including: because they may choose to have assistance at home so that the child can live at home. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government needs to submit legislative proposals as soon as possible to ensure individual rights to user-led personal assistance. In the debate there are several who have said that one does not want a jump and jump method where legislative proposals or important arrangements are adopted right above the table. But I would like to remind you that this proposal was submitted a long time ago, and similar proposals have been adopted before, and the government has announced that a wish to come back with matters. It should not have been in time in a case of so many good actions, which, to the extent that the government parties speak positively both in the vote and in the debate. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to be able to promote a measure to just meet our goal, that everyone should be allowed to live as they wish. Finally, I would just like to present the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1068	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1072	I am pleased that the Stortinget draws attention to the situation of children and young people with disabilities and their families. The draft representative, which is being discussed here today, makes eleven concrete proposals. Unfortunately, I would say that many of the proposals are designed in such a way that they signal that the best thing that can happen to disabled children is that their parents stop working. The government is concerned that families with disabled children should be able to participate in society in the same way as others. We welcome a discussion on how the organisation, arrangement and scope of different schemes can support in such a development. Through Soria Moria II, the government has committed itself to working towards better and coordinated assistance for vulnerable children and young people and their families. Furthermore, it has been announced that the existing strategy plan for children and young people with disabilities will be reviewed. Support shall be provided for holiday and leisure schemes for children of low-income parents, and provision shall be made for the relief and assistance of families with children with high disabilities. These are commitments that we have already made well. It is also signaled that the system of user-led personal assistance should be extended. In recent years, the government has launched several measures and processes that will help improve the situation of families with disabled children. I would like to mention, in particular, the establishment of learning and mastering centres in hospitals, which have developed offers for families with children and young people with disabilities. A separate national website, family network.no, is an important tool in this context. From 1 January this year, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family has been responsible for the continuation and further development of this website. In 2007, the Family Wizard project was established. It is a further development of the so-called TaKT programme, where the focus was on the organisation of municipal services and the promotion of competences in the municipalities of the country. The Family Guide project has now established models for a more comprehensive and coordinated service provision for children with disabilities. These models shall ensure real user involvement, individual level and primary responsible service provider to families who so wish. The project focuses on interaction between the different levels of administration. I recently received an investigation into better coordination of services for vulnerable children and young people from the so-called Flatø Committee. I intend to send this investigation in broad consultation during this month. The follow-up must also be seen in the context of the Mid-Lineg Committee setting, which focuses on the situation of students with special needs. Relevant is also the follow-up to the Interaction Reform and work on new common health and social services laws, where coordination of services also has a central place. And I very much acknowledge the importance of raising this issue. On 1 January 2009, the new Discrimination and Availability Act entered into force. This is a law that is at the forefront of the Nordic region in its area and provides protection against discrimination because of disability. The basis for discrimination includes both physical, mental and cognitive disabilities. The law imposes an obligation of both general organisation and individual organisation. Infringement of these rules of organisation is regarded as discrimination. The law contributes to ensuring equal opportunities and rights for children with disabilities for training, education, equivalent health and social services and social inclusion. The law also protects parents from being discriminated against because of their child’s disability. I would also like to point out that the Government has presented a very offensive action plan for universal design and increased accessibility, which will work positively for all age groups. We also follow the Law on advice or other representation arrangements in municipalities and county municipalities for people with disabilities etc. These advices allow for increased power and security of performance in local work. In cooperation with other departments, we will finish work on reviewing the current strategy plan for children with disabilities and their families and assess the need for further action. We want to stress that children with disabilities and their superiors have sex. Girls and boys, women and men can face different challenges in different life situations. Measures targeting disabled children and their families must take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1095	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1098	It may well be that decisions taken by the jump and jump method are often decisions that people do not demand, while the lengthened decisions take the year to get implemented here. It shows this with pay for care, among other things. Sintef Health prepared a report on developments between 2001 and 2006. The scheme will be: ‘characterised as a greedy scheme operating in large-scale care families [[Eriksen and Andersen 2004]] It was not new in that investigation either. There was also an investigation in 2003. The majority asked in 2002 for a case to be submitted on care pay schemes. The Directorate then discussed various arrangements, recommending that a stronger state regime be introduced to prevent caregivers from being exploited. I then ask the Council of State: when an assessment is to be submitted, is the Council of State in favour of a stronger state regime, of an equivalent system throughout the country, and that there will be some changes soon after the proposal has been submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1108	Over the approximately 20 years that the care pay system has existed, it has received a lot of political attention. It has been the subject of a number of trials, surveys and internal investigations. It is the right of the representative, and there is also considerable attention to the future of this scheme. I can only refer to what the Minister of Health and Health recently said in Stortinget, namely that the Government will set up a public committee to look into care benefits for relatives. The purpose of that work is, of course, to see what kind of potential we have to improve the arrangements, not least in the perspective we are discussing here. It is too early for me now to anticipate the conclusion of that process, but when the Government initiates it, it is because we also have the political will to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1113	So, as mentioned earlier today and also earlier in this Chamber, Nav has suddenly made changes this year in the practical allocation of care allowances. It has deprived many parents of the opportunity to take care of their children themselves. The alternative is that these parents go into normal employment, and the state pays someone else to care for these children. We have read about parents who have been given care because the child needs supervision because of a chronic illness in the evening post of February this year. So state councilman Stortinget rhetorically asks today whether the opposition believes that the best thing that can happen to the child is that the parents stop working. It makes me want to ask a similar rhetorical question: Is it so that the Council of State believes that the best thing that can happen to the children is that the children get a care package from someone other than mother or father, and that this is abruptly interrupted?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1120	No, it's not like the government wants to put leadership on what's the best care for each child. What we're concerned about is that we're going to have an offer that's best for the child, and that's why parents can take care of their children and follow up children with disabilities to an adequate degree. But then it is an objective that it should be possible to combine it with the most normal professional life, which is difficult for many to do today. That's why we have to look at the kind of structures and arrangements that can facilitate it. What I said in my introduction has something to do with the device on this proposal. That doesn't mean, of course, that in many of the individual proposals there are not things that we can discuss and that will work towards the goal that I have set out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1125	First I want to say that of course not everything is terrible for families with children with disabilities. Fortunately, we have many good actions, and it is up to us to coordinate them best. That is why we have also had some suggestions. The Council of State is also the Council of State for the Children, and I have been to the Children's, Equality and Inclusion Department's website and read the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Item No 7 says clearly that children, as far as possible, have the right to know their parents and care for them. For me, there is a little reason, and I could have read several e-mails that I have received, where parents express something completely different. When is the Council of State going to comply with the law of the United Nations Children's Convention that children can actually be cared for, when we have so many examples showing the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1134	I fully acknowledge the problem because I also get many of these enquiries. I see a lot of families struggling. It's important that we do something about it, and it's good that these things are addressed in the Storting. As I explained in my article, we are already in full swing with a number of different processes to figure out how to improve the offer we have, further. I would say, just as the representative Karin Andersen said in his statement, that often it is not the formal rights that are the problem in Norway today, but to make them real. I mean then, for example. that the process we have initiated, linked to the Flatø Committee, is important. Its follow-up will be very exciting because we have a great need to prevent children and their families from becoming public service wasteballs in this situation. One of the most important things we can do is make sure that the right to the services we've said these families will get, actually become real and respected around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1141	I just want to say first that I am not very reassured that some decision will be taken very quickly after it is presented in the case mentioned here, in response to the previous question, because there have been enough cases in the past where proposals for changes have been submitted, and that it has been investigated without any change. Another thing. With regard to the coordination of services, it is the problems that parents have with, namely getting the services they actually have right to, and having them coordinated. The Progress Party and the Right have now put forward a proposal that the responsibility for coordination should lie in Nav. The Christian People's Party has proposed that it should be in the municipality, and the government parties have not proposed any things of the world. If this coordination role is going to be a little random here and there, it's going to be hard for users to deal with it too. Can the Council of State say anything about who should be responsible for the coordination of services? Where should that role be?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1148	First, I want to say that it can be easy to draw rhetorical points about it with investigations that take time. But I think that the Committee's position might illustrate why there is a need in this area to go through some processes. Because even the opposition is unable to gather on proposals today. It shows that there are a lot of good intentions here that I think all parties share, but it takes a thorough political effort to come up with the solutions that work, and that's what we're after. In terms of coordination, we started the process with the Flatø Committee precisely because we want to clarify the responsibilities, ensure that all children and their families are followed up clearly through various public services, and that services have to work together to help children instead of running families from office to office. It is my clear intention to realize, and it will be exciting to see how the forthcoming round of consultations can contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1155	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1161	As many people have experienced, parents with disabled children face major challenges in everyday life. In particular, parents are subjected to unnecessary and heavy burdens due to heavy red tape and large-scale forms fields, unbridled schemes and the lack of competence of public authorities. On the TV 2 news on March 1st and March 2nd, we got insight into Petrine's life as the disabled and her family. The parents themselves wanted to take 100 pst. care for Petrine at home, as they have done in the last ten years, but because of Nav's reinterpretation of the rules, they will no longer receive care allowance. After four months of application, they are offered NOK 148 per day of care pay from the municipality to carry out the same task as an institution, which costs NOK 4 500 per day, i.e. That's $1.7 million. kr per year. This is pointless. They've already saved the society for millions by taking responsibility themselves, but they're being eaten away with nothing at all. So if this doesn't work out, they'll be forced to have Petrine in the institution. Petrine, of course, wants the best of her parents. No one can replace mother and father's care, even though there are never such good professionals at an institution. It is reassuring to hear that the Council of State says that parents can get an offer through the fact that there are not only institutions that are the best, although I agree that it needs to be facilitated to enable parents with disabled children to participate in working and social life in the same way as others. But there has to be a choice here for the parents. It is also well documented that the provision of rehabilitation to children fails in both municipal and specialist health services. The right-hand side expects health and social security administrations and municipalities to find good solutions around each family, which are based on equivalence regardless of where they live in the country. These are parents with a lot of care tasks, and they have to be saved for every single day to fight to get the necessary help and support. A principle that Stortinget used a few years ago is the freedom of parents to choose the method of earning their children. In the past, an aggregate increase has indicated that parents must have the freedom to choose between alternative intensive training programmes, but this will no longer be the case with government parties. They say they're positive to freedom of choice, but just for the choices they think are right. Parents possess a unique competence and experience, and the Right will facilitate good, holistic and functional frameworks around the families. It's a demanding task, and I have deep, deep respect for the job they're doing. They have earned all the support and help they need, which they need, and which Velferds-Norway will give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1176	What made me take the floor again was what the Council of State said, and what the representative Kari Henriksen said. The councils said that it seemed as if the opposition thought that the best thing that could happen was that parents stopped working. I want to stay a little bit at that particular point. It is easy to point out concrete examples of what has happened and that can tell you a little bit about what the challenge is. One example that we saw in the Evening Post and in the Friend of the Fatherland in winter was a mother who wanted to be home with her child, but she did not receive any care allowance after no care allowance was given anymore. That's because she had to go to work and work with the exact same thing she would do with her good. The irony here is pretty big, but it's also very tragic that one has arrangements that are like this. That's why I'm not satisfied with a set of selections, or that one should look at it and not adopt anything by the "hop and jump" method, as it was called. It's not about jumping and jumping, and it's not about adopting anything in a short time. What we're talking about is following up on what's been discussed before. That is why I am also responding to the representative, Mr Henriksen, who says that we will have delivered quickly. She says she can guarantee that the Labour Party will follow up, that it will be better, and that it will go quickly. A strategy plan for families with children with disabilities was presented in 2005. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs alerts in connection with the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs. S. No 150 for 2006–2007 that they should return during the year, i.e. in 2007. We haven't seen anything since. I can't say I'm very happy. Another example is BPA, user-controlled personal assistance. The Cooperation Government – Right, Left and Christian People’s Party – decided in 2005 that this system should be legally established. In 2007, this was sent by the Ministry of Health and Health. The vast majority of hearing authorities said they were positive, but there has been nothing to do with it, except that it is shown that it is going to be part of the Cooperation Reform. After hearing previous debates on the cooperation reform, there may be a communication on interaction, health or something. We don't know what it is. That's why I'm very concerned about whether the measures are coming. Therefore, I had hoped for a much more positive approach to the proposals that came in the fall, which we had plenty of time to look at, and one could have managed to land on good attitudes and decisions, which had helped the children and the parents who just wanted to be home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1191	It is important for a government and for a growth to be active drivers in order to improve services. I believe that this government has started a lot of work just because one has seen that there are complicated relationships between individuals, around families and around systems that need to be cleaned up. I can also be very impatient about many of the arrangements, because you know that there are families who live their everyday lives who need to get solutions quickly. But sometimes if one does things too quickly, a person likes to throw something out with the bath water, so that one gets worse solutions. We've seen that when things go too fast, it can be because we don't get a good enough basis to find good solutions that suit everyone. So, as representatives here have also said, for many, this arrangement works well. If we're going to change that, at least we have to make sure that we change it so that those that work well for today don't get worse. That is why I think it is important that it is done thoroughly. But I fully agree that you should be impatient. We agree with the committee, I feel, that this should go as fast as possible, but I believe that it cannot go at the expense of quality, and I think that is the best predictability we can give to the families that are struggling today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1198	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1214	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1223	The size will now deal with the National Audit Office’s study of the financial management of our healthcare companies. The Committee has conducted open consultations on the matter with the Trade Union, the Norwegian Confederation of Nurses, the Norwegian Medical Association, the Directors of the regional health companies, the former Minister of Health and Care Sylvia Brustad and the current Minister of Health and Care Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen. The opinion shows that there is a great deal of agreement in the Committee on the matter, and only in a few comments is the shared view. I'm assuming that the parties here are briefing on their views. I think it is worth stressing that the Riksrevision has carried out a comprehensive and thorough investigation, which provides both a good basis for the Storting to assess the situation and gives a good indication of where the effort needs to be directed in order to improve governance. The national audit has highlighted the issues by means of interviews, document analysis and a questionnaire for health companies. In order to examine the financial management of health establishments, written documentation of relevant procedures and guidelines has also been obtained. During the period 2002–08, the operating costs of health establishments increased sharply. The total operating costs of regional health enterprises increased from SEK 57 billion in 2002 to DKK 87 billion in 2008. Some of the growth in operating costs is due to the fact that regional health enterprises have been given new tasks, but taking into account the new tasks, there has nevertheless been an annual real growth in operating costs of between 1 and 4 pst. during this period. In 2009, more than DKK 100 billion were allocated to the specialist health service. The Committee considers that the National Audit Office’s study identifies a number of shortcomings in the management and control of the use of resources in healthcare companies, and in view of this, those actors in health care establishments were invited to open consultation. Regional health enterprises had an accumulated deficit of DKK 25 billion between 2002 and 2008. The deviation from the management requirements of the owners was 700 million in 2008. NOK, and then after the Storting had granted 500 million. kr. An overall committee states in its opinion that it considers it unacceptable that, year after year, health businesses have failed to adapt to the financial framework. The Committee also notes that expectations of additional appropriations have contributed to undermining respect for the budgetary process and thereby hampering the transition. The employees’ organisations are now expressing that such expectations are gone and that such conditions will not affect further operations. The National Audit Office’s study shows that many health establishments do not start the budgetary process early enough to identify, plan and implement conversion measures in order to give effect from the beginning of the financial year. In this context, the Committee notes that during the Committee’s consultation, representatives of staff are calling for better anchoring at all levels, better predictability and long-termity in the budgetary process. The Committee has noted that both regional health establishments and health establishments wish to improve the predictability and long-term of the owner and that late dispatch of the mission document is a major cause of non-coordination. On the part of the government parties, we are pleased that this is a matter that has been addressed, and we assume that good solutions are being found in this context. An overall committee has noted that the financial management of health establishments has improved significantly in recent years and that the forecast is positive in the future. The Committee is not aware of the accounts for 2009 but notes that representatives of the board of directors at the hearing said that the 2009 forecasts show that Health Norway is on an overall financial balance and thus meets the owner’s financial performance targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1249	As the rapporteur pointed out, the National Audit Office’s study of the financial management of healthcare companies reveals significant deficiencies in governance and control. The following may be mentioned: an accumulated deficit of 25 billion SEK significant deficit in budgetary discipline an unculture by the fact that there have been expectations of additional appropriations, so that in practice budgets have been disregarded record penetration of managers, half of health care providers have changed Director, and 15 out of 19 companies have changed Director of Economic Affairs in the period since the beginning of the budgetary process of non-participation of employees and managers at lower levels; etc. etc. Overall, the Progress Party believes that this documents a sector with major governance shortcomings. The Progress Party is a party that is more than willing to lend money to strengthen the health sector, but we are also a party that requires good management, good governance and budgets. We find it unacceptable that health businesses have not adapted over several years to the financial framework. The sector has been run by the government of Stoltenberg, by former State Council Sylvia Brustad in substantial parts of the period for which the report we are dealing with today applies. In addition, it can be noted that a significant majority of the members of the boards of regional enterprises come from the red-green parties. The mapping of the Progress Party shows that 19 ordinary board members have their background from the red-green parties against ten from the non-socialist side. On this basis, it is clear where the responsibility for the situation lies, it lies with the red-green parties. The National Audit Office's report suggests that questions should be asked about how to organise Health Norway. It is pointed out here that large and important sectors of society, such as police, defence and Nav, are organised in a way that makes responsibilities and governance clearer. I would also like to point out that the representative of the Norwegian Medical Association in the hearing expressed concerns about the proposal to lower the unit price element of the intervention finance scheme to 30 pst. The Progress Party shares this concern. I record that both regional health businesses and health businesses generally want better predictability and long-term ownership. Late dispatch of mission documents is a major cause of non-coordination, it is claimed. I have to point out here that the Progress Party has proposed an annual hospital proposal according to the model of the municipal bill, which will satisfy many of the health companies' long-term planning needs. In the hearing we had on this matter, I noticed that it was claimed that the governance of health companies has improved significantly in recent years, and that the 2009 forecasts are positive. On the other hand, I record headlines in the media that indicate that there are still major challenges in the sector, and we in the Progress Party will therefore follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1292	I broadly share the conclusions of the rapporteur in his statement. I want – with the address of the last speaker, from the Progress Party – to remember that it was this party that in the Stortinget last period, under its then head of the health fraction, secured the majority of the governance we now have in the hospitals. This party is now the strongest critic of the system that you personally agreed to introduce. It is a cross of thought – not for the majority of the Stortinget, but for the Advance Party. It is positive, the Government now reports, that the attitude to respect budgets of regional health enterprises and underlying entities has improved. That's all there is to give honor to. At the same time, however, the Committee notes that efforts are now being made to improve the mission document, ensuring good reporting procedures, etc., that this has been done in the right direction. But then the committee says, ‘The Committee will, however, stress that it has taken an unacceptable long time to have financial management and other key parts of the management system in place.’ It's with the address of other than the current Council of State, but there's just as much reason to notice this for the current government, who's been responsible all along. So a few comments on what emerged during the consultation at the request of health businesses, to get the basis for a more long-term budgeting. It is a wish that I can only partly understand, because no sector has then implemented increased budgets each year, under changing governments, such as the health sector. It can be seen from a 30-year perspective – that is, also when health businesses had a different governance model – that there is no sector in society that has had as much growth as this sector in the post-war period. No one has any less reason to complain about predictability than the health sector, because each year they have increased budgets — substantially increased budgets. But I understand them at one point, and that is also why a majority in the Committee – that is, the parties Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – says in a note that there is a reason for the Government to bring a case before the Storting in the spring session, i.e. before the budget for the autumn, about any changes to the funding arrangements for health companies, so as to improve the planning opportunities for businesses. I would like to hear the Council of State answer as to why this is so difficult. The local government sector is in a situation where it is informed of an important framework for its economy in the spring, but also of changes in the transmission systems, whether it is planned. We are not going that far in this comment, but are asking that health businesses in the spring – it can be done in a separate message, or it can be done in the revised budget – be notified of any changes. That, I think, is a minimum requirement for long-term budgeting. I have to add that it is positive that the letter of assignment has been obtained from the Ministry of Health and Health at an earlier date than before. The Government shall be in favour of this, and there is a development in the right direction. Then I have a couple of questions finally to the Council of State. During the consultation, it was found that health businesses have approached the departments together and said that they would like to coordinate larger purchases, and that they see opportunities to save money in this way. The department then answers that it looks positive, but you will wait and see how coordination goes in one of the regional health enterprises – the largest. I would like to ask if the Council of State – I had almost said – has got a little bit more speed since the hearing, because this proposal is no reason to wait when healthcare companies themselves record it. When they themselves make a contribution to reducing costs, I had expected the department to grab it a little bit more than just waiting and seeing. Finally, I have registered as positive that the Ministry of Renewal has now received an analysis of different government sectors based on the ‘best practice’ principle. Why, then, is it that some health businesses, some police districts, some colleges and universities operate so much more reasonably than others? Can we learn from those who are most reasonable? This method has been used in many other large-scale countries to reduce costs. My question is, what will the Ministry of Health do to challenge the health businesses that run the most expensive to follow the practice of those who operate the most reasonably, i.e. the ‘best practice’ principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1316	I agree with the case manager's thorough clarification of the matter, but would like to make a few comments, among other things. to what the representative Knudsen from the Progress Party said. Because I think it is very strange that the Progress Party, which was in favour of this reform, is now talking to her, in the form that they thought it was good that the Red-Green Government now has more political governance – the opposite of what they wanted when the reform was introduced. Of course, the red-green government is responsible, as Knudsen says – absolutely. But I want to remind you of what happened a few times in the budgetary procedure when Per-Kristian Foss was Minister of Finance. Then there was a lot of trouble about health care, and the argument led to bills on additional vows. Then there was one party that did not want political governance in these regimes, but that was actually going to meet all these demands that were ‘out on the street’ – and that was the Progress Party. A train in a way decided that if they were just yelling high enough about excess, they would get money. That's not what I call political governance, that's what I call populism. But that's okay. So a couple of words finally. I am pleased that we are taking back more of the political governance, that the Council of State is now going to follow up much more closely. I think that's absolutely necessary. I also think we should listen to the trade unions and add them, which are very clear that they need to be more involved. When you have a goal, a few trade unions, they have to join their organisations, so that they can participate in and anchor the policy to be pursued by health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1325	The accumulated accounting deficit of health enterprises for the period 2002-2008 was DKK 25 billion. The majority of this was run by the owner. Well NOK 10 billion is due to uncovered accounting credits, while NOK 5 billion is due to appropriations for increased pension costs that were not included. The cumulative corrected deficit is therefore approx. 10 billion kroner. Still, we are talking about a significant amount that contributes greatly to the weakening of financial freedom and poorer ability of regional health businesses to implement planned investments. Regional health enterprises exceeded the management requirements of the owner every year throughout the period. For example, in 2008 there were: the exceedances of 700 million. kr, despite an additional allocation of 500 million. kr. Supplementary appropriations and subsequent expectations of additional appropriations led to poor budgetary discipline. Let me quote the former state council Sylvia Brustad: ‘But it was subsequently an exercise for some that the one who called the highest was to receive more money from accumulation and government.’ Many aspects of the budgetary process were criticised during the consultation. Although signals were given in advance, the mission document did not exist until two months after the budget decision. In addition, the mission document contained many and detailed objectives, and health businesses claimed that it was impossible to achieve all the objectives simultaneously. Maybe we politicians are more good at making what we want to prioritise than what we want to prioritise down within a given framework. Many leaders call for clearer expectations and a longer-term perspective from the owner. The report shows that budgetary processes were too late to identify, plan and initiate year-round conversion measures. Many savings measures have not been effective until the last six months. Many health entities delegated budgetary responsibilities to managers at the level where the costs were generated, despite the fact that more than half of the same managers thought they had neither competence nor sufficient capacity to manage the economy of the unit. Fortunately, things indicate that evolution is now moving in the right direction. Back in 2007 and 2008, Health Mid-Norway was the only healthcare company that satisfied the owners’ financial management requirements. The 2009 accounts have not been completed, but the forecast shows that Health-Norway together is in a balance sheet and meets the requirement. Differences between health enterprises are also significantly reduced. According to Kolbjørn Almlid, Head of Health Mid-Norway, better budgetary processes, better involvement at all levels and a greater focus on internal control and cost control. The centre party opposed the reform that led to the governmentisation of hospitals. The strong growth of health businesses in operating costs from 2002 to 2008, from SEK 57 billion to DKK 87 billion, suggests that the intention, a more reasonable health care service with more health for each krona, has not in any way been successful. Health bureaucracy has grown, and lack of continuity in governance has been a contributing factor in the lack of financial management. The fact that the management salaries of health enterprises have grown in line with the accumulated deficit is worrying. Are we getting a directorial field in the Norwegian health care system where the closure of surgical wards and maternity wards takes place completely without political treatment? The centre party believes that the business model needs to be evaluated and that hospitals need to be transferred to a regionally selected ownership. We hope that the visit of the State Council of Ström-Erichsen to Scotland, a country that abolished the business model in 2004 and now introduces direct elections to regional health authorities, can serve as an inspiration for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1347	The National Audit Office’s survey covers the years 2002–2008. It's worth noting, because it's a long period, which goes into two different governments. Until 2008, health enterprises have had a higher cost than that on which the Storting granted funds to specialist health services. Overall, the operating results have exceeded the management requirements by approximately DKK 10 billion, or 2 pst. of the revenue available to health care establishments. Even if 2 pst. might seem small, 10 billion dollars is a significant amount. Of course, this is not acceptable. This has been a positive development in the economy of the four regions in recent years. This is due, inter alia, to: increased requirements for financial management, which have been loyally followed up by the boards of regional health establishments and health establishments. The result is that for 2009 we seem to have a small accounting surplus combined for regional health enterprises. One important explanation for this is that the 2009 State budget was realistic in relation to the demands made. The first years after the reform, there were high expectations of reduced waiting times, without reflecting this in the framework conditions. No funds were provided for activity growth in the budgets. This happened only from 2008, when this government in the State budget contributed funds to a fully funded growth in activity. The unfortunate thing about supplementary appropriations is that, as many people have said, there are expectations that future budget exceedances will also be covered by additional appropriations. When we disregard investment funds related to the financial crisis and pandemic, last year no additional funds were allocated. I think this has had a positive – you could say – mission effect. The Ministry has already addressed several of the issues raised by the National Audit Office’s report. This has been done through requirements in the Ministry's management of regional health enterprises over several years. I believe that the governance requirements that have been set have helped to contribute to the good result expected for 2009. The study shows that regional health establishments and health establishments wish to improve predictability and that late dispatch of the mission document is a major cause of non-coordination. This has been addressed. The 2010 mission document was sent for the first time before Christmas – i.e. a week after the adoption of the budget framework by the Stortinget of the regional health establishments. In the mission document, the department of the funds allocated to Stortinget makes available to regional health establishments. The Ministry therefore relies on the budget decisions of the Storting before completing the mission document. Then the representative of Per-Kristian Foss asks why we cannot present a matter on the spring in connection with the revised or municipal proposition – if I interpret it correctly. Obviously, it's always an assessment. We think that's not going to be right. It will be to draw very large parts of the state budget to become a matter of spring, and I can see many other parts of the state budget where one would think that there was an advantage to that kind of predictability. But what is very important is that the signals are given as soon as the budget is clarified – and of course adopted in the Storting – and that there is a good dialogue about it. As Foss himself stresses, almost no sector has had as much predictability as health. In the case of the Stabs and aid project, which was also included, priority will be given in 2010. I have started a work to look at the possibility of establishing a national company for staff and support functions. The aim is to take advantage of the opportunities for coordination and gains inherent in the state ownership of the specialist healthcare service, although I believe that the initial gain will be linked to better services — not financial gain. Regional health enterprises have agreed with many of the points in the Riksrevision report. I have asked that they follow up the report separately. The report shows that the challenges are now primarily at the level of health enterprises, and the report provides useful input into what should now be addressed. Health enterprises are large organisations that are demanding to manage, and changes in culture and attitudes are long-term work. So to this with ‘best practice’, which is clearly an important thing. Now it is not always as easy to compare one hospital with the other – they like different tasks – but here there are comparisons and improvements that go both on economics and on quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1376	I thank you for answering my questions – out of three questions I was satisfied with the answer to one and a half questions. We get to say that is not so bad! I would like to follow up and make a concrete statement, because the Council of State cannot have quite read what we write in the setting. The Council of State may be reassured that a majority of the Committee is a minority in the Grand Duchy. However, I still recommend reading the note, because it says that we ‘ask the government to file a case for the Storting in the spring session on any changes to the financial instruments’ – i.e. not budgetary frameworks. I agree with the Council of State that it would be unacceptable if almost the majority of the budget were to be fixed in the spring – before the Stortinget reached a final decision on the whole of the budget. I think that, as a former Minister of Finance, I have the absolute understanding of that. But what we're asking for here is not. It is not a community proposition for the health sector, but an indication of changes in the financial instruments, so that enterprises can adjust to it. I see that there are not always such changes. But if they come, I have to say that it would be very beneficial for health care companies to know it in May-June rather than October.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1384	Yes, if changes to the financial instruments mean e.g.: changes in effort-driven funding – the proportion to be managed, the proportion to be managed, and the type of change – I fully agree that it is at least important to get it as early as possible. This is where changes are made from year to year – if you don't always change the big devices, you can talk about it. It has also been announced in the context of the cooperation reform, so at least it is a matter for me to assess when that is what is in that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1389	It is the Progress Party that is concerned that we should have more predictability in the health sector, and that we want a similar message that we have for the local economy, about the spring – not the former Minister of Finance party, Right. But I understood the statements of the Council of State there that she has fundamental contradictions towards creating that predictability, because then one would risk tying up, or at least signaling some kind of bonding of, large portions of the budget early in the phase. We see from the National Audit Office's report that the health companies that succeed in financial management are the ones that have the good, long-term processes internally so that they can start early enough with the economic planning to make the transition. Is it really the opinion of the Council of State that this is the principle starting point, that we should not signal the commitment of budgetary resources too early, which is destroying the practical results?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1396	We have not gone in to make a kind of community proposition for the health sector about spring, as I also said in my post. There are several reasons for this. The main reason is that it will bind up large parts of the state budget. There will be other sectors that will also have a legitimate desire to get into such a position, and we believe that, as the budgetary process has been set up, that would not be right. So I fully agree with the representative that it is important for health companies to have predictability and to have a continuous pressure on conversion. I feel that they do, and we have such a close dialogue with health companies that they get the guidance signals as soon as they exist. And the mission paper we have ambitions to present as soon as the Storting has adopted the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1403	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1408	I didn't intend to extend the debate significantly, but I have just a small comment to the representatives of Foss and Langeland, who in their contributions had visited the Progress Party, and who are of course entitled to the fact that the Progress Party is critical of today's system. They are also right that we voted in favour of today's system in its time. Now it should be stressed that that vote was part of the negotiations. It was part of a settlement that was the basis for supporting that model, and it was not our primary view that led to the voting in that case. As representatives Foss and Langeland also know, it is rare to have a settlement through their primary wish. Now the representative Foss is both an experienced and very skilled politician, but I guess even he can't say with his hand on his heart that in all the settlements he's been on, he's got 100 pst. of its primary positions. So our view is, of course, that of our programme and our many proposals in the Health and Care Committee in Stortinget, and that is something other than what the conciliation, on which we were involved in in our day, is going on. Now, our criticism is not just about organisation, but also – and at least equally important – about the deficits that have arisen, about the lack of budgetary discipline that has been seen, about major problems faced by leaders, and about the challenges facing the budgetary process, which were just mentioned in the change of lines between the Council of State and the representative Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1419	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2230]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1435	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1444	Document 3:2 on control of the management of state companies for 2008 has this time been particularly concerned with the following areas, namely the follow-up to the Government's own ownership notification, which is one of the following: ‘The Governing Board should have a plan for its own work and actively pursue its own development of competence.’ And on the other hand, ‘The activities of the Board shall be evaluated.’ – i.e. the owner is evaluated, i.e. in this case by the different departments which stand as owner. At this point, the Riksrevision's criticism is very clear: little has happened, bordering on nothing, in this area after the ownership message was dealt with in Stortinget. Politically, I can basically explain that the ownership message did not have this as a primary purpose at all, but was promoted to explain why the Government did not accept active ownership, but was in favour of the ownership that has always been practised more or less. That was the political outcome of the treatment, and that's why this issue of governance evaluation has obviously gone into the forgotten book for most people. So when the committee says it'll ask the government, the present state councils, notice it and bring it on, it's to the head of the government. It says: «The Committee will ask the Government to report back to the Storting on the systematic evaluation of the work of the Boards and the follow-up to the Report on St.meld. [[2006-2007]] No 13 As far as I can see, this must be a responsibility of those who have submitted the notification, namely the Ministry of Industry, to the Minister of Industry. In addition, this document has covered a number of areas where ownership control has been controlled. I'll briefly comment on these. I'm leaving the health care companies, because it's been dealt with in a previous debate today. I go to the post office, where the criticism is largely that when the post office was allowed to do something other than post, it was a prerequisite that it should be to support the postal services, i.e. to make money on it. It was a prerequisite for the Post to expand in completely different areas than regular postal services, and that has not happened. The Committee is concerned, and it should be particularly concerned about a Minister for Transport a few days before the Government's annual budgetary conference, because this is where money is lost, for example. has not disposed of the business which could have been done. In other words, there is no reason why the State should operate data services or bidding services, whether by ship, bicycle, car or whatever. Then there is a criticism by the Minister of Culture, according to the same model in and of itself. The NRK was given the opportunity to create NRK Assets in order to be able to sell so-called ancillary services, i.e. to sell sent applications that could get a larger spread. The economic results in this area have also not been achieved which contribute to the strengthening of public broadcasting. It is the task of the Council of State to conduct public broadcasting, not to provide ancillary services. However, the additional service was justified in strengthening the primary objective, and it has not. In this area, too, the Committee supports the Riksrevision, which considers that: ‘weak returns may mean that the capital increase carried out can be seen as a form of subsidisation of NRK Assets’. [[...]] [[...]] It was not meant to be when the Storting gave such a grant. The Committee also points out that the activities of SIVA contribute little to innovation and that a greater focus on start-ups would have improved the target. This is all the reason for putting a big exclamation mark on it, because, in a previous statement to the Grand Duchy, the Prime Minister has stressed that the speed of entrepreneurial activity in Norway is a prerequisite for future economic growth. He pointed out – as far as I remember – that one in seven jobs currently in the private sector was not there five years ago. This is, of course, an impressive figure in many ways, and this speed of business must continue. When state instruments do not help to support this, which was the goal of the state enterprise, there is something wrong. Finally, the Committee also points to the criticism – and here I would like to quote – that the Riksrevision comes with, and the Committee gives its full support here. It's about Avinor. «In the opinion of the National Audit Office, it is a legitimacy problem for the State when a department that owns a company accepts a breach of the pollution law.» Joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1487	This setting concerns the Riksrevision report to the Stortinget on the outcome of the control of the management of companies in which the State owns. In fact, there are 39 wholly owned companies, 43 jointly owned companies, four regional health companies, which we have debated in the previous case, six state companies, five companies organised by separate law and 26 student partnerships. I really didn't know that we had 26 student relations in Norway, but obviously we have. In recent years the audit of state companies has been part of Document No. 1 from the Riksrevision to Stortinget. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the State companies are now separated in a separate document. The background was that it was considered that the release of State activities should not significantly weaken the control of the Grand Duchy and the National Audit Office by the use of state resources. Although new institutions are set up outside the ordinary administration system, they must not reduce the importance of performing important societal tasks and performing important control. The overall governance and control of government tasks must remain in the Storting, regardless of how government services are organised. That is why the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has asked for this as a separate document in the Stortinget. The so-called Frøiland Committee and the Control Committee considered that the Riksrevision’s control of exempted activities also had to include management control, in addition to the ownership control that is part of the current company control. This is being updated not least through the creation of the new health businesses, which I would like to emphasise also in relation to the previous debate. In the present position, the Committee has taken note of the Riksrevision's criticism of some of the companies and supports the criticism that has emerged. I also refer to the statements made by the President-in-Office. Lack of follow-up creates a significant risk of the loss of large values by the State and of inadequate care for important societal tasks. I'm not going to go into the individual companies or companies. The health companies were dealt with in the previous case, and the rapporteur has gone through the various cases that have been raised by the National Audit Office. But I would like to say that, however, it can be stated that questions can be asked about whether the business model is really suitable for ensuring the necessary control and management of the management of large government funds for our health care. It is possible to have state ownership without having a business model. But it is a debate that does not belong here today. With regard to the exercise of the country’s ownership policy, the ownership notification focuses on assessing the work of the boards in a good and systematic manner. The Management Board shall ensure that the company's activities are subject to prudential control and that the company is managed in accordance with the framework and expectations given by the owner. The National Audit Office has examined how the departments follow up the governments of state companies and whether they function properly. In 2008, the National Audit Office found weaknesses in the achievement of objectives in several sectors, as we have heard, among others. in the regional health establishments, and the Committee broadly supports the criticism that has emerged.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1502	It is not necessary to extend this debate much longer because the case-rapporteur and the representative, Mr Nybakk, have given a good account of what the Committee's position is – individually. I would like to thank the rapporteur for bringing together the Committee on Very Critical Comments in support of the Riksrevision report. I would also like to mention that this is a good follow-up from the National Audit Office to the expectations of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on updating company control. So there are 124 establishments within this audit round. The main thing is that it's basically good, but there are some critical comments. Among the main points found by one person is the lack of uniform ownership management and the question of whether the Storting is adequately informed of part of the activities of these companies and of the Ministry's ownership. This is how – as the previous speaker also said – the lack of follow-up and governance leads to a significant risk of large losses for the state and the absence of important societal tasks. As the previous speaker said, the business model is not up to discussion in this case, so I will not comment on it any further than what was done in the previous case. But it is worth noting that there is nothing in this revision that suggests that tasks in general are being solved worse by using a different form of administration than the ordinary government that is directly under the Ministry. I would also like to point out that the Committee is unanimous in all its comments on this matter, including in its critical comments, and there are clear indications and expectations from the Committee in some areas. I assume that the departments covered by the criticism of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs take note of it and implement the measures necessary to improve it. Thus, we also expect the Riksrevision to come back to the follow-up of the departments in the next audit round in relation to the criticism that has been voiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1513	The ministries receive limited information on how the boards operate and carry out their work, says the National Audit Office's report on the management of state companies. This is objectionable. Therefore, it is also appropriate that the Committee in its position asks the Government to report back to the Stortinget with a systematic evaluation of the governance of our state companies. As the national audit report reveals, the lack of follow-up poses a risk of the loss of high values by the State and the fact that important societal tasks are not properly carried out. We appreciate that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in its opinion describes concrete measures that can improve this follow-up to governance in state companies. Our departments should, as a general rule, operate an overall governance, not a detailed management of the companies. But as the report also says, the ministries have a responsibility for meeting the expectations at the bottom. Issues related to state ownership must always be accompanied by questions about why and how. Why do we still need state ownership in a given company, and how should that be done? The centre party has a pragmatic view of what the state should own by enterprises. The purpose of state ownership may differ depending on the company concerned. There are many purposes that legitimise state-owned whole-time or partially owned enterprises. Infrastructure companies are examples of enterprises that, in the view of the Centre Party, fulfil the purpose of State ownership, such as: Avinor, Telenor, Statkraft and Posten. When Minister of Economic Affairs Trond Giske recently stated to the Business community that it would assess sales in individual companies and to reduce the total level of state ownership, it is not necessarily negative in the view of the Centre Party. It is important that we, in the companies in which the state owns, make clear expectations of the companies and monitor the work of the boards properly. Maybe we'll get fewer companies, in total, where the state is inside the owner's side. But where the state sees itself served to be the owner, the follow-up from the departments to the restitution should be closer than it is today. The State which owns shall not, in the opinion of the Centre Party, act in such a way as to make it appear by others that companies in which the State is situated on the ownership side appear as directors of wages. I would like to stress that when I talk about wages and salaries here, the total remuneration is included through wages and salaries, any bonuses and other benefits that companies have to offer to their employees. As politicians, in the view of the Centre Party, we need to be more daring to ask questions about whether all the benefits offered to employees in some enterprises are really necessary to operate the enterprise and to keep competent and committed employees, and the relevance of these benefits to the company's operations. We are still seeing examples of governments in government-owned enterprises giving high wage increases to management. I would like to point out, for example: within health establishments, where more and more are now serving than the Prime Minister. There may be reasons for this, but the Central Party believes that the weakened direct popularly elected control of our hospitals is an important reason why this has developed this way over time. On the other hand, it is no longer unusual to record that former elected representatives, by virtue of being directors of enterprises, defend such high salaries for senior management. The central party will point out that there is an unfortunate development that more and more senior staff serve more than the prime minister. The National Audit Office’s report criticises regional health companies, Posten, NRK, SIVA and Avinor. These are specifically mentioned in the comments of a Joint Committee. Therefore, the feedback from an aggregate increase is that the departments have to provide better information on how the boards operate and carry out their work, so that the values of the community are well managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1530	I think the National Auditorate is doing a particularly important job of passing on how the state manages the ownership of its companies. I can say that we have noticed the case spokesperson Foss's call, the two councillors present in the Chamber. So we're going to get the feedback back to the relevant person in relation to the follow-up. The National Audit Office believes that in several areas of state companies there may be a need for improvement. Let me make some comments about the findings of the National Audit Office, both in relation to Avinor and Post. Avinor gets its own comment because of high cost growth and lack of efficiency. I share by far the Riksrevision's conclusions. There is a need for cost-effectiveness, and this is also underlined in the last two owner messages for the company. It is quite clear that Avinor must make operations more efficient. However, I would like to point out that the return requirements imposed and referred to by the National Audit Office do not take into account the fact that Avinor has to invest in more than 40 non-businessly profitable airports. It is Airports that are particularly important for communication in the districts and that tell us that Avinor is taking care of a particular important societal task. The Ministry has carried out an evaluation, which aims to compare the effectiveness of Avinor with that of other suppliers. We'll also see if it's possible to develop a more realistic return target for Avinor. Questions have been raised about undercovering air traffic controllers. A specific program, "Take-off 05" was stopped. In this migration programme, ‘Take-off 05’, there were three new coals of air traffic controllers in 2003–2004 — which meant a decline of between 45 and 60 air traffic controllers. There were also 20 air traffic controllers who chose to leave Avinor in connection with this program. Avinor is now working very hard to get enough air traffic controllers in place as quickly as possible. They expect to have full coverage of air traffic controllers in 2014. It's also a matter that we follow very closely. Similarly, it is with the environmental work. Some of the things that have been mentioned are due to the fact that we have not actually received the necessary permission locally in the county. There is also something that the department should follow up. So to the Post. I have noticed that the Committee believes that the Post's wage development in the purchased enterprises must be better followed up. This has been done in the most recent period — a current assessment of the financial situation of the company. 2008-2009 has been demanding years, both for the Post and for owners. The 2009 result is better than expected. But here we follow closely, because we're concerned that the main task for the Post is still to provide universal postal services of good quality and reasonable price to the people of the whole country. Then the Post has turned into a limited liability company in order to have the opportunity to exploit the areas that could be for a company to operate economically well in an expanding market – while still providing good and reasonable postal services to the Norwegian population. I look forward to making arrangements for a big message where we can discuss the Post's commitment even more closely. Then I have a little message from the local and regional minister that concerns SIVA. SIVA is complicated to evaluate. What the Riksrevision also points to there is something she takes into account in the further work, and the likes fall an important follow-up to the Minister of Food and Trade. Finally, a follow-up case involving NSB. I can only report to Stortinget that there is also a matter that we follow very closely from the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1545	I agree with those representatives, and perhaps in particular the rapporteur, who raised this issue with ownership management and company follow-up, that this is an important matter. I just want to say that with regard to the follow-up of regional health businesses, at least I feel that they have a very close follow-up from the department. That egg follow-up is tight. For the evaluation of the Boards, it has been more prepared for its own evaluation. But this is something we want on the agenda in 2010 to ensure a good enough evaluation of the governments and follow-up. The follow-up is, as I said, regular and good. I don't think we would have been in the situation we are now in, where, after all, 2009 seems to have balanced health businesses. I hear questions are asked about the health company model, and you can definitely do that. It is absolutely important to discuss governance, but at the same time I would say that as it has been practised, as it has been followed up in recent years with an ever-closer follow-up of the boards, by the management of regional health companies, we have succeeded better in financial management. In one way or another, we need to find a good governance of a sector that is 100 billion DKK and 100 000 employees in the specialist health service. I would also like to stress that in order to meet the health challenges of the future, the requirement for specialisation and the requirement to meet large diagnostic groups, I believe that the health company model – of course with continued good follow-up – can be a good model. So I want to say that some results, which we might not talk so much about or maybe not remember so much, have become very much better, and it's about waiting times. Although we're busy getting the waiting times down and worried when it's not going in the right direction, it's something we have a lot of focus on, but the waiting times in patient treatment are significantly improved, and the effectiveness of patient treatment has increased. I want to underline that. So to something that's been taken up by the National Audit Office, which is about the priority rule. It has been practised differently in regional health establishments and has resulted in different waiting times for treatment of the same disease in different regions. The Directorate-General for Health has therefore developed guidance on the assignment of rights and the deadline for starting health care, and I have emphasised in the 2010 mission paper that priority guides should be used to ensure a consistent assessment of the right to necessary health care. It is another matter that is also important, as the Riksrevision has mentioned, and this is what goes on coding. Keeping the most correct medical records is important. It's important for economic reasons, but it's also important to know what kind of patients we're treating, and what will be the need for the future. We're going to continue to work on that, and we're going to take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2230]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1574	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1583	The size has set the objective of ensuring that the operation and maintenance of the road network contribute to the safe and secure availability of road users throughout the year and that this must be carried out with the correct quality and timeliness. In the Riksrevision report, Document No. 3:16 for 2008-2009, which saw the operation and maintenance of the road network in 2008, a number of shortcomings have been identified in relation to this objective. The report identifies a lack of quality of operation, a lack of reporting on the state of operation and a lack of management and an overview of the operational status of the road network. Furthermore, the Riksaudition has identified a lack of evaluation of an area of governance challenges, a low level of control and poor follow-up in many contracts, different practices of financial penalties, poor reporting by entrepreneurs, weaknesses in the evaluation of entrepreneurs as well as weak competition among providers in many places. In the light of this massive criticism, the Control and Constitutional Committee decided to hold a hearing on the matter on 8 February this year, inviting both the former and the current Minister for Transport and Road Director. In addition, the Committee subscribed to a number of user organisations and invited them to make written submissions in the case. The Committee received input from Norway's Lastebileier Association, the Swedish Transport Association, the Norwegian Motorcycle Union, the Norwegian Automobile Association, the Cyclists National Association, the Car Action and the Road Traffic Information Council. User organisations largely adhered to the criticism made in the National Audit Office’s report. Some recommended that, in addition, a much wider and more thorough study be carried out even in the case of regular maintenance. There was also concern from several organisations that the so-called regional reform could lead to major differences in the operation and maintenance of the road network as well as further pulverisation of responsibility. Several of the Committee's recordings also called for the establishment of independent roadside supervision, which must be responsible for ensuring the safety and accessibility of road users, and for monitoring the proper follow-up of the intentions of the legislation and policy decisions. In addition, some pointed out a lack of competition in functional contracts and called for a fragmentation of the contracts. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport would consider this as one of several measures to strengthen competition. The cost of using functional contracts has, of course, been a topic during the Committee's proceedings, and this was also the focus of the consultation. In this respect, questions were also raised to the road manager whether this had been a reasonable form of organisation, and whether there had been an appropriate way of ensuring operation and maintenance, where he replied that this had been essentially a beneficial model. The Ministry of Transport has also engaged Dovre Group AS to evaluate the outsourcing and the report is expected to be presented during the spring. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has also strongly endorsed the criticisms of the National Audit Office. The evaluation by the road authorities of the State on the poor performance of the operational and maintenance work shows a result that is far from satisfactory. The SINTEF study of winter and summer operations on selected routes shows a number of deviations from the requirements set out in the contracts. And a unanimous committee is doubtful whether the quality of the operational work is sufficient to contribute to the good and safe promotion of road users all year round. Reporting requirements laid down by the Ministry of Transport have not been met in any way, nor does the Ministry receive reporting that provides systematic feedback on governance signals related to functional contracts. In addition, the majority of the Committee finds it very unsatisfactory that the Ministry has not obtained specific reports on the follow-up to road safety in relation to operation and maintenance, in particular on routes of many and serious accidents. The majority also consider that insufficient and insufficient reporting provides a basis for asking questions about whether the Ministry of Transport and the Road Administration has sufficient management information to assess whether the operation and maintenance of the road network takes place in accordance with established standards. It was also not very encouraging that the Minister of Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, at the moment, was not aware of the graceful state of things before the Riksrevision report came. This in itself proves that communication and reporting practices were far from good enough, as confirmed by the Council of State. It is necessary to have an overview and information of the state and quality of operation and maintenance of the road network in order to provide relevant and necessary guidance signals. Unfortunately, this has not been done, which is completely unacceptable. I therefore expect the Ministry of Transport to take this criticism very seriously and to remedy the situation. Finally, I would like to point out that both the current and former Minister of Transport and the Road Director pointed out the fact that the annual budgets were a major part of the reason why the objective of good and safe accessibility for road users was not achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1611	The road network is something we're all concerned about, whether we live or travel in town or built. The road network is in a way the blood vessels of society. If the road network breaks down, everything else stops. In our long-distance country are the access routes to the airport, train station, boat port, etc. all necessary for the use of those offers. For us who live in a part of the country that doesn't have a train offer, the road is the only alternative to land-host transport. That is why road maintenance and road standards are also important for all of us and our communities and for our ability to participate in society. Among these, it is very important that road safety be given a high focus. I record that someone believes that the money for transportation must be spent in those parts of the country where there are the most people living. However, the value creation that takes place in the districts is often forgotten, which makes it essential for production to take place. Therefore, a good name is essential for all of us, and therefore no one can disagree with the objective of ensuring that the operation and maintenance of the road network contribute to good and safe accessibility for road users throughout the year, and that this must be carried out with the right quality and time. The state road system was responsible for the operation and maintenance of the road network until 2003. This was then put on the market, with the aim that it would give more money to our roads. I think that in this case we must be able to say that competitive outsourcing and privatisation do not always produce the best effects and results. When I read the National Audit Office's report on the operation and maintenance of the road network, I ask a lot of questions about whether the maintenance of the road network has become more efficient and less bureaucratic after the conversion that took place in 2003. In this connection, I would like to mention, among other things: refer to the open hearing, where former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete replied to questions about how the maintenance had been after the conversion: ‘It is at least difficult to see that the competitive environment has had a positive impact on maintenance.’ I also think that we should note the input that has come from Norway's Feds, NLF, where they, among other things. questions whether the winter operation of roads in Norway is at all suitable for the outsourcing of competition. At the same time, according to the signals from the NLF companies, it appears that it is worse to provide services to contractors than it was to the production departments of the State Road Service. These are the views of a very tone-setting and experienced organization that we should notice. I am aware that the implementation of this conversion in Norway took place very quickly. In Norway, we spent only one year on conversion, while in Sweden, 17 years were used on a similar conversion. And in Finland, ten years were spent. Could this have affected the outcome of implementation to some extent? I am pleased that an external evaluation is now being carried out in this comprehensive case, and I believe that the Storting must be open to change what is not working. The Minister for Transport said in the hearing that she is concerned about a situation in which we are going to start reshaping and where several thousand workers are to be thrown into uncertainty. This is a concern I share, but at the same time we have to be willing to look at what, overall, is the best thing for all parties in the long term, and make the changes that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1633	SV is very concerned that we should have a good road maintenance. We're not always so busy building many new motorways, but having a proper road maintenance, not least in the districts, is especially important for my party. Let me add that as president of the Lion Hill MC Club I know that real maintenance is vital. If there is bad maintenance, gravel or hole in the road, it may mean death for a part of those running two-wheelers. So this has to be real. SV was opposed to postponing competition and creating the merger contract system we currently have. We were told that this would not result in us getting more out of the service. We thought that it would be poorer maintenance, not better, by putting on such a model. This was what I meant, among other things. Because we heard what people said, that they thought it was very good to have this guard, to whom they could call when there was a problem. Then came the passerby and tidy up in the surrounding area. Now we've got a bureaucratic system, where a person who doesn't like to get answers at all before he has at least filled out some forms about who to do what and who to do it. We've seen a lot of examples of one that can't do the problems. Norwegian Motorcycle Union had a good example of that, when it was actually a fatal accident because things took so long. So the system that we have today doesn't work that way with the people who adopted it. They wanted and thought that when you got this, you would get a reduction of 15 pst, but one would also get a quality improvement. We're going to come back to this, but I think we can already see that the measures that the bourgeois parties had in this case are not achieved. The National Audit has gone through the system that we have, that is, this market-based system, and said it doesn't work either. One of the measures is that we have to have even more supply police, people go around and see that things are done, that is, even more bureaucracy than the National Audit Office recommends. I would recommend that we consider whether we have actually given road maintenance the right medicine, or whether we need to bring in a new system that works. I think so. Then it asks if you don't have to go back to doing this important job in public. We see that the Road Manager also complains on this system, that they can't make it work. Users are also very clear. Norsk Lastebileier Förbund, as the representative named Arnesen, is very clear about this. They say that winter drift is not suitable for supply – they are very clear about it. Then they also say in a previous statement that this system works so that the less you do, the more you think. Your system is a system that does not lead to better road maintenance, although somebody can spend more money. I mean now with the negative results we see when we've got a 40 pst. increase in costs and that road maintenance has not improved, that there is reason to look forward to the external evaluation that Dovre Group is now going to do, so that we can see whether this is a system that we can walk away from and go back to the system that people actually thought was not so bad. It is a system in which we do not have the competition and supply policy that the bourgeois politicians provided in 2002–2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1648	In 2003, a major shift was made in the state road system, and maintenance tasks previously carried out by the Road Administration were gradually subject to competition through so-called day-to-day operating and minor maintenance contracts. The centre party was skeptical about the competitive outsourcing of the State Road Service when it was implemented. The National Audit Office’s report shows that the objective of the reform, reduced costs, has not been achieved in any way. On the contrary, expenditure has increased at the same time as road maintenance standards have fallen. Expenditure went down somewhat in the first round of tenders, but rose dramatically when the contracts were renewed. Contracts renewed in 2009 received a price increase of 44 pst. At the same time, it was necessary to provide greater resources on the construction side. With over 100 functional contracts on 5000 pages each, it goes without saying that there was a need for resources to get in place and not least to follow up the contracts properly. An evaluation of the 2007-2008 season shows a lack of work carried out for more than half of the contracts. The national audit also highlights the lack of reporting on the state of operation of the road network, the low level of control and the lack of follow-up. This does not ensure that the road system meets road users’ expectations for good and safe accessibility throughout the year and does not provide sufficient management information. The first contracts to be concluded were mainly fixed-price contracts. More recent contracts now present more risks to the country in terms of quantities. I think that will have a positive impact particularly on winter maintenance, as it will no longer be as profitable to wait for the longest, for example. by breaking. As of 1 January, the county has been responsible for a much larger part of the road network, which means greater financial liabilities in the functional contracts. The Road Director explained good cooperation with the county councils in advance of the regional reform. The centre party believes that a common road management system for county roads and highways, better localisation and greater proximity to decision-makers will provide both better quality road maintenance and better resource use. The solution may not be to reverse this entire competitive outsourcing process now, which would create new uncertainty for employees around the country. The focus on the short term must be primarily on making the right adjustments to get the best out of the situation. Maybe a break-up of the large functional contracts for several smaller and more transparent contracts would be a way to go. It would also allow smaller local entrepreneurs with good local knowledge to participate in the bidding rounds. Too many bidding rounds have been marked by the fact that there have been only a few large companies that have been on the offer page. Perhaps smaller contracts will also lead to increased competition, and in this way a measure to improve the functioning of today's maintenance model. The Ministry of Transport has engaged Dovre Group AS to evaluate the competitive outsourcing of operations and maintenance in the State Road Administration. The final report shall be submitted at the spring part. We welcome this report from the Dovre Group and hope it will provide us with a good basis for the necessary adjustments to improve the operation and maintenance of our road network in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1663	Let me first say that the report of the Riksrevision and the setting up of the Control and Constitutional Committee highlights many important aspects of operation and maintenance in the road sector. I agree with a lot of the things that are being drawn out, as I was also involved in the Committee's hearing a month ago. At the same time, I would like to point out that much of the points made by the Riksrevision have been followed up, partly before and partly after the report was delivered. The Committee has been subject to this report for extensive work, including the review of recordings from various better-intentioned organisations. The National Audit Office writes in its report that they have looked at both the operation and maintenance of the road network. I notice that the Norwegian Freight Car Association has pointed out that the main focus has been on the operating part. That's what the National Auditor's writing a little bit about. I believe that a self-investigation of the maintenance of the road network will reveal much of the same challenges that it has already faced. Of course, the specific challenges associated with functional contracts will not be there. Besides that, they'll probably find challenges, for example. in relation to: competitive situation, the provision to many sufficient providers of quality follow-up work on management information reporting potential for real governance with existing management information; Let me just say that if the Riksrevision chooses to do its own research in this area as well, they should of course get the help, or the follow-up they need from us, to do that work as best they can. It is such that the experience and systems that are developed for use in the operation also result from the maintenance work. So quite briefly about what has been done: everything in the contracts that was concluded in 2008 was added to more stringent reporting requirements. Since it takes four to five years to renew the entire portfolio of contracts, there are still a few years left before all the contracts contain requirements for the type of reporting that we now want. A common rules for sanctions are in place. However, making efforts to improve quality through cooperation and stimulation before imposing sanctions seems much more faith-building than punishing as much as possible. It is also important to have a set of different forms of contract and flexibility and competence to put them into practice. For this reason, the Swedish Road Administration is constantly busy developing new types of contracts. In some circumstances, it may be appropriate to stimulate small and medium-sized entrepreneurs by subdividing the large functional contracts into several small ones. This is done in the final proclamation of the Western Icon. The old functional contract which has now been replaced by many small contracts relating to specific tasks and subjects. The builder is given a much stronger role and has more direct control over the work to be done. The offer has come in. So far, they're probably surprised that they haven't gotten even more local providers. But what we can see is that these smaller ones seem to be below the big entrepreneurs in price. Of course, such a solution also has a backside. It requires a lot more resources on the construction site, but in some cases the effect is confidently positive. In other cases, it may be more appropriate to go the other way, that is, to make the contract long and to include not only operations, but also maintenance and repair or development. It will be tested – at least it will be worked on – in conjunction with the E6 in Helgeland. The important thing is not what contract is useful in each individual condition, but that one can customize the type of contract based on the current situation in the construction market. The elements taken up by the National Audit Office are essentially based on the extent to which road traffic control powers are able to make effective use of the funds that are being mobilised at any given time. Let me finally say that it is of crucial importance. Then I will come back with a few words about Dovre Group, since my time has now gone out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1704	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1707	The Committee received a number of input from user organisations when we worked on this issue, expressing concern that the regional reform, where county municipalities are entrusted with a greater responsibility for maintenance, would create greater differences in road maintenance between counties. In addition, there was concern that the reform would further powder the responsibility for this important work. Does the Minister for Transport understand these concerns? And what active grip will she take so that the result won't be like a lot of fear now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1714	The people who think of this seem to have the starting point that the roads are already the same and of the same quality across the county boundaries. That's not the case. It's already regional differences, including what's called national roads. But I thought it was very important to follow this up. I can register so far with pleasure that the county councils actually spend more money on road and road maintenance than expected in relation to the funds they received over. I see it as my task to follow closely, with direct contact with county councils and also with regional road offices, because it is vital that both operations and maintenance are strengthened, and that the new county roads are also strengthened locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1721	On one point, by several others, the Committee is very unanimous and clear on the follow-up to this national audit report, and that is the Road Service's follow-up to the contracts with the contractors. One aspect of this, which indicates that there has not been good enough follow-up, is that there does not seem to have been any financial penalties attached to those who have not followed up the contracts as they should. This indicates that it has not cost them so much not to follow up as it was intended. My question to the Council of State is: how will she now specifically ensure that this is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1729	There is now a system of penalties in place. I'm going to ask for regular reports from the state authorities if they use this opportunity. Then I imagine that there is much better cooperation in the front, with guidance, so that the entrepreneurs know as closely as possible what they are going to deliver, and so that the state road service also helps to increase the competence of the entrepreneurs, than that too much goes around printing fines. But it is necessary to have the system, and it is also necessary to use it. I want to report back to the Storing to what extent it is now being used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1734	Two things: one is that the slowdown in road maintenance will increase in 2010. It's a little bit in contrast to what the Council of State said a moment ago. But it's the Road Directorate itself that says it. When does the Council of State think that this development, with increasing road maintenance delays, can be reversed? The second is part of the shortcomings and weaknesses mentioned in the report. I listened to the Council of State, which focused a lot on functional contracts – that might be right. But there are a number of issues that have been raised, such as: poor reporting of the state of operation, poor management and overview of the state of operation of the road network. This is the Weigher's task. How will the Council of State follow this up? And when does she believe that improvements in the reporting, management and overview of the operational status of the road network will be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1741	First, to strengthen road maintenance: I think we should focus more on operations and maintenance in the future. Then I have to get back to it in the annual budgets. When it comes to the way we are now able to follow up, I get the opportunity to refer to the report ordered by the Dovre Group, which has been asked quite central questions to which we have now provided answers, such as:: Is the content of the contracts related to the task to be performed? Is there a specific requirement, the risk distribution is as it should be? How are the contracts followed up by the State Road Administration with regard to control and sanctions? This report has a deadline of 31 March, Thursday. That means that the report comes immediately over Easter, and will then be followed up from our side and will be publicly available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1748	A number of user organisations, like the Progress Party, have called for the establishment of an independent roadside surveillance system responsible for ensuring the safety and accessibility of road users, as well as ensuring that legislative and political decisions are followed up. This, as far as I have put it, has also been investigated in the past. Has the Minister for Transport assessed this and concluded in the case? And if not, when can you expect the Storting to be informed about the Government's view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1753	I have noticed that there are several user organisations who are confident that the appointment of independent supervision will mean greater follow-up of the road network. I have this matter to assess. What's going to be the big question is whether we're going to use funds to create this kind of own supervision, or whether we're going to use these resources to improve the follow-up and overhaul procedures that we already have. When the case spokesperson here asks for what time and in what way, my answer is that once we have concluded, we will present this matter in an appropriate way to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1760	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1765	In the National Audit Office’s study on the operation and maintenance of the road network in Norway, the weaknesses are in line. In fact, the road surface has been stripped of road maintenance, and major weaknesses and deficiencies have been identified in one of the main tasks of the profession. It is also important to have clear objectives, to have good and clear measurement of results and to have good control of your own resource use, regardless of the type of organisation you have, and regardless of the method you use to carry out the tasks — whether you have a high degree of procurement after a tender or whether you have a high degree of self-production. But I record that representatives from the government parties use functional contracts as a kind of political rescue buoy because the trade union is actually revealed in terms of operating weakly. This is an important study. It is both important and right that the Riksaudis thus review the use of money in such an important area as the maintenance of the road network. And so the weaknesses are in line. It is enough to refer to the summary in the report, where a number of shortcomings are identified. This is a very clear and very serious signal that management, organisation, systematics and road maintenance-related reporting in Norway need extensive modernisation and streamlining. The Progress Party will stress that this is a management responsibility and that it must be followed up by the Road Director. The Progress Party is concerned by the fragmentation that is now taking place in Norwegian traffic through the administrative reform and therefore considers that there is extra good reason to follow the road maintenance management closely in the future. The Progress Party believes that the Ministry of Transport also does so, and that the Minister of Transport keeps the Stortinge up to date on the work and outcome of that work in a clear and active way. I have noticed answers given during the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee. I noticed, among other things. The Minister for Transport, who said that what she is very concerned about now, is to go into this carefully with a view to getting a better overview of how the road network is. That's one of the core points of the case. We need to have a systematic overview of how the situation on the road network actually is. Systematic measurement is missing and clear targets are missing. It has to get into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1785	This debate is partly about the competition decision that took place with effect from 2003. It provides no basis for concluding this report from the Riksrevision. I also note that the Council of State has not done so either in the debate or during the hearing. So, of course, this report criticises the Road Service’s ability to follow up its own functional contracts, both in terms of controlling them and in terms of the level of feedback. That's right. However, there is no comparable analysis of road maintenance before 2003. And when you quote from lobby organizations that say that it is worse to deliver to entrepreneurs – those who are now getting contracts – than to the old state road service, it is an opinion that has at best a double bottom. When it comes to ‘worst to deliver’, the term used earlier in the debate can be used – one who does nothing to follow up the contract will well experience the obligation to follow up the contract as a deterioration. But that's for the users of the roads, of course, an improvement. So the fact that it's gotten worse after the competition is an expression you can't use as proof of anything. Moreover, once the department has ordered an analysis of the post-competitive situation and the effects it has had, I think we should have patience to wait until the report is available. As far as I can see, it's a couple of weeks – three weeks, barely until the report is available. Then you get a basis to evaluate it. I also heard some say that after this was put out for tender, the prices have increased. That's what the whole kingdom has done. In the whole transport sector, prices have increased enormously. It was related to the fact that at the time they were at the top of a boom and we had oil prices that made the asphalt prices enormously high. And the then state council stood here in the hall and had to defend that she was getting less and less miles of asphalt for the money that was granted, because the prices were high. So there's no evidence that the competitive outsourcing works or it doesn't work, but there's evidence that in high economic conditions, prices are increasing. And if SV needs a debate on this in order to understand it, the debate is not wasted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1799	I am very pleased with the report, because it makes part of the big challenge you have, both in terms of operation and maintenance in general, and in terms of some of the issues that the Council of State raised about this, that you were very concerned about the functional contracts. But I also believe definitely, as the representative Arne Sortevik, that this is about much more; it is actually about the overall management of the State Road Administration and the Road Directorate. I also think it is worth noting in what the Norwegian Freight Car Association says about the consequences for the roads with the Government's decision to move some of the roads to the county municipalities, with the challenges that this is likely to bring. We already see that several county councils spend money that was initially to be spent on the road, on completely different things. This probably means that, in the future, we will have even worse operation and maintenance on the road network that is now being transferred to county municipalities. So I want to get into the fact that the Council of State was very concerned about this with supervision, and that it is to be assessed. Yes, in consideration, this overseeing has been very long. And what one should at least be very aware of is the consequences within, for example. aviation. If a plane falls down, or if there's an accident at an aerodrome, what's going on? Well, that type of aircraft is put on the ground until you figure out if there's anything wrong with the aircraft type and why the accident happened, or you close the airport. In fact, it's about taking security seriously. The same thing happens on the railway. If there is an accident on the railway, you have a railway inspectorate who intervenes and arranges for cleaning up, finds out what has happened and corrects the errors before you are allowed to continue driving. But in the road sector there will be no consequences if there is an accident. I think you really have to take that on board. We know that poor operation and maintenance and poor road networks are largely and often caused by accidents on the Norwegian road network. I fully agree with the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen who says that the pathways are the arteries. It's good to hear, and at least it warms a progressing part heart to hear that the pathways are the arteries. But then it's an incredible shame to get a worse road network on both the operating and the maintenance side, because that's the consequence of the budget that this government has adopted for 2010. Every time a new state budget has been presented in recent years, it says that there has been a historic upturn in Norwegian transport and road appropriations. The consequence out there is not that it has been a historical wager. The consequence is that maintenance is getting worse and the road network is getting worse. That's what this is all about, and that's why I'm very happy that the National Auditorate has done the job they've done now. I also want to say to Langeland: Operation and maintenance are important throughout the country, both in districts and in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1812	The restructuring of the State Road Service, the separation of Mesta and the competitive outsourcing of operations and maintenance have been evaluated in several contexts and discussed very frequently. The feedback from road users has been clear approximately from day one: the maintenance of the roads has become worse. The feedback from the State Road Service, which we are struggling with in budgetary terms, has also been clear: the cost of functional contracts has increased, and they continue to increase. At first it was about 25 p.m., and now last time in the budgetary procedure it was more than 40 p.m. It's way above normal price rise. We have had poorer maintenance at a greater cost, and we, who are often on the roads around the districts, have seen it for a long time. There were many of us warning against that. Unfortunately for the road users we got right. This cannot continue. Poorer snow ploughing, later littering, poor reversing and poorer maintenance of pedestrian and cycle routes reduce traffic safety and may result in more traffic accidents. It doesn't matter when we have a zero vision, a desire for a future without killing and hard damage in traffic. Those who were employed in the production department in the State Road Administration did a good job. They did what was always reasonable to do when they were on the road, often beyond what was the Road Service's own standards and standards. Those who are employed by a private contractor also do a good job, but based on completely different assumptions. They deal with functional requirements that may be difficult to interpret, and they are employed in a company that is at the seventh and last to make money. The question is about tasks for which operations and maintenance are suitable for competitive outsourcing. Things indicate that the answer can be no. The need for an overall review of the organisation of operations and maintenance, and of road maintenance, is most present, and from the Workers' Party we attend such a review. We want answers to a few simple questions: How do we get the most operation and maintenance for the money, and what is the best for road safety? It's that simple, but it's that hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1822	For a more transparent presentation of my commitment to operations and maintenance, I will show both the initiation that I was able to give on the control committee's hearing and to the conclusion. Competition exposure, which occurred in 2003, has been commented on by several. I look forward to coming back to it when we get a response from the report from Dovre Group, but the impression is that the cost savings were not as high as they were expected to be, and that there were valuable local competences that could no longer be part of the operation and maintained with the consequences it received. I'm not going to go into a discussion if we're going to have a supervision or not, but I need to emphasize that it's not that when an accident happens on the road, the road authorities are not inside – one could get the most impression of it from the Progress Party. First of all, in addition to the police, the state road service is fast on the road, looking at both the road surface and the way in which it is, or else they are doing their own thing, and there is also a disaster commission that is investigating both serious incidents and accidents. When I'm busy with the functional contracts today, it's to check closer to what was now done both in Helgeland and in the Westål. I find it interesting. I think it would have a transfer value to other states. I've been to Northland and let me orientate myself to the State Road Administration. Experience in winter, as many of us have experienced, with strong and constant snowfall and cold, says something about how important it is that the contracts have room for example. Winter maintenance can be very different depending on the road and lead, whether this is to be specified and where accurate, whether to look at fixed prices and whether to look at volume contracts. Here's a lot that we should go into more detail. But then there is also a question to the Dovre Group about the economic, geographical and temporal scope of the contract being optimal and whether there are other elements that may be significant. I would like to end by saying that I look forward to getting even deeper into this topic and following up on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1835	We'll come back to the debate on how to organise the Road Service and the road maintenance at a later stage, whether we need to do some grabbing, or whether we don't have to do any grabbing. But a few comments in the end: one is a standard replica that I tend to have to the Progress Party when they go up and complain on the roads and on the road maintenance. So they negotiated a budget with Per-Kristian Foss three years in a row, and they were able to add - yes, hold on - one million. NOK on road maintenance for three years. And then they're checking out now when they're in opposition! But the seriousness of the road maintenance comes when you're in position and can actually allow money to it. The red-green government raised 500 million. kr more for road maintenance already in the first year. So Hoksrud, my advice to the Progress Party is, when they have power, use that power and do what's important. If road maintenance is one of those things, they should do it and not give tax relief to the rich, which they have a attachment to do instead. Many suggest that the Right became a little disturbed when we began to talk about New Public Management as a failure, that we asked questions about Right's ideological mantra, such as competition, supply and cost-effectiveness – whether it was actually the case with this road maintenance case. Yes, that question I thought I would hunt myself right too when they see that price developments go only one way – an enormous way, to say it like this: 40 pst. up in the last few years. Then there's also the basis for the Right, even if they're in opposition, to ask if one has the right medicine, or if one is in the process of a system that actually doesn't work and just gets more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1844	The President would remind the representative of Langeland that the statements should go to the President and not directly to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1847	It is tempting to say that the previous posts were a solid derailment of what this matter really concerns. The reason why I take the floor again is to remind you of what is in the matter. I believe that the government parties need to talk about functional contracts, but there is thus much more to it than that in the report. I recommend that you reread page 9. It says: ‘The investigation also shows that there is no reporting, either internally in the State Road Service or to the Ministry of Transport, which provides reliable information on the state of operation of the road network. The reporting relates primarily to distributions of measures and governance challenges and economic data, and contains to a small extent performance information. The reporting does not provide systematic information on the quality of the operational work of the contractors. This lacks a basis for assessing whether operations have been carried out in accordance with established standards and for comparing the quality of different contracts, contractors and districts.» It is some of the basic and – I would argue – crushing criticism that this report from the Riksrevision is addressed to the trade union. It is the profession that is set to take care of our roads. So in many ways, the Road Directorate and the State Road Service have been up for exams. They've struck with shine.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1859	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2231]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1873	The Norwegian railway situation is not satisfactory. The railway network has many places of bad standard. The capacity of both infrastructure and staff and train equipment is fully exploited. The railway is so vulnerable to operational deviation. The main reason for this is decades of missing railways. Too often commuters find that they do not come to work in time. Parents are delayed to pick up in kindergarten, and the elephants miss valuable instruction. Former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete addressed this situation immediately after the government change in 2005. Rail changes take time. We've seen, and we'll see even more in the future a gradual improvement. Since I started as Minister of Transport, I have had the opportunity to see something of all the positive things that happen on the railway. 13 construction projects are in progress. There are nine projects planned/designed. There will be 31 major measures to increase capacity. We'll find activities at 26 stations and nodes to improve them. The double-track between Sandnes and Stavanger is recently used. Work is in full swing on large railway installations, e.g. the development of the double-track Lysaker-Sandvika on Dramensbanen and Barkåker-Tønsberg on the Vestfoldbahnen. I recently visited Gewingåsen. The tunnel deno builds there, means a great struggle both for Trondheim-Steinkjer and for the Nordlandsbanen. When it comes to maintaining and renewing the existing network, the Oslo project is the largest and most important. There is also extensive maintenance work on other major routes, not least the Bergensbanen and Dovrebanen. When several shifts are now working in the Oslo Tunnel, the hub of the railway network, Norwegian railways become better night by night. Since the ballast was cleared between Myrdal and Voss this summer, the pointuality was better on the Bergensbanen. So I can tell you that the activity is great. The will and motivation for the development of the railway is formidable for them to join the sector. At the same time, the expectations for rail as a means of transport are also high in the future. There are currently too many deviations. The railway station measured the point legibility of 90 pst in November, thus complying with the 2009 target. Then came the snow and the cold. At the end of 2009, the average punctuality of all trains was about 83 pst. That same number was 86 pst. for 2008. So far in 2010, the punctuality rate has been between 60 and 70 pst. This is due to a combination of missing maintenance and investment over time and a winter with a lot of cold. This is not a strange phenomenon. The Swedish railway system and other parts of Europe are struggling with similar problems. It is not satisfactory, however. It is therefore crucial to continue to upgrade the Norwegian railway system and to have full pressure to realise the major investment projects that are prioritised in the national transport plan. Why does the railway have such a bad standard in many places? For many decades, too little resources have been used to build up and maintain the network. The government of Stoltenberg II has done something about this! We have carried out a significant increase in the railway works. The former government, Bondevik II, neglected the railway for four years. The first thing this government did was to reverse a reasonable cut in the 2006 budget of 159 million. kr. Their last railway budget was approximately SEK 4.4 billion. This means that the red-green government’s 2010 budget proposal is close to 4 billion kroner – or nominally 90,5 pst. – higher than the rights of Bondevik II for 2006. The investment budget is actually increasing by about 180 pst. In 2009, the Railway Agency received more money than they could use. In 2010, the Railway Agency asked for 470 million. kr to Oslo area. They've also got that. Let me spend a little more time dealing with the demanding situation many commuters have been exposed to in winter. The Government wants more - and no less - to be able to use the train. Then the train must be on route. Many commuters have expressed an understanding of deviations, but have asked for honest information about the deviations. I assure myself early that the Railway Agency and the NSB had a strengthened crisis organisation in place, so that the measures in question could be quickly implemented. The Railway Agency, in cooperation with the rail companies, has taken a number of measures: NSB ordered buses on standby as alternative transport on vulnerable routes. An additional crew was brought in. Tin and workshop capacity is greatly increased. Stations are open. In cooperation with the Minister of Industry, I have arranged for commuters to be able to use the Fly train and the long-distance train in exceptional situations. I have noticed that there has been some dissatisfaction with the system so far that it has not worked well enough. The implementation of this measure shall be published through the railway system’s speakers and monitors at the respective stations. I have been in dialogue with the two train companies and the Railway Agency to ensure that the system works as intended. As the Fly train, the NSB and the Railway Agency now assess this matter, it may indicate that the scheme is not well enough communicated to the public. This will be taken into account by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the actors. That's in the 2010 budget raised 80 million. to the Railway Agency for the Improvement of Public Information. The project shall be carried out in cooperation between the Railway Agency and the other railway undertakings. I recently visited Drammen station. New information measures have been launched. Travelers are informed that the train is delayed and that it can be waited for. From 1 February 2010, a new and better compensation scheme for train passengers is in place as a one-year test scheme. That means travellers on long-distance trains get 50 pst. discount on the ticket price if the train is more than 60 minutes late. For local trains, the scheme applies after 30 minutes. The scheme also applies to train travellers with period tickets. The payment shall be limited to half of the ticket price. From the outset, train passengers have had the right to reimbursement for the costs of alternative transport in accordance with more detailed rules. The schemes that are now being tested are thus clearly better than those that were before, and better than most other comparable schemes in Europe. In order to carry out the maintenance work in a rational and efficient way, the annual permissions for this work must be reliable. Implementation must be carried out in a methodically and structured way to obtain the best possible effect. Even with annual commitments, it takes time to implement both the necessary planning and the maintenance work itself. So it will take some time before it becomes clear better. While extensive maintenance work is under way, there may be sometimes greater problems with deviations in train traffic due to the fact that they are to be decommissioned at the same time as maintenance work. In 2007 and 2008, there was also a major traffic problem due to many technical failures on the railway network, especially in the Oslo Tunnel. Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete immediately took action by establishing the Oslo project. The aim of the project is to give the sections concerned a Gardermoen standard by re-establishing the maintenance run. The Oslo project covers the Lysaker-Etterstad sections, including Oslo S and Oslo Tunnel, and the Oslo S-Lillestrøm, Oslo S-Ski and Lysaker-Asker sections. The Oslo project is carried out under the direction of the Railway Agency, but is carried out in close cooperation with the railway companies. A large amount of traffic, regular short operating breaks and difficult access to the track means that the improvement of this infrastructure is a major challenge, and especially demanding when it comes to rigging, operation and coordination of the measures while operating on these routes on a regular basis. The main weight of train traffic in Norway actually happens here. The project is part of the National Transport Plan. It's costing about $2.1 billion. If everything goes according to plan, the Lysaker–Etterstad section will be completed in 2012, while the other sections will be gradually improved, and the entire project will be completed within four to five years. Other major renewal measures are also implemented elsewhere on the railway network, especially on the main routes of Bergensbanen, Dovrebanen and Sørlandsbanen. This is necessary in particular: to reduce speed with regard to security. The completion of the Western Corridor in 2012 will provide the basis for a substantial increase in train provision, above all west of Oslo. The Lysaker-Sandvika-Asker double-track project is here the last sub-project. Over time, the NSB has been working on a proposal for a change of system when it comes to route provision. Due to its complexity, such conversions are very rare in Norway, the last time in connection with the opening of the Gardermoban. Two years ago, the NSB submitted its draft timetable for 2012. On this basis, the NSB has ordered 50 new trains for which the State has given a guarantee. It is agreed to upgrade trains for 1.3 billion kroner. This work is in full swing. The railway station now provides a base route conversion from December 2012. There is in itself a very extensive work with a lot of risk. The Ministry follows closely to ensure that the Railway Agency has close and good cooperation with the railway companies. The current framework agreement with NSB is due in 2010. The Ministry of Transport and the NSB have launched negotiations on train provision from 2011 onwards. The flight train wrote in the autumn of 2009 a letter to the Ministry of Transport with a desire to take over parts of the NSB's portfolio, especially on the intercity sections. The flight wants a corresponding purchase arrangement with the State by the NSB. The air train fears that the NSB’s 2012 timetable will increase competition under different conditions between the Aerodrome and the NSB within its core area. Saga is now under treatment in the Ministry of Transport. It is natural to see this issue in the context of the continuation of the purchase arrangement with the NSB. I'm impatient on the railway's behalf. I am busy marking a difference for travellers, both in the provision of basic services and in the way train passengers are taken care of in the event of anomalies. According to my request, the Railway Agency has assessed the extension of the planned closure periods in 2010. The railway works’ feedback is that, in addition to the planned closure of the Oslo S-Dram station 16 days in the summer, from 23 July to 9 August, they close off the Oslo S-Lysaker route from 10 July to 23 July. July. The railway system informs us that this means more maintenance faster so that both the Oslo tunnel and the Skøyen station will have fewer faults in the coming winter. I have also asked the Railway Agency together with the train companies to consider replacing train departures with bus running. This is something I will come back to when I have a response. In October 2009, the Railway Agency presented a provisional action programme. There are several reasons why this needs to be reviewed. One important reason is that, following the submission of the National Transport Plan, the Railway Agency saw that resolving a problematic manning situation would be more demanding. There is a lack of competent personnel, e.g. signalling fittings. The railway works also wear there with the legacy of Bondevik II. The government has put out parts of the railway works and has sent highly qualified personnel, including: signalling competence, on the door with final packages. Such competence is now very difficult to replace for various reasons. Any changes made to the proposed action programme will be submitted to the Stortinget, among others. in connection with the annual budgetary proposals. The railway system must replace signalling and securing systems at intervals. This is the last mentioned in Prop. 1 S for 2009-2010. A preliminary estimate of costs is between 15 and 20 billion kroner. The railway works are now working on revising their signalling strategy. In this context, the Railway Agency will have to re-examine the strategy for the introduction of the European standard signalling system, ERTMS, the European Railway Traffic Management System. We're running our own KS1 for this work. President, it's wrong. It should be said that the work on KVU has started. The railway works must present different options of action and calculate the socio-economic most profitable. Denmark has come to the conclusion that they will introduce the system of completion during 2020. It is important to me that we look more closely at relevant foreign experiences before making a final decision on how to build ERTMS on the Norwegian railway network. When it comes to the investment project new double track Oslo–Ski, I want to move forward as quickly as possible. Several have asked questions about the speed of this work. I am configured to do the grips that may be needed to get as rapid and defensive progress as possible. The railway station is therefore asking to assess progress faster than that of the National Transport Plan at the start of construction in 2013/2014 and completion in 2018/2019. Oslo-Ski is an important project in the development of the intercity network. With the growth scenario that is reflected for Akershus and Oslo, and with the corresponding transport needs, I think it is necessary to set up a rapid development of the railway in the intercity area. The railway must be prohibited from taking a large part of the transport work in the intercity area in the future. I have assured myself that the Railway Agency will give priority to bringing forward plans for the development of double tracks within the Halden-Lillehammer-Skien triangle as the basis for the submission of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The railway station has already started this flat work. Contact with local authorities on the establishment of this strategy. The Soria Moria Declaration announces that the Government will present a decision base on the high-speed rail with a view to its construction. I have commissioned the Railway Agency to define the most appropriate action options for achieving the objectives of the transport policy in the different corridors. Here are four choices: a continuation of today's policy a more offensive further development of existing railway infrastructure, also outside the intercity area a high-speed concept based on existing networks and intercity strategy mainly separate high-speed lines; A project organisation of its own shall be established and international competence shall be acquired. The railway works are subject to a deadline of 1 February 2012 to make recommendations. In this way, we provide the best possible basis, through the forthcoming roll-out of the national transport plan, to provide answers on how to design Norwegian railways in the future. Rail capacity in the Oslo area is today detonated at central times of the day. The railway works on measures that will increase a button capacity from 19 trains per hour to 24 with the potential for an additional limited increase. The capacity increase will come in the next few years, but the Oslo Tunnel will still be a bottleneck. Therefore, in cooperation with the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency has been entrusted with the task of deploying and working with plans for a more long-term increase in rail capacity in the Oslo area in general, and in central Oslo in particular. This work also needs to be coordinated with the intercity and high-speed features. It has to be done, among other things. clarification and timing when a planning and construction process is needed for any tunnel solution, starting with a first step concept currency operation. It has been suggested that the distribution be made in cooperation with local authorities in Oslo and Akershus. I have more positive news about the railway. In the current national transport plan, the Government has presented its own strategy for increasing freight transport. Transport of containers and other cargo operators between Oslo and the major cities of South Norway and Narvik – via Sweden – and Bodø constitutes 85 pst. of the carriage of goods by road. The annual growth was between 10 and 15 pst. between 2003 and 2008. The target is an approximate doubling of rail freight capacity by the planning period. In order to be able to significantly increase capacity, there is a need to be able to build several new crossing tracks. The expansion of Alnabru is the major terminal project in the period. Otherwise, selected urban terminals shall be allocated. In addition, a number of capacity-enhancing measures are to be implemented during the planning period. These are measures that increase security, but also monthly investments in stations and holding sites should be put in place. This will increase accessibility and make trains as travel modes for more people. The railways have been neglected for many years. The government immediately seized it after the government change in 2005. We all know that it takes time before we see a clear effect. The government exceeded the previous national transport plan by approximately NOK 2 billion on the railway. In spring 2009, we once presented the most ambitious national transport plan. I'm sure we're on track. Gradually, we want to see a contraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e1985	The President will propose that the statement be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee in accordance with § 34a(c) of the Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We have no more than 17 minutes left of the regular meeting time, and then it is a little untidy to start the interview debate in the next case. The President will therefore propose that we cancel the morning meeting and set a new meeting at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first case at the evening meeting is case No. 8, interpellation of the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2025	It is nice to see that the Council of State is in the hall. It's almost as if the state council has the same regularity as a local train in the NSB. It's been a long time since we've challenged the Council of States to come to the Storting and have a statement on the train chaos we've experienced, especially in the East, in the last few months. It took a long time before the Council of State accepted the invitation and wanted to meet with the statement she made today. It has been called on several times from several political parties. I think it's important that we now discuss all the challenges of train chaos and problems that have been for all those who have used the train in many of the last weeks. I think people, at least with whom I've been talking, have been reasonably frustrated, to say it carefully. Many have used rather harsh words about how they have experienced the situation and how they have been treated in the case of train chaos in the East, especially in the last few weeks. I think maybe many of the words didn't fit in this room, so I shouldn't mention the worst. That was really special yesterday. Then I was at home in Telemark. I happened to meet someone who really wanted to be a train passenger. He said, "I'm an environmental pig." It's not because I want to be, but it's because I can no longer trust whether the train is running or not. I have to drive a car because I can no longer know if I can arrive in time for what I am going to do. He was also disabled. I know that he has also sent an e-mail to the Council of State, and I think he has a few good points. He says, "When are you going to catch up with the NSB and the problem there?" It was so nice before: there's always a train going. Now it says, well, maybe there's a train going on, but then it's not sure it's coming out completely. That's how I think many train commuters have experienced in the last few weeks. That is why I very much want to challenge the Council of States: what concrete measures will be taken to prevent this continuing to happen? The council had a statement in the hall earlier today. I think it was very nice and well about what you want to do with the long-term challenges, but I think she was little concrete about what you've done. Much of what has been done was done long before the Council of State got on the track, as I experience it. In relation to the challenges on the network, it was launched early in the phase. It is such that Norwegian winter cold actually seems to cause enormous problems for the Railway Agency and the train companies every year. They come almost like Christmas Eve on the bitch every year. I think it is important to bear in mind that you now experience that the NSB and the other train companies are very busy trying to solve these challenges. They see new opportunities, but unfortunately it looks as if the Railway Agency has some of the old thoughts, which have been given a long life and still live well. That's a little bit of a shame. The head of NSB's Passenger Traffic, Stein Nilsen, has resigned his position and stated that the train problems in the East will not be resolved until 30 years from now if no more money is allocated to the railway development. It is with the allocation promised by the Council of State in its presentation earlier today, because the Council of State presented is largely what is stated in the National Transport Plan. This means that it is not intended to help lift the railway and prevent all passengers running on the railway network from continuing to experience train chaos, train problems and failure to arrive at them every day. I think there are many things that must now be done. One thing, and what I think is the most important thing to have full pressure on, is to do something about the acute situation we have on our network, make sure to do something about the maintenance run. I ask myself a few questions, because one day the railway manager says they've got all the money they need, that they can't spend any more. But almost the next day, it is said that if you had received more, you could use more – with reference to the evening post that had a notice where the railway manager first said that she could not spend money, but then suddenly said that if she had received money, she could do it. I think the most important thing now is to have full pressure on maintenance. It is important that the Railway Agency thinks creatively, looks at new opportunities and does not go in the old track that has been going on for many years, but actually starts looking for other opportunities and other ways to do things. In the case of the long-term lines, it's about that I think we have to do about the railway station. We should separate the Railway Agency from two companies, an extension company and a parent company. Some of the things that might be absolutely important are, in fact, that we have to give more money. We must not just give more money, but we must give much more money if the challenges facing the railways are to be solved. The Progress Party, in its 2010 government budget, promoted proposals for an investment framework of SEK 6.8 billion in addition to the Government's framework, but unfortunately was downgraded. There's one thing that we know doesn't work at all, and it's crisis meetings. I have recorded that for the last four years, there have been four crisis meetings. But it doesn't help to have a crisis meeting at the crisis meeting, it needs action, because it's just action that makes sure that something actually happens. The Council of State boasted earlier today of everything the Government has done, but this government has now been sitting for five years, and instead of blaming the previous government – or ‘the previous government’ – that was heard a lot about in the last period – one should actually make sure to follow up. You have to take responsibility for the fact that there are still challenges. In spite of what the Council of State says, that you have never given more money, you have the same challenges, and they have actually become bigger in 2010 than they were in 2005. I'm, as I said, very happy that the Council of State said something about the challenges in the Oslo Tunnel, and I'm glad that the Council of State said something about Oslo–Ski, but they're a little bit more long-term. Our challenge is what we're doing with the acute situation that we're in now. It is a great paradox, when we now have a political majority who are very concerned about moving goods from road to rail, that the Post Norway, for which the Council of State is responsible for – the same Council of State that is responsible for the General Assembly of the NSB and the Railway Agency – recently said that you no longer trust that you can obtain your goods. So they are now choosing to run the goods on trailers over trains, even on long distances. And the Post is, as I said, not only about starting to fail the train. On 15 January, the international transport company Schenker announced that they would transfer significant quantities of goods from rail to road. It is ironic that this happens under a government that uses almost every opportunity to flag an environmental profile and to bring trains forward in the environmental debate. When the Committee met the group management in NSB on 4 February, it was confirmed that the problems can only be solved through large investments in railway tracks in and around Oslo, and that the NSB, unlike the railway station, believes that there is room for a faster investment rate than today. I was concerned that I think it is good that the Council of State talks a lot about Oslo–Ski, but there are many other important routes. I want to challenge the Council of State on something I have also done outside the hall, and it is the Eidanger thoroughfare, as it says it should have started in 2007. That was the red-green promise in the last period. Now the 2011 promise. I have yet to experience that the Council of State will be concrete and guarantee that it will start in 2011, which was the prerequisite and what everyone has expected the Council of State to join. So I will continue to challenge the Council of State whether she will now guarantee that the Government will follow up its railway promise, that these investment projects will be launched, and that the Eidanger thoroughfare will be in place in 2011. And then I'm also excited, based on the presentation earlier today, what concrete measures the Council of State will take to resolve the acute situation you're in, so that you can avoid the challenges you've had in the past weeks, which have created a lot of trouble for the railway and not least for the NSB in relation to the trust of their customers. The challenge is how to prevent this from happening. The Council of State had a statement earlier today, but I'm excited what the Council of State will now do specifically to ensure that from the summer and the harvest of actually you have trains that go when they are going, so that people come from A to B when they are going, and that it's not like now that trains are standing and people don't come home and go to work – because the trains don't go as they should. I look forward very much to the debate, and I am pleased that the Council of State has finally arrived. The reason for the interpellation was that the Council of State would not come when they first challenged her, but I am very pleased with the presentation, and I am pleased with the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2065	When full stop situations occur in train traffic due to errors on the network, in train equipment or due to other conditions that create problems both for train travellers and for freight transport by rail, I find it right that responsible transport ministers should call the leaders outside of the train. The Council of State that does not do so does not take responsibility as Minister of Transport in a good enough way. I know that my predecessor, Liv Signe Navarsete, took the initiative to launch concrete actions and projects after their meetings to improve the situation. The best example of this is just the Oslo project. It was completed after a meeting in 2008. The reason for the start-up of the project was the continued occurrence of events on railway installations in and around the Oslo S area. There were often major delays, there was a stop in train traffic, and the cause was particularly frequent technical errors in the Oslo tunnel. Extraordinary renewal measures, both on the Lysaker-Etterstad section, including the Oslo S-Oslo tunnel, and on the sections between Oslo-Lillestrøm, on the Hauptban, between Oslo-Ski and between Oslo-Asker, were initiated. As I have done well in my article on the railway situation under case No. 7 today, it's about an extensive renewal project. It is estimated at approximately DKK 2.1 billion and is part of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The goal is to get an uptime for these sections that correspond to today's quality level on the Gardermoban. Infrastructure weights should be renewed and upgraded so that for the next 25 years there will only be a need for regular maintenance. So this renewal work has come to a successful conclusion. Work on the resolution of the Oslo Tunnel started in 2008, work on the Lysaker-Etterstad route started this year, and it is planned to be completed in 2012, while introducing a new roadmap for the Oslo area. In addition, the railway works will start the renewal work between Oslo and Lillestrøm this year. The interpellant talks like it's a quick fix to make sure the train runs on hamsters. It's actually not that easy. However, when the renewal work on the Lysaker-Etterstad section, while new double tracks on the Western corridor, is completed in 2012, there is reason to expect a much better and more operationally stable train supply. The construction of double tracks between Sandnes and Stavanger is planned to provide greater stability on the railway. In these days we see just what long-lasting cold and snow means on that path as well. There is always a risk that there may be deviations in train traffic when renewing work. It is related to the simultaneous derailment of normal train running on the routes concerned. It is important to implement the Oslo project as quickly as possible. I am very pleased that, at my request, the Railway Agency has now taken a new round to see if they can shut down even further in the summer of the Oslo tunnel than they had planned, in order to do even more maintenance and renewal work. I've been there myself, I've seen work laws working at night, but they have the possibility to work 4 hours a day. Now the Railway Agency has concluded that they are shutting down for two weeks longer. This means that they have much more work done, precisely with the hope that Hoksrud and I have in common, a safer fall and winter for many train passengers. Then I also asked the Railway Agency to see if it is possible to replace several more trains with buses. There will be a more robust schedule, allowing you to quickly re-route trains if events occur that create delays and stops in train traffic. The NSB is continuously working with bus companies in the Ausland area to ensure better response time and quality of the alternative transport. They propose to conduct an offer contest for the use of bus capacity in deviating situations during the first six months of this year. The goal is to improve the quality, get a more careful situation and make bus availability more accessible in the aberration management. The main reasons for the major operational problems that the railway is currently struggling with are the lack of railway licenses over many years. Not least what is involved in both the interpellant and I, the operation and maintenance of the existing network. This was also evident in the context of the corresponding operational problems that occurred in 2007 and 2008, and it is not least because we have focused even more on both operations and maintenance now in the very last few years. When it's budgetary, they speak for themselves, and I understand that it's exhausting when I keep repeating that we have almost double the budget, we have almost triple investments. So I'm not going to say more about it right now, where I can show you the statement that I had earlier today. But I don't think anyone is in doubt that the red-green government has put more money into the railways than governments before we have, and I don't think there can be any house going past that here's the big plan ahead. When we put forward a national transport plan that over time means NOK 92 billion more to the railway, there must be room for something more to operate and maintain as well as for new projects. They are also listed, as they appear in the national transport plan. So the interpellant came up with some clear questions. He was pleased that we were doing what we can to make progress on Oslo S-Ski, and he found it regrettable that the Post was moving from track to road. I totally agree with that. I am happy to report that from Posten's page, which is busy with environmentally friendly transport, this is the most temporary, but one does so because the long-lasting cold and snow caused disruption of operations that caused too much mail to be delayed. So they're back on track again with the very first. However, it is important here to continue to have the objective of doubling the freight capacity for the eyes, because then there will have to be progress both on the more than 40 crossing tracks that are indicated and on the repairs that will otherwise be carried out. So ask the interpellant about concrete measures. Now I have mentioned those that I think are most important in the short term. So it's not possible to get past the fact that it has been demanding to be assigned to the railway at this time, whether we're talking about the railway station or we're talking about the NSB. I think they have made an affordable effort on everything from tin capacity and workshop capacity to the information that has been significantly strengthened out at the stations, which should be further strengthened when all the money is spent in 2010. To the Eidanger tunnel is to say, yes, it is a project that is also part of the national transport plan. Then we get to come back to realization.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2099	I don't think it's exhausting that the government is telling me what you're doing, that the council is busy getting it out. But I also think it is important to bear in mind that if you look at the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, you were missing in 2010 – if you want to spend the money as intended, you would deposit 850 million a year. kr on the railway. When it is also known that the Government and the Council of State have set the Railway Agency in motion to make a high-speed investigation of 50 million. kr, which must be taken from a place, is the question of where to take this money from. Has the operation and maintenance, or from other investment projects, not received additional appropriations to cover this investigation? I believe that instead of spending time discussing something that is far ahead of time, the Railway Agency should rather spend time and resources on the challenges that you face now, and that all train passengers and everyone who wants to use the train are busy, namely to make sure that the train is running when it is going to, that people arrive when they are going to, and that they get kids and others when they are going to. That's what's important to people now. A high-speed train at some point in the future is not currently occupied by the train passengers. Like me, they're more concerned about the Eidanger track, instead of going for 20 km/h on large sections of the route, maybe they should go for 150 km/h instead – or 180 km/h, if you can do it. There would be great progress. It is not that the challenges now are just about snow and snow problems. It has, for example, have been extremely bad regularity on Bergensbanen, and this is due to completely different conditions than just snow and that it is winter. There's some of what I think is the challenge here. I want to challenge the Council of State on why it is that you have almost not allowed the commuters to use the Airtrain. This has been debated and further questions have been raised by the Council of State. I really hope that the Council of State will make sure that when the other trains have problems, commuters and others who use the train will be allowed to use the Fly train much more than they do today. I also don't think you can be aware that there is a regularity now of 60-70 pst. – as the Council of State said earlier in the statement. It's too bad. And that there are increased appropriations in the last four years is good, but the challenge and my question to the Council of State – I understand that she will not respond properly to whether the Hardanger thoroughfare is still going on in 2011 or not – is this what the Railway Agency says, that they have got all the money they can spend, or is it what the NSB says, that there must be more money for, and that it is possible to spend more money on investment, not least on operations and maintenance? I wonder where the Council of State is standing here. Is it the State Council that has sent signals to the Railway Agency or the NSB? At least it is clear that there is a collision course between the NSB and the Railway Agency in terms of how much money you should spend to resolve the acute situation of the railway, which is critical to the NSB and the reputation of the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2114	I'm so happy because it's such a commitment to strengthening the Norwegian railway system. When it comes to this distribution that I've held earlier today, a claim won't be more true because it's repeated. It has never been against me to come here and brief on the situation of the railway. I have also reported this in writing, and I am happy that it has been prepared for it. Then I record that the Progress Party will naturally focus on its 2010 budget proposal when it mentions amounts. Of course, they avoid saying anything about the reductions that they themselves have proposed, year after year, on the railway. In fact, this lack of attention earlier on the railway means that both Bergensbanen and others wear – they should have had far more to maintain at an earlier time. That's the same thing we saw in the municipal sector. There's also a big aftertaste of maintenance, but now we're in the process. I saw for myself what it meant only that they cleaned the ballast this summer in the maintenance package on the Bergensbanen between Myrdal and Voss. So it has resulted in greater punctuality, but there is still room for hardship, and there is room in the 2010 budget for both more maintenance on the Bergensbanen and on other paths. Then to the Fly train. It's not like the Fly train today is going with so much capacity that it's just opening the doors. The flight has one mission, and it's to carry air passengers between Drammen and Gardermoen. It goes without saying that there must be certain rules attached to it, but there is communication and information being too bad. It's going to get worse. I might as well be here to be blamed for not following up on Soria Moria. That's what I'm doing, follow Soria Moria up on this field – and the 50 million. Hoksrud doesn't have to worry about. They are included in the budgetary resources available at planning level. Then to the Eidanger Tunnel. I think the Eidanger tunnel is one of several examples that it's actually important to plan before we start. Owners are within the national single-track transport plan. Now the question of double tracks comes up. It goes without saying that it will have to be planned more closely before it is put into action. Four options shall be provided for in the future. Hoksrud can rejoice until 1 February 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2131	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for the statement that preceded the interpellation, where she explained what had been done and what to do. Then I must also thank the interpellant. It is gratifying that the Progress Party, which has previously razed the rail transport budgets, is now also occupied by trains. For those of us who are busy with trains, there is nothing better than that there is a lot of attention in the Storting. There may be a lack of attention for many years that has led us into today's situation. That's why it's good that we have a government that's doing a great job for the railroad. Not all areas of society have experienced over 180 pst. growth over the last five years, such as railway investment. Not all of the government budget items increased by 18.5 pst. from 2009 to 2010, as the Railway Agency’s budget did. I wish it was as easy to build and operate Norwegian railway as the Brio train I was playing with when I was a kid, but that's not the way it is. I think there are very few of today's meeting magnification representatives who believe in revolution, and in the change of words about the railway, it may seem that some people think it is possible. At least someone thinks they can perform wonders. I must admit that I do not believe in revolution or under. What I believe, on the other hand, is that the great effort on the railway can still correct the injustice that has been done. You've been in power for four years, and you haven't done anything, says the opposition. If the completion of the double-track Sandnes–Stavanger doesn't matter, if more maintenance in the whole country doesn't matter – especially in the nerve center around Oslo – if it finally gets Oslo–Ski into the national transport plan and at its own post in the state budget doesn't matter – this as three measures by very many – well, then we've shown our will, and we want to go on! Where do we go from here? It is the important thing for frustrated travelers who have endured on the platform in winter. I have a lot of understanding of their situation and of the freight forwarders who want the goods on the road and not on the road. We have to sort out the infrastructure in the Oslo area and in the tunnel there. Over $2 billion, we're going to spend the next few years. So it's limited how much maintenance you get done the few hours at night when the trains don't go. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State has today announced an intensified maintenance work this summer, with the closure of traffic through Oslo for four weeks instead of two weeks. Intensive maintenance is also in line with what the Workers' Party has said earlier this winter. Faster maintenance will speed up the refresh rate. I am also pleased that a process has been launched to look at new tunnel solutions or other alternatives that can improve the emergence through Oslo. Much will get better when today's tunnel is finished upgrading. But for those of us who have ambitions for the Norwegian railway, a new solution will have to come in the future. So I don't think we're going back to the former stationmaster and station keepers. But I ask the question whether the pendulum has turned too far in the opposite direction. Until the maintenance work on the lines is completed, we should consider more supervision of the track sections at night. It was this medicine that made that 99 pst. of the trains under the OL at Lillehammer were punctual, in a situation where before the OL had great delays. You can if you want – and if you spend money on operations! 50 new train sets have been ordered, and the NSB has an option on several. I ask the question, is it perhaps as well that you trigger this option and order more people now? It's a three-year order time. The plans for continuous double-track in the intercity triangle must be put in place by the Railway Agency. We need to implement the expansions we have set ourselves as targets in the current national transport plan, and time-limited double tracks throughout the triangle in the context of the next national transport plan. Then came the mandate for the high-speed investigation. Here is a broad consensus on the Stortinget – minus the Advance Party. High-speed travel can mean completely new travel patterns, new housing patterns and new business development. The investigations should provide us with a basis for decision-making. Then we must not forget that trains are going elsewhere as well, and that in winter there have been problems on the Bergensbanen, and not least on the Jærbanen. In the long term, challenges need to be met with the same medicine – increased maintenance budgets and investment projects. In the short term, all stones have to be turned in order to get trains in the east and west on track, as the Minister for Transport has previously explained. I am pleased with the commitment and the level of ambition that is in terms of the railway, and I look forward to many good railway discussions – and not least decisions – in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2165	As the representative of Kernli correctly said, this is more than an Eastern problem. It is true that both the Dovrebahn and the Vestfoldbahn have had low regularity for a long time now – not to mention the Bergensbanen, which has actually had the worst development of the major routes. The background for this has been known for a long time. In the recording from the Railway Agency to the National Transport Plan, which came at the turn of the year 2006/2007, the Railway Agency said: ‘Large parts of railway installations have a high average age and the railway works face major challenges in the years to come in terms of renewing their facilities as the state indicates that they need to be replaced. A high quality of installations is important in terms of safety and punctuality, and if the installations cannot be renewed as the condition becomes too poor, this will result in lower reliability and multiple failures of slow running and delays as a result.» In fact, the more the red-green government has talked about the railways, about its railway operations and about the importance of the railways for the Government, the more clearly the problems and challenges in the Norwegian railway sector have emerged. That means the trains are standing, and the passengers are waiting. We have almost come out of the census at the number of crisis meetings between the railway management and the transport minister. Stein Nilsen, who was the director of NSB Persontog, said this: ‘If much more money is not allocated, it will take 30 years to solve the train’s problems in the east. It does not include coffee and complaints on the platform, and it does not include reimbursement of tickets for passengers who are not transported or who are severely delayed when choosing rail transport. What is needed is a thorough upgrading, renewal and modernisation of the railways in Norway. We've heard the Council of State earlier today, and in part, it's also repeated in her contributions to this inter-pelling debate, about the measures being taken. It is mainly directed a few years ahead – whether we can hope for the effect that is suggested and notified. But in the difficult situation in the short term – for those who then want to use trains – it is important to have the important and proper grips. A question to the Minister for Transport will then be whether it is correct that the reduction in maintenance on the rail network is more than NOK 10 billion. If that's it, where does the power roof come to close that gap? Then, of course, it won't be a good answer to say that the 50 million that are now to be used to unload high-speed trains are made of planning funds, if within the overall budget framework, you actually have a hard time covering a accumulated lag on the maintenance of the network of 10 billion kroner. Then there are two relationships I would like to challenge the Minister of Transport. In the discussion about punctuality and trains that do not go, passengers have been extra frustrated by the fact that the two actors do not agree on who is to blame – whether it is for the NSA, or whether it is for the Railway Agency, to use that expression. The debate also shows that there is a lot of error on trains. The train operator, the train owner NSB, is the reason for this. So I ask concretely, is there a lot wrong on the train? And is that the reason for some of the problems that train passengers are faced with, shows up? It also appears in the debate that there is a delay in cleaning up old trains. Is it also a problem that it takes longer and is more expensive because the trains actually turn out to be in much worse condition than what you might have thought before they go into maintenance? So here are three things you have to do in the short term, if you're going to get a little bit better in the situation for the train passengers. It is to close the gap in extensive aftermath of maintenance on the line network. It is to fix the faults on trains, so that trains can walk. And that's getting the refurbishment of the trains that need refurbishment, done faster than it has so far seemed that you've been able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2199	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the statement she made earlier today. The overall responsibility for Norway’s collective transport system and a modern and competitive rail system lies with the Storting. The size is responsible for the organisation of a modern transport system that brings people to and from work in a fast, efficient, safe and predictable way – a transport system that, put in a holistic social perspective, collects urban and urban areas into one country. This winter, the Stortinget and the Minister of Transport have unfortunately failed in this social mission. The Norwegian railway is in crisis. In winter, we experienced to train users that delays and errors are replacing each other. Trust has fallen. Private individuals and businesses opt out of the railway for the benefit of the road. NSB loses customers. The environment is suffering. The railway system is unable to adapt, and the Government is avoiding realistic long-term solutions. On the railway, a reactive fire extinguisher is now operated instead of a pro-active development. It's time to raise your eyes. Right will have a transport offer it shines off. We need good, reliable solutions for people's everyday lives to function for business and the environment, as well as ensuring the necessary and good traffic solutions for large-scale population areas. We have it in the East, we have it elsewhere in our country. The offer must be such that the train is running when it is intended to have and has an adequate capacity. So the question is, what does it take to solve this train crisis? The overall answer is that the government must want to rail, then that the government must want the national transport plan – and even more: Norwegian railways need new solutions, and we need to use the experiences and methods we see used in other countries. Positive things seem to happen internally at the Railway Agency, but this must also be reflected in results, both for the Railway Agency internally and with the other companies in the field. We need an accuracy culture of 100 pst., a good documentation, customer-focused service, openness to users, society and internal – and we need comprehensive planning and good enough contingency plans. We need an ambitious railway sector that not only dares, but also believes in the railways. If we're going to get the train sector back on track, we also need significant commitment and commitment from us politicians. We must provide ample framework for predictability in funding. If we are to have any chance of meeting the expectations of what the railway should be, this requires that we are also open to modern corporate structure, project organisation and Public Private Cooperation in terms of funding. We need tighter financial frameworks. They will come forward, and they will make stronger demands for a political priority and for new solutions to realise new projects. The space for action that this opens, we have to put it into practice. This should involve increased use of project financing and Public Private Cooperation. Such solutions could provide new train rails faster, more predictable, cheaper, with increased quality, better risk distribution and greater focus and attention to life-cycle costs. Railways are much more than travelling from A to B. Railways are urban and regional development, value creation, environmental and district policies. The government is failing in this. The welfare state is built by facilitating good communication, national and abroad. I think it's important that we both dry and willing, and we want to be on that duel. Today, four weeks have come to an end because maintenance in the Oslo tunnel is to be intensified. That's good, but I wonder why not focus on me as a traveler, and on all other travellers, who then ask themselves the question: How am I going to get there? This customer attention, saying that of course we should set up by bus so that you can find out, is totally absent from that information. We will clarify it when the answers are available, what we have heard today. Double tracks Oslo–Skien/Halden/Lillehammer – it takes 30 years with today’s planning. This means that you would have to do more than national transport plan. We can hope for spring, but it will be new for travelers that the blue road helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2222	I would like to thank the Council of State for the work done earlier today and the interpellant for the interpellant. On 11 June 2009 was an important date for the Norwegian railway. Then the Government got multiples in the Storting for a bet on the train that was larger than in several generations. A transport plan was attached, which means a doubling of the investments compared to the previous period and more than one-third compared to the puzzled level when they were driven by the Advance Party as a support wheel. I and SV will refer to the distribution and response from the State Council here today when it applies to all the measures that have been put in place and that were implemented to get the train on track. I'm glad we have a state council that has the ability to address the crisis in order for us to get rail operations on rail. But as a commuter on the east fold track myself, I know that cork measures or extra permissions are particularly good comfort on the day you stand there with a late train. With the regularity we've had in the last few months, that means that you commute both ways, you have to assume that almost every day you have a train delay. With work, kindergarten, school, some leisure activities and something like that, there's a problem that affects you in the middle of your everyday life. It may be like missing kindergarten places when you have young children or standing in a health queue when you are seriously ill. It's about making life go up. It's about the day after tomorrow. I was waiting for the train, a little irritated, a day in winter. Then there was a guy who got away to me, a Frp-ar -- not from this room, just to say it -- and then he said to me that if we had led progress party politics and listened more to the Progress Party, I would have dropped out there and annoyed myself. I had to give him the right way, because if we had conducted progress party policies on the railways for some decades, we wouldn't have had a particular amount of network to annoy ourselves over in Norway. It is that, over the decades, the Progress Party has proposed in the budget by budget until 2009, a dramatic cut in the railway investment and operation and maintenance commitments. I'm trying what I can, to take the entrance that I have with me from Scripture, that one should enjoy more than over a hundred already saved sinners. For SV, it is important to speed up the development of the railway. We're going to continue the escalation over the next few years, and we're going to have a transport plan, so we're going to have a railway bet on a completely different level in the next round. We want a level of railway investment that allows us to complete most of the double tracks in Austria, to Lillehammer, Halden and Grenland, the next decade. Looking at EU statistics, he shows that from 1992 to 2007 we were at the bottom of Europe in rail investment. In the same period, the Swedes invested twice as much, the four times as much per mountain country of Switzerland. built-in like we did. Changing governments' relationship with the train is also what we can well call a rather treacherous love story. We have to learn from other countries. Among other things, there is an insightful article in today's Evening Post that shows how Spain is betting on the train. They invest 20 times as much as we decided last year. Double as much on the path as they use on the road now. A decision is not made to dispose of high-speed trains that are responsible for the commuting experience in everyday life, which can almost be heard. So it's years, not to talk about decades of low-priority train from varying governments that can explain it. We have to learn from those countries, but that also means that we have to learn that we have to give priority. We can't, like the Progress Party and partly the Right, invest imagination in four-field highways as well as building up the railway. We must give priority to the most efficient and environmentally friendly mode of transport in that part of the country where it lives most people. It's the train. The road authorities believe that if the car is to take the growth of transport forward in the capital area, 16 fields of motorways must be built. Instead, we have to speed up the construction of double tracks, and we have to complete the construction of entire sections. I believe that the Oslo–Ski route is the most important transport project in Norway in the years to come. I noticed with pleasure what the council said in its statement. The grips needed to achieve the fastest possible completion of the Oslo-Ski route are: Then we have to build multiple crossing tracks, as it is warned. We need to get to upgrade stations. We must strongly consider using the option we have to buy additional new train equipment and continue the growth in maintenance. Should something good come out of the situation we've had in winter, with the train crisis, there had to be a completely different will cross-political to bet on the train. The representative Kjerli said there are few revolutionaries in this room, but we actually need a train revolution in Norway in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2250	First, I would like to thank you for the statement we received earlier today, and which I am pleased to debate on 25 March, and thank you to the interpellant for having raised a debate. The railway network has too bad standards, I think everyone agrees. The willingness and motivation to develop the railway now appear to be present. Nice! The expectations of the railway as the means of transport for the future are also great, and it seems that the centre party is very good. Railways are being prioritised in a completely different way now than they were five years ago. With the government change in 2005 we had a change of pace in railway policy. While the development of a new double track between Lysaker and Sandvika was in danger of stopping, this government has raised the level of investment to the railway by 180 pst. Nowhere in the country will you enjoy it more well than in the Oslo area. To re-use the expansion between Lysaker and Sandvika as an example, the expansion will lead to a doubling of track capacity. The time between Skøeen and Asker will be reduced from 20 to 13 minutes. In addition, traffic will be more punctual. So, the Oslo project is in progress. In addition, the NSB has ordered 50 new train sets. I would like to follow up on the challenge of ordering multiple train sets. In addition, old trainsets must be upgraded and the basis laid for a much better train offer from 2012. This is the positive rug, but I remind you that the challenges we have are big. The trouble we've seen on the railway lately is that the maintenance and renewal of the lines has not been prioritised high enough in recent decades. Last year's harvest started positively with increased punctuality and regularity, and we saw and saw the effects of extra appropriations and increased efforts. From December and in winter it has been and are a big problem. The hard winter this year has made it extra challenging. We also see that in other countries, where winter has also been marked by long periods of cold. Old trains and old infrastructure have not been good enough to deal with strict cold and good, old Norwegian winter. Crisis measures are being implemented, both by the Railway Agency and by the NSB – buses, extra people and tin capacity. The Oslo project is planned to be completed in parallel with the new double track between Lysaker and Asker, and at the same time with the first of the new train sets to be in place. This means that there is a parallel focus on investments, maintenance and material. The debate is often turned against funds, and of course it is crucial in many cases. The railway company has received the money they have asked for, both for maintenance and for renewal measures in the Oslo area. Now, not the biggest problem is money, but the lack of professionals, both in the signal field and in other disciplines. Many of the hands and heads we needed now ended up in the sector while the Bondevik II parties planned to compete with large parts of the railway works. In February 2005, everyone in the Railway Agency was offered a final package. This, together with the increase in activity over the last four to five years, makes competence a critical scarce resource. Then the Progress Party talks about a new round of structural changes. I would strongly warn against that. National transport plan 2010–2019 requires the use of DKK 322 billion for transport over the next 10 years. In other words, we will take a big boost for road and rail in the coming years. The largest project in the current NTP is a railway project, double-track Oslo-Ski. It is a particularly important project for traffic management in the eastern region and has therefore received its own budget line – separated from the other railway projects. It is very important that this should start quickly. In this debate, it is mostly about the big-city problem and how to ensure both commuters and freight traffic a better offer through the Eastern region. As I've tried to show, we're doing well. More needs to be done, but it takes time to reverse a situation which has been as out of course as it was in relation to transport and rail before the government change in 2005. I also remind you that trains are running in other parts of the country, which is also going to have its necessary part of the appropriations in the future, we are going to do something about this. I think it's nice and interesting that the Progress Party has been so busy by the railway. Before 2009, that was not the case. We have to bet heavily on urban transport and built in the years to come. We think that is very wise. We're going to do that by working purposefully and not four inches. The objectives of the national transport plan are to be met, so that we ensure both jobs and jobs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2282	I want to start by thanking the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, for the interpellation, as I thought is very important. I record Hoksrud’s intervention in the interpellation, i.e. that it has been worse in terms of punctuality since 2005. Then I'll tell the Council of State that I'm happy with the arrangement. I thought the councils have been very tidy in relation to the Storting. She has come to Stortinget and done the right thing about the request. I look forward to debating it at a different ratio. A challenge for all of us in this room is among other things. designated for Stein Nilsen: ‘There are no credible plans for a new Jerban-Norway. Not even for the nuclear sections around Oslo.» At night, he asks: ‘Are there no plans to get out of here?’ He answers: ‘Not meeting customers’ expectations. There is no funding, and not complete plans for InterCity. The train effort made in Norway today is incomplete.’ It's a challenge for all of us in this room. The representative, Gorm Kjernli, is talking about revolution or under. I don't know if anyone in our committee believes in revolution, but there are some who believe in under. Nevertheless, there may be grounds for helping. That's why I think there's a need for a wide deal. That's why I think we should go together in this room. I have experienced that we have been quoted from the Scriptures today. But in this context, we are all sinners. The challenge is that we should now be able to work together. We've done it in other large areas. We have done that in connection with taxes, pensions and the environment. Then we've gone together to solve the challenges we've had. It's a challenge when the plans we have, which are on the table, that are adopted here, will give us a train challenge for decades to come – NSB says 30 years. I would like to mention what is called Climate Change, which comes from the government's own body, which has pointed to a number of challenges. What do they say about the railway? They say: ‘Railway is the most energy efficient mode of transport and a transition from other modes of transport to the railways has a good impact on greenhouse gas emissions. This requires large investments, far beyond the framework of NTP 2010-2019.» [[...]] That's our challenge. The head of the Central Statistical Bureau, Øystein Olsen, says the same thing that my politicians have forgotten the old promises. When we adopted the rule of action, we said that what we were just going to spend on oil money was infrastructure, railway, road, research and education and taxation. We see that we haven't followed up on what was the intention behind that. We need to do it, even in relation to the climate challenges we face. But it's not just a challenge in terms of climate and environment. This also has to do with capacity and a space situation. We know that by 2030 we expect growth in Oslo to be 39 pst. In Akershus we expect a growth of 34 pst. We know that in these two states there are today 1 million people. By 2030 there will be 1.5 million people here, and by 2055 there will be 2 million people in Oslo and Akershus. If we're going to solve it just by building a road, we need 18 blocks from Sandvika and into Oslo. Then the train must be one of the solutions to which we can coordinate. It is absolutely necessary that we be able to solve not only the climate challenge, but also the daily challenge of the many who travel to and from work in the central Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2319	I would also like to begin by commending the representative, Hoksrud, for an important interplay and commitment to the railways. There is no doubt that a rapid upgrading of the railway system is essential for solving the environmental and prosperity challenges we face, especially in the Oslo area. I have been in the Transport and Communications Committee for four years and have listened to how former Minister of Transport and several of the members of the Government have blamed Bondevik II for four years in government for everything that is bad and difficult in the railway sector. Surprisingly, the current Minister for Transport continues this tradition – after five years in government and with a historical use of money, as we are constantly hearing. I am delighted with the debate after today's presentation. However, I will try to avoid the same trap, which is to blame for everyone else, but rather be an active driver in order to solve the problems for our commuters as quickly as possible – and today’s interpellation can help. There is a very timely question the interpellant travels: Can upgrading the railway track in and around Oslo be made faster if more capital and labour are added? The left means yes, and we're in a hurry. Therefore, in all our alternative budgets, we have spent about DKK 1 billion more each year on increasing efforts to upgrade, use capacity and renew rail and infrastructure. And there's labour out there that wants to contribute. In the 2010 budget, we also proposed an additional allocation to start planning new capacity through Oslo. The Oslo Tunnel has been the subject of a number of problems in train traffic due to a lack of maintenance. It has also provided the rail system in the East with significant vulnerability by being the only east-west link through Oslo. Today, the tunnel has two tracks, and so on, westward towards the Drammen. However, four tracks west of Oslo and nine tracks east of Oslo are now planned within a few years, while there will still be only two tracks through Oslo. It goes without saying that the Oslo Tunnel will be a bottleneck in the local and nationwide railway system with today's plans. For this reason, the Left has promoted a proposal in the UK to step up efforts to resolve the train crisis in the East, and we have proposed that we start planning new tunnel connections through Oslo, so that it can be completed within a decade. This is a demanding and costly project, but is necessary to ensure capacity. We also call for the full renewal of the rail network in the internal east, on the Oslo S-Skien – Lillestrøm-Asker route, so that this network comes up on a standard equivalent to the Gardermobanen by no later than a five-year period. It will provide trains with the necessary quality of the infrastructure so that we can avoid major delays and settings in this critical area. The Council of State has not yet responded to the main challenge of this interpellation: what is right – is what the Railway Agency says, that they get enough money and can't spend more money, or is what the NSB says, that they have room for faster investment than today? This I expect the Council of State to respond to, otherwise she has not answered this interview, as I see it. Then I have to correct a repeated fault in the case of signalling systems. I quote from the Landevik II Government deposit proposal from that time, and it concerns conversion: ‘The railway works hereby become an order and builder of railway infrastructure development and maintenance tasks, with the exception of the maintenance of signalling and telecommunications facilities.’ It is therefore wrong, as the Council of State has said before today, and now also the representative of Sjelmo Nordås, that signalling and telecommunications systems were also exposed to competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2339	Although I have to be much more characterised as a locomotive commuter than a locomotive commuter, I understand the frustration and irritation of passengers who have experienced delays, cancellations of trains and lack of information for many weeks in a stretch, back to a period of 10-20 degrees cold. Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has repeatedly, at the latest today, also highlighted the seriousness of the situation. I am pleased with the presentation that has been made, and not least for the offensive grips that have been taken both to improve the acute current situation and to increase the pace of maintenance and investment, as explained. There is no doubt that there are several decades of failure sins that are the main explanation that we have now had chaotic conditions in train traffic, and that the grip that the Stoltenberg government has taken to get a massive investment on track has been absolutely necessary. I am also pleased that the Progress Party is now finally committed to the track issue – after having been out of the track for many years. But I have a desire to challenge the Progress Party, and perhaps in particular the Blackevik representative, who is very concerned about and sketched short-term measures that the Government is already in the process of. What other measures does the Progress Party consider should be launched? I have also noticed that the opposition is standing up to the fact that it is also being held responsible for the situation that we now have. I understand that it may be troubling to be confronted with past sins – and in fact, in the committee we have two representatives of the Bondevik II government, both of whom have been good at blaming today's government. But the fact is that the railway policy of the Bondevik II government was embarrassing. The 2005 draft budget of the Bondevik Government for rail was after four years with the power of little more than 13 million. kr over the 2002 budget. Then I have been kind and ignored the price increase. The budget for operation and maintenance had fallen by 200 million. kr. In 2005, Bondevik & co. Railway 4,3 billion kroner. This year – five years later – we are spending 8.4 billion dollars. In fact, the Bondevik II Government, where Committee Chairman Knut Arild Hareide was Minister for the Environment, proposed a cut in the appropriations for the draft budget which they presented in 2006. The red-green government has taken hold of this situation from day one after we took over the government offices. We reversed the proposal of the Bondevik II Government on budget cuts. We have started work on rebuilding the rail system's competence after the Bondevik II administration distributed final packages, the activities that were put out for competition, and thus seriously weakened the railway system. I also take note of the committee chairman's willingness to settle, but a settlement also involves a willingness to cooperate. I must say that I believe that part of the committee leader's outcome against this government is not a citizen of cooperation. A few weeks ago, the chairman of the committee criticised, among other things, The government to have trained the pace of Lysaker-Sandvika development. The fact is that the Bondevik II Government's proposal for a cut in the 2006 rail budget meant a zero-kron allocation to Lysaker-Sandvika in the draft budget this year, while the progress of the plant totalled 270 million. kr. So this happened when the same Hareide was the Minister for the Environment and was co-responsible for the proposed budget. A settlement is therefore now proposed — nine months after the adoption of the national transport plan and two months after its entry into force. I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party proposed NOK 0.1 billion more than us to orbit in NTP – NOK 0.1 billion in ten years. On the right, no one proposed a plus to the railway investment in NTP, which has recently entered into force. The red-green government has started a massive bet on the road, on the track, on the road. In the long term, there are solutions to the problems of train traffic. In the short term, the solution lies in implementing many small and large measures, as the Minister for Transport has gone through thoroughly today. The solution does not lie in privatisation, reorganization or other equivalency. Hard and targeted work is simply required at all stages to ensure that the next winter is better for train commuters and freight forwarders.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2358	We're talking about the importance of an efficient railway. So it wasn't the Working Party, the Center Party, or the SV that took up this interpellation. On the contrary, it was the Progress Party, and it seems to be very critical. If this had been important to today's government, it's a matter of course that some representatives from the government's parties had taken up an interpellation that just highlighted the issue that we have today. Nor is there any doubt that when the Progress Party gets criticism from the representative Solhjell that we wanted to bet more than NOK 6 billion more than today's government on the railway, it falls on its own unreasonableness. But we have to take on board that we have huge challenges to put in place an efficient railway, which must not least be forward-looking. In this way the Chairman of the Committee is absolutely right. Now I do not know whether it is miracles or revolutions that are necessary to put this in place, but it can be seen that the policy being pursued today is not a targeted enough policy to solve today's problems, nor was it under previous governments. I have to say that I am almost said to be shocked when I hear here today by the Council of State that it is quite natural to have a crisis meeting about. Once a year, because we don't have a railway going and coming when it's going to Norway. I am even more shocked when I hear that it is not a matter of course that the train should go. Yes, if we have that attitude to the railway that the railway can come and go more or less when it finds it too good, without keeping any of its own routes, we get what we have ordered ourselves. This doesn't last. It is a paradox that the weather gods are more relevant to the punctuality of the railway than both the railway works, the NSB and the Council of State combined. We experience that cables fall down, we experience a stop in traffic, we experience cold shocks that result in cracks in the railway as a result of cleaning. Shall we just sit down and accept that these are technical reasons, which put large parts of our own population in a state of inability to get back to work? Or is it, in fact, that we want to stand for a policy that results in efficiency, that leads to a railway that is to trust, and that means that as a nation to the seventh and last, we appear in a way that is far less ridiculous than what it is today. It's missing 850 million. kr to comply with NTP. We also know that financing solutions are chosen, such as: the Asker-Oslo route makes nearly one and a half billion DKK more expensive than necessary — both related to construction time and in relation to earnings. If we wish as a nation to do something about this, we have every opportunity to do something about financing the development of a railway – both through a OPS and through the possibility of borrowing. If you think that the world is such that you have to pay all the cash on the day you build it, there is a lot in the Kingdom of Norway that would never have come into place. I am afraid that if today's financing model is allowed to continue, there is a lot of the railway in Norway that will never be put in place either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2369	I want to thank the interpellant, so do I. It's an important debate he's going to. I would also like to thank the Council of State, which, at the request of the Right, came to Stortinget before today and made a statement. It was useful. But when one listens to the State Council, Kleppa, a few impressions can be that everyone else has done wrong, just not this government – despite the fact that they have now run for five years. I must say that this is the main impression that is left after the day. A lot of references, both the Council of State and other speakers from the position, are used to budget numbers, and refer to how good you are. But I think that if I had remembered the former government councillor Kleppa in her budgets in Bondevik I and the workers' party representatives in the budgets of Stoltenberg I, they would quickly discover that the budget balances were lower than in Bondevik II. Because it's always been like that. That is why it is wrong to compare the budget without imposing strong price increases and other developments. It's been huge. But let's do it. The investment on the railway has been on the blush for many years, including during this government. This government says it spends more money, but the problem is that you don't solve the problems. The trains are standing, and new plans are realized hopelessly old-fashioned, I would say. New organisational and financing solutions such as project financing and OPS are not available. Other countries, including our neighbouring countries, do this quite differently. Large projects – Bothniabanan, Øresund, Storebælt, Femerbælt, yes, it is project financing, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration – separate company organisations with independent companies, possibility of borrowing and continuous expansion. This is not foreign to us in Norway either, we solved both the Gardermoban and the Gardermoen expansion in the same way. So here in Norway, the government is doing the opposite. The Western corridor, as several have mentioned today, takes almost ten years to build, is going to cost NOK 2 billion more than supposed, more than what was necessary according to the figures of the Railway Works. We all agree on the maintenance run, but the Right's proposal for a fund of 50 billion kroner to re-establish this huge aftermath will not support the Government. Unfortunately, the government makes important modernisation reforms such as project financing, organisation and – I would also like to include – OPS an ideological issue. I think that's very bad, because it stops development altogether unnecessary. This is despite the fact that the situation has become quite precarious. The big investment tasks ahead of us simply require that we pay tribute to old ideological thinking and use new tools, so that we get a modern railway in the mid-term – actually – of what the government is putting up with. Let it be said from this speaker once again: the right believes that a modern intercity offer should be put in place, both around this city and around other major cities in Norway, before we realize a high-speed offer. But it must be possible to think more than one parliamentary term ahead, and in parallel with this, to plan for a modern and comprehensive rail network that can really provide us with answers to the environmental challenges, but also with important challenges for the working life, business and mobility requirements of new generations. It is now 100 years since Bergensbanen was finished, 40 years after the major railway operation started in Norway. Now is the time for a marked renewal, and thus the high-speed investigation has its merits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2380	First, thank you to the Council of State for a solid and realistic review of the railway situation in this country. I think it is very wise for the Council of State to point out that there is no immediate solution, no quick fix for the Norwegian railway. It will take time before we get the train running in Norway. Trains which were acquired only in the 1990s and which do not work in cold and snow cannot be replaced overnight. Nor can a signal system that has obviously seen better days be replaced in a sweep. The famous switchover at Skøyen station, which has brought us train commuters such suffering over a long period of time, is still there after 25 years. It's going to take time to replace this. This government has gradually increased the railway allocation over the year. In 2009, Stortinget granted more money to the railway than the railway could use. The same is probably the situation in 2010. I noticed that the chairman of the Committee, the representative, Mr Hareide, now wants a cross-political agreement on increased appropriations for the railways. Then I would like to add that I think it is nice that the Christian People's Party has come to sense and gather in this area after they left the government offices. But the railway is not able to spend more money at the moment, because the railway organisation needs to be built up over time to cope with increased allocations. There is no plan reserve today, and it is going to take – and it takes – time to plan. Moreover, enough planning is needed to plan. The main challenge in the coming years could be to replace the generation of planners who are now leaving the railway, as well as the Road Administration, and to move on to retirement, or to make them stand longer. In my opinion, it is quite frequent of opposition parties who have neglected the railway over the years, who have only cut the railway appropriations, and who are most accomplices in the neglects that have become part of the railway over a long period of time, now to criticise the Government and the government parties for the lack of railway operations. A government that has doubled rail resources and that has given rail more money than they can use, is now going to shut it down. In addition, the Progress Party performs to increase railway appropriations further well aware that there is no need for more money this year. However, this form of double accounting is quite typical of this party. Then I think that the interpellant and several representatives of the opposition parties should take a trip across the North Sea. A study trip to England, which has tried the privatisation experiment as the representative of Hoksrud, among others. Prefects, should be worth it. Or if they think it's too far and too far, they can at least read the last issue of Guardian Weekly, which has a beautiful little description of the competitive situation on the UK railway network, about trains that do not correspond, about a whirlpool of tickets and ticket systems, about passengers that do not get where they are going, but to other places, about train travel that has not been cheaper but that largely cost bottleneck. These are the privatisation experiences, which the opposition should be able to read out from the Riksrevision's review of the acts of conduct, which we have reviewed earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2391	The progressing party uses the outline “shut” and not what Siv Jensen likes to use, “deeply shocked”, whether what is now happening to trains and the solutions that were provided. I must say that if someone had told me that the Progress Party would take up an interpellation about the train two years ago, I would have thought it would be hunting me interesting. Then they had made a suggestion, e.g. whether it is important not to build more trains, because the socialist train project is a threat to private cars. Then the interpellation might have been called it, or then he would have warmed something if it wasn't important to bet on trains, but to bet on motorways. That someone from the Progress Party may be shocked by what's happening here today with the starting point they have is shocking. Because if we go back and see what the Progress Party has done – that is, the party of the interpellant, which has now suddenly become a train enthusiast because there is a lot of dissatisfaction with the train – it is such that when a party went to negotiations with Hareide and Schou in government, one did not go there with questions about whether to add to the railway budget, no one came with a minus. One came to the government of Hareide and Schou and said, "No, we have to cut the rail budget." These are the requirements that came from the Progress Party. So now you try to be frustrated by this government because one has not cleaned up the train chaos, when the explanation is that the Progress Party and the bourgeois parties did not prioritize the train – they actually negotiated it down. Then it's quite annoying to hear that they're indignant that we're snooping at them. I suppose that would just be missing! I don't know if I feel like a very sinner, but I understand that Hareide and others do. When they have mistreated the train so long, it is clear that they are sinners, although I am not the one who judges in those matters! I think we can see that we have managed to reverse the investment on the railways in Norway. We see that we are now spending more money – three or four times as much – but we still have challenges. And for all intents and purposes, Hareide, the challenge of a settlement is fine when the deal is to add more money, that's easy. But does the Christian People's Party come with a proposal for which to prioritise, or is it just to act friendly to the Government that they propose a settlement? What that means is interesting to listen, because it doesn't sound like Hareide's looking for a deal when he's out in the TV stations. Then there's something completely different he's after, and it's going down on the government. I think the Christian People's Party must decide whether they want to be friends with us, or whether they will continue to be rude and play with them a little longer on the right. So a couple of challenges that I thought are interesting, also in relation to what Halleraker and others deal with funding. I think the train has a problem in Norway, because it is being discriminated against. The airline has fees, and they have tax-free. They earn income. They can borrow money, and they don't have dividends. The car rolls off the garden on new asphalt, because there are toll stations that get revenues all the way. SV would have liked to spend some of the money that the drivers run in, on the train, but it seems difficult. But there's one solution. We could also imagine other solutions to get the train fixed income in addition to the budget. So I think it's a dilemma for the Government also that the train is being discriminated against financially. So I'm going to say in the end: I think it's a good idea what the council says she should do, and she'll look at the pace of, among other things. Oslo-Ski extension. Governments have understood that there is no contradiction between building Oslo-Ski as a high-speed rail or as a local track. On the contrary, there is a strengthening if you do two things at the same time and it doesn't cost anything any more, because then there is one going on with the solution of the future, while at the same time solving the problems locally in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2406	It's been a pretty interesting debate. It hasn't been very much about the acute challenges on the railway network, it's become the big lines. And I have to almost try to answer some of the challenges we've been faced with. I think it's important to show that we've never been richer than we've been in the five years of the Red-Green government. The Progress Party has never said that we want English states on the railway network, which the representative Langeland is busy with, but we have said that yes, we want to use new funding tools. We want to look at other ways to organise the Railway Agency, and we think that if you want to meet some of the challenges we face in terms of the railway network. And I would like to see new funding methods, because I feel that representatives from the government parties in closed rooms and around talk very nicely about that we need new funding methods in order for us to meet the challenges we have on the network and on the road network, but I realize that when you come to this room, there will be slightly different conditions. And I have to make a little visit to the representative of Gullvåg, because in the last period I had a pretty enjoyable experience here in this room when it was about the railway, the time the Westfold Railway. Then I felt that the representative of Gullvåg provoked the Council of State, and the Council of State came out of the hall. But that's not the way I've seen the representative of Gullvåg today. It might remind you more of – I think – the Pusekate Gullvåg, because it was a very careful post by the representative Gullvåg from this pulpit in relation to what he has said earlier. But – I just have to say – I'm a little happy. Now the representative Gullvåg wouldn't say this, but I've registered that he's said 50 million. kr to high-speed train investigation is a blank track. I fully agree with Mr Gullvåg on that, it is definitely a blind lead, and it is definitely so that this is money that goes to things other than they should have done. They're going to an investigation instead of doing something about the acute situation we have on the railway network. I still have to challenge the Council of State, because she will not answer so far: Is it the NSB or is it the railway station that is right? The railway company says that you do not need more money. NSB says they need a lot more money, and you need it now. I hope that the Council of State can simply answer yes or no if it is the NSB or if it is the Railway Agency that is right, because that is what this is all about. The NSB believes they need more money, and they need it now. The railway company says they do not need the money. I expect the State Council today to respond to whether it is the Railway Agency or the NSB that is right, precisely because the Progress Party wants to resolve the acute situation of all the train commuters. I think a lot of train commuters would be frustrated sitting in the gallery today and listening to this debate, because you haven't come very much further into solving the acute situation and making sure that this doesn't happen again. The party of progress is a party that sees things change. You have to keep an eye on it, and we are concerned to have the best possible infrastructure on both road and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2426	Let me take the time to comment on some of the many questions raised in this debate. First of all, who's right, who's in debt, Hoksrud asked. Now he asked, "Who is it that's right, the NSB or the railway station?" Let me just make it clear: who is responsible – it seems to me to be a better approach – when the train is standing? It is the Railway Station that is responsible for the loop and the signalling system. It is the train company that is responsible for the train equipment. At the same time, it is the government and the big business that is responsible for it, because it is we who lay the framework within which the Railway Agency and the train company can operate. So the question is, can more money be used? The Railway Agency did not use the money they received in 2009. They asked for $470 million. kr in the Oslo area. They've got the funds. They were uncertain early this year if they were going to use all. Now I think they're going to use them. I'm noticing that they're now saying that they could also spend more money outside the central Austland area. They have said that after the budget was presented. The NSB has notified itself to the Committee, and I have no reason to polemise against the NSB about what they say. So I'm busy with a thorough and defensive planning of what's called a big project, not to train some progress corks on the Vestfold course, on Oslo-Ski or on other paths, but to avoid getting into the same situation as the Gardermo project. It's been created here as an example. The memory is short, it was a NOU of its own. Putting iron is only one of several keywords in one such context. There was a need for an evaluation after the Gardermoban was finished. Contiguous expansion will be underlined here. Yes, it was Bondevik's government that itself announced the gradual expansion of Lysaker-Asker. In this way, it is good that one later comes up with different thoughts. So to shut down and bus as an alternative. The answer is yes, of course. So finally about funding. He who builds a house and has money in the bank doesn't go on and on and borrows new money. There are more funds for the railway now than it has been in the past. But it takes time to improve both the train equipment and the rails. The best example of that is perhaps the ordering of new trains. They weren't ready. The first to come in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2443	The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2457	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2466	The issue we now have to deal with, the cost increase of the E6 Øyer–Tretten in Uppland, needs to be seen in the context of St.prp. No 59 and Innst. S. No 270 for 2008-2009, which was dealt with in this Chamber last June. The project was estimated at 880 million. kr. The main contract price was offered in the autumn, with a deadline of 15 October. It was in connection with the assessment by the road authorities of the offers received that one was aware that some serious errors had been made in the cost calculation. The consequences of this were a cost increase of 250 million. And that's what we're dealing with right now. This increase in costs is very unfortunate. Good enough work has not been done either by the State Road Administration or in the external quality assurance of the project. Moreover, market developments have not been such as the external consultant used in recommending cost estimates. Although most estimates of costs from the State Road Service are at the right level, it is absolutely necessary to carry out a careful review of the procedures for determining cost estimates. I would like to stress the importance of good cost management in all investment projects in the transport sector. We have to be able to expect that we will avoid similar issues in the future. Having said that, it is very important to start implementing this project, which represents the first stage of the new E6 north of Lillehammer. This is a highly accident-affected road, and the development will lead to safer conditions on the route for all road users groups and much better accessibility. The extension of the Øyer-Tingberg parcel provides road safety E6 from Lillehammer to Thirteen with a continuous local road and a one-way and cycle path. In addition to reductions in the number of accidents, the project will also reduce E6 by 2 km. This is time-saving for road users and good for the environment. The road project is important both for local traffic in the Gudbrand valley and transport between parts of the country. These effects, despite the increase in costs, result in high net benefits. With regard to funding, it is foreseen that the increase in costs will be covered by the State, the Toll Company and the Uppland County Municipality. Upland counties have joined the revised financial plan unanimously. I recommend with this majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2481	This I'm going to do short. Therefore, I can use one of my minutes on a little visit to the previous case and the Council of State, where she herself used the picture of house construction. Let me just repeat what I've said before, that no one would build a house for themselves as the state builds a railroad and roads. It's quite true, as the Council of State says, you don't go out and take out loans if you have money in the bank. It has the Norwegian state, it has the Norwegian people. But we can't combine that we're one of the richest nations in the world to get up the investment rate on the infrastructure because we doubt a view that investment in the railways and the roads is actually a cost. There's the big challenge, the big key and the big problem that the government can't solve. So this case, the cost increase on the E6 Øyer–Treet. That's what I'm going to do. The project is still very important. We in the Progress Party still want this project to be financed by state resources. We proposed this when the main project was being launched. Therefore, it is natural for us to propose that this increase, the exceedance that is now coming, also be covered by the state. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. Fortunately, it's rarely diet that we get a crack of almost 25 pst. As far as I remember, the total frame is almost NOK 1 billion on the original project, and we are now told that there is a further NOK 1 billion needed. It's because there's been some serious errors in the calculation. It has been explained by the department itself. That, of course, is very worrying, very regrettable. Both the Progress Party and other parties assume that the Ministry of Transport is following this closely, and that the Council of State is actively reporting it back to the Stortinget. Calculation errors, methodological errors and control errors that this case brings up to Stortingen, we shall avoid, we shall be saved for that, and of course we cannot accept that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2490	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2493	This case is not about a road project. No, it is unfortunately about poor planning, alarming exclusions, and unfortunately not about what could have been a new four-field parcel on a very unfortunate E6 through Gudbrandsdalen. In June, however, we dealt with the road project Øyer-Treet itself. At the time, the majority in this room had a desire for a more forward-looking solution, for a road with good traffic safety, what we called the narrow four-field road. The majority also pointed to the large volume of traffic on this route, with a summer traffic of over 10000 vehicles per day. To this end, the right took the initiative of a broad majority comment on changing the standard to narrow four-field roads. In other words, the common comment was an order for the department. Because of the broad majority, there was reason for optimism. But no, we were briefed that this would lead to postponement and one, albeit small, cost increase on the project. It could not bear the project, even though the majority had given the opening for the tunnel, which was much more costly but regulated to four fields, to wait. But so no for the sake of progress and the economy. So after a few months, we feel that not only is the project delayed and the case delayed, but the entire project is 250 million. kr more expensive. This is clearly well room for manoeuvre in the financing of the project. And the delay -- yes, it's self-inflicted because of unprofessional handling, so then. The Council of State itself describes its own misdemeanour as follows: This is not good enough work, this is very unfortunate, yes, she even writes that bad work has been done both in the state road system and in the quality assurance work. KS2, which is called, should reveal possible errors. When not even the obvious errors mentioned here are revealed, there is in fact reason to raise questions about the entire KS2 scheme. It's a costly system of expensive consultant fees, but in this case it's useless. What is most unfortunate in this case is that no OPS solution was chosen for this project, as proposed by the Right. Right received support from the Christian People's Party and the Left to realize the whole of E6 through the Gudbrand Valley as OPS Parcels. First Thirteen-Øyer, then the parcels north and south of it. If we had agreed to this, we would have avoided the matter we are dealing with today. We'd be building. We would have a forward-looking four-field road through the entire Gudbrand valley in record time. Traffic forecasts are far too cautious, and we are now building a path adapted to yesterday's development, not the needs of the future, and we are building in an expensive way. So there's a reason to ask a couple of questions: Does the State Road Administration and the Department teach any of this? Do such failures like this have any consequences? I think I'll end it and hope I can get an answer to this during the Council of State articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2510	When the development project E6 Øyer-Treett was presented to Stortinget in spring 2009, the costs of the project were both internal to the State Road Administration and externally through the external quality assurance system. There was nothing then that could indicate that the estimate of the cost was more uncertain than usual. However, when the main contractor price was announced in the autumn of 2009, it turned out that there had to be a cost increase of 250 million. kr. The cost increase is due to the fact that it was done individually, in part grossly, error in the estimate of costs. This is due to the fact that several items in the estimate of costs were undercalculated, including: rigging and construction costs. The cost overrun is serious, and it is particularly serious when the overrun is due to the fact that not enough work has been done in the preparation of the development project. This shall not happen! The question has been asked today: Does the Department learn any of these things? The answer is yes. I'm going to make sure that work is started on going through the procedures for setting cost estimates to assess whether there is a need for changes in these procedures. Then there is no doubt that the project E6 Øyer–Treet is a good project. The new E6 will provide a better and safer road for road users, and the emergence will be improved by the fact that the new E6 will be about 2 km shorter than the existing road, as the case-leader has done thoroughly and well. In addition, a coherent local road network and pedestrian and cycle road network will be built. It will also contribute to increased road safety in the area. I believe that it is important that the project be carried on as originally based on the Storting. The Road Administration had agreed with the contractors concerned to postpone the grace period pending the management of the proposal for a revised cost framework for the project by Storting. I am pleased that the Committee in the configuration has joined the Government's proposal, stressing that the project is important both for road safety and for the development of E6. The Stortinget’s treatment of this matter today will provide the basis for a safe and secure route E6 Øyer–Treet, so that it can be completed in 2013. So I hear different representatives here have the floor, that they have different views – on the width of the road and on the financing. The more important it is for me to praise the progress that the Committee has made in this project. The big thing got the proposition on February 5, we're writing today March 9th. There is every reason to commend the Committee on the way in which they dealt with this matter. Then I understand that there was a great responsibility for ensuring the necessary costs for the afterlife. Let me stress that I am the last person who is interested that there will be exceedances in several projects. I understand that from time to time there may be uncertainty about the total cost, but I am busy getting the most possible way for the money, and the most possible way for the money that is being cleared. After all, there will be no way to get more than one in several projects. So I'm going to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2532	I think this was a good post from the Council of State. That gives us reason to hope that we can get a little bit closer to these things. No one disagrees that it is important for this project to progress as quickly as possible, but I pointed out in my contribution to the paradox that we were told that it was not possible to get to this narrow four-field road, which would be a road safe, precisely for reasons of progress and economics. And then this happens anyway, which postpones it, and which requires more money in the budget. I asked if it had any consequences. I also asked if there was any reason to assess the KS2 scheme. I did because I always think it's right to improve our systems. Exceedances I think we have to live with – that's enough to happen in the future – but the fact that the rigging costs and costs of running the tunnel mass out of a tunnel are ignored both by the project management and in the quality assurance report surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2541	I share your views with the representative Halleraker. Exclusion of rigging costs and even quality assurance, as well as finding that rigging costs are not included, is totally unacceptable. So what are the consequences of this? It is clear that the state road authority has also got a wake-up caller – let it be clear. But I'm going to make sure that we're going to review the cost estimates. We need to look very carefully at whether this is in need of change. And let me add that this will be reported back to Stortinget in your own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2548	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is over. [[See page 2231]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2566	The system of organised transport, often referred to as the TT system, is entirely decisive for people who cannot use the ordinary collective service. It's about facilitating an inclusive society for everyone, a society where each individual can use their resources for the benefit of themselves and others. It's about human dignity. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that the TT system should work as well as possible. Full participation and equal opportunities for people with disabilities are an important policy objective with broad support in this room. The quality and scale of the transport service is crucial to our achievement of that objective. I know that the Minister for Transport is busy with the rights of the disabled. In the debate on the State budget before Christmas, I experienced a constructive Council of State in relation to the TT regime. With this interpellation I want to take the matter one step further. We have to put in place a TT system that guarantees their disabled people the right to participate in society in the same way as everyone else. There is a need for a national system of door-to-door transport for disabled people with a high need for such a service, a transport system that gives the number of journeys that take place in order to live a normal and active life. The basis for a political solution is good. A majority of the representatives in this room have answered a clear and clear yes to direct questions about whether they would be in favour of a national system of door-to-door transport for the disabled. 87 of the representatives have shown their commitment and have declared themselves to be active and personal support players. Storing representatives from all parties have joined this goal. It is difficult to see a better starting point for a good solution in TT case. We now have a responsibility to get this into port, after disabled people's organisations have been fighting for a better transport system for 30 years. Variations in different parts of the country are large and random. Most counties offer 2 to 4 individual trips per month. In comparison, the study of travel habits to the Institute of Transport Economics shows that people generally have three daily trips on average. In the most active periods of life, people travel much more. After going back and forth to the store, many people with disabilities have used a fourteen-day transport quota. The parent meeting, the daughter's football training or a movie tour won't fit. I've heard a lot of personal stories. A woman for 40 years from Skåk has transportation for NOK 1,054 per person. years. For her this keeps to four tours at the store during the year. She has nothing left for other activities or personal activities. Her husband must always run kids and follow up his children’s activities. A man from Gausdal in his 30s has a transport charge of NOK 2000 per person. years. It covers four tours to Lillehammer annual. The situation, of course, goes beyond the mere possibility of being active enough. A 50-year-old woman has $2,400 TT a year. Because of large distances in the municipality, this only lasts for a trip to the municipality's center of the year. The TT situation leads to social isolation for many people. They rarely get out of the world, they don't get to visit friends and families, they can't attend meetings or organisations, and the situation is beyond the ability to follow their own children. The blindfold and disabled people's organisations have made good proposals to the Transport Committee on how a national TT scheme for people with disabilities with high needs can look like and how it can be organised. This should not be a special scheme that gives special privileges to a selected group, but a system that ensures the same possibilities for the disabled as for all others. Therefore, the link between the property and the property is underlined. TT-tours should be set at the same level as collective tariffs and, in the case of longer trips, TT-travel should, where possible, be combined with public transport. The TT scheme was a disability scheme from the very beginning. However, a large proportion of TT users today are not really disabled, but they have had problems made up as a result of old age. 70 pst. Today, users are over 70 years of age and about 10 pst. is under 60 years of age. Studies show that the oldest user group is mainly satisfied with today's offer. That's good. A new scheme should not go beyond these. Users who are not heavily dependent on the scheme should still receive a good TT offer from the group in the future as well. A new national regime should apply to those people who, due to disability, are critically dependent on the transport system in order to live a normal and active life. This user group is limited in size. Estimates estimate that a satisfactory provision of door-to-door transport for disabled people with high needs will cost about 200 million. kr. Liability for such a national scheme may be added to Nav. This is what one chooses to do for the schemes of work and education travel. The offer can be given, either as a given number of trips per. the user, or the user may receive a payment card with a certain amount of kroner. For both of these options, the state already has developed technical solutions. Payment cards must be usable all over the country. A system of ordering transport has been developed in individual contexts as a possible solution to the transport situation of disabled persons. However, ordering transport offers little flexibility and is a model that does not work for user groups with high needs. One does not come out if you want or need it, and it may take a very long time to get to the place you want. If you are going to pick up the train, an event, a dental session or follow your children on symmetry, the transportation of orders is not working. Active visual impairments depend on the same flexibility as everyone else to make everyday life go up. In the budget debate in Stortinget on 10 December, the Minister for Transport said that she, like me, was busy improving the TT system. The Council of State showed that there have been many honors for a long time, and that we have not been able to follow up well enough in this matter. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State ensure that the disabled with much need are equipped with a TT system that allows for a normal and active everyday life – no matter where in the country a cage? In his speech in December, the Council of State itself pointed to what will be the decision as to whether we will have a good order in place. It's about the seventh and last thing about counting on the state budget. The Christian People's Party will give priority to TT-saka. We want a solution that allows disabled people to live active and equal lives. In order to retain the necessary lessons and experience, a test scheme can be started in at least two selected states. I also hope that the other parties, the Government and the Council of State will do their job to get this in place, for example. a testing scheme that will provide the necessary experience to improve the national TT system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2606	Better organisation of transport for disabled people is a high priority area for the Government. The concept of universal design has become an integral part of the work and priorities of the Ministry of Transport and State Transport. Both laws, regulations and physical measures financed by the State budget have made the public transport system more accessible under this government. With effect from 1 January 2009, the rules of the new Equality and Discrimination Act were applied. New rules for the design of buses and passenger boats have been introduced. New rules for the design of trains are soon in place. Universal design and accessibility are also one of the main objectives of transport policy, presented in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. Infrastructure and means of transport shall be designed in such a way that collective transport solutions can be used as much as possible without resorting to specific means or assistance. But the area has been neglected for a long time, and the challenges are great. In addition, many people with disabilities will depend on alternatives to public transport, regardless of the quality of collective provision. For many, organized transport, the TT system, is decisive for the ability to live an active life, and it is very important that this system works well. The government's strategy to secure the disabled with a high need for a good TT system is two-fold. Firstly, we want to secure the county councils, which are responsible for both the ordinary local collective provision and the TT system, an economy that enables them to ensure both a good TT supply and a good collective offer. In my opinion, this is the most important thing that can be done to ensure good mobility for all, including TT users. Transfers to the municipal sector have increased sharply during this government. The county councils have gained a significantly larger economic space and far better opportunities both to ensure a good collective offer and to provide a good TT offer to those who are unable to benefit from ordinary public transport. Secondly, we will help to ensure that local collective services are used by the most mobile TT users, so that resources can be freed and used for a better TT system for users with the most needs. This can be achieved by better physical design of the public transport system. The commitment to universal design both through equality and discrimination laws and through state budget promises is important. In addition, the Government has stimulated testing of different operational concepts, including: through the better public transport system in the districts, where the counties can apply for assistance, inter alia: to test different forms of demand-driven transport, e.g. order transport and service routes open to all. These are schemes where users report their travel needs to a transport centre or directly to the bus, boat or taxi operator within a specified time limit and where there is coordination of the individual journeys. Such schemes may provide better use of resources than individual TT schemes. For some TT users, this type of supply is probably entirely acceptable. For children, young people, the elderly and other people without either TT card, driver’s card or access to the car, the provision of order transport is decisive. Its more likely to benefit from ordinary collective services, the more liberal the TT regime can be designed for those users who need this scheme the most. In order to investigate better coordination between TT supply and on-demand transport, the need for TT transport can be reduced without compromising the mobility of users, the Ministry of Transport in 2009 invited the municipalities to participate in a three-year trial where the two offers are seen explicitly in context. Seven counties applied to participate, and there are now attempts to improve coordination between collective provision and TT provision in the Oslo municipality and six counties, Østfold, Telemark, Vest-Agder, Rogaland, Sogn and Fjordane and Nord-Trøndelag. In all trials, the order transport must be expanded. At the same time, adaptations shall be made to the TT service legislation to ensure that most TT transports are carried out with the regular public transport services, including order transport and service routes open to all. User involvement is required of disabled people's organisations, and TT supply is required to be maintained by teams for those who cannot benefit from the expanded transportation service. The aim of the experiment is to see whether such an organisation will release resources that the county authorities can use to strengthen the provision of TT users with special needs, whether the majority of travel for other users can be covered by the extended provision of the transport of orders, and whether the offer increases the mobility of users outside the TT scheme. The ministry will carry out a thorough evaluation of the experiment after three years. So a few words about national guidelines for the TT scheme. It was in the Community economicproposition for 2004 that the Stortinget took a decision asking the Bondevik II Government to develop national guidelines for the TT scheme. This question has been carefully considered. There are guidance guidelines for the TT scheme, developed by the Ministry of Transport, where the criterion for user authorisation, the content of the offer and the procedure itself are mentioned. But in the same way as local public transport, the county councils are the ones who set the standard of supply. The guidance guidelines mainly form the basis for the guidelines applicable to the TT regime in the state. It is then that national guidelines will provide a greater level of non-discrimination than the budget-driven system we currently have under the authority of the county. Challenges may be linked to a system of national guidelines. National guidelines may lead to monthly additional costs, if one is not to accept a poor supply for some users. In addition, national guidelines will break with the established division of responsibilities between the levels of administration and the principle that the size and quality of the provision of public transport are to be determined by the county authorities. National guidelines will reduce the possibilities for municipalities to see TT transport in conjunction with other public transport. As I just did, a solid county economy, combined with a collective offering that can be used by the most, will be a good strategy to ensure a good TT supply for those users who need it the most. The interpellant takes up a very important question here. I have also invited several organisations to the Ministry to ask for advice on possible improvements in the TT regime. The last organisation I met was also the Blind Alliance. I understand their concerns over the county councils and their free incomes with regard to whether funds that may be released are really being used to strengthen the TT regime for those who need it most. The blindfold was creative. They asked for another attempt, one such as could include two counties where a direct link to a TT scheme for those who are unable to benefit from collective provision. I can't promise at this point that I'm going to have additional attempts in the 2011 budget, but what I'm going to say is that I'm busy actually strengthening the TT system. So this proposal and other constructive contributions are something that I think there's every reason to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2632	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I felt was very constructive. I feel that what's the main challenge here is that we have a group of very young active users who don't fit into the pattern of TT users for whom this scheme is designed. We see that for some of the older users who are not so active, this system can work relatively well, while for the young active users who want to live a more active life, the system is not good enough today. I understand that the Council of State can't promise anything concrete in relation to a trial project. But I thought the project that I understand the state council has been presented to by the Blind Alliance is very exciting, where one goes into, for example. two or three states and make an experiment with the group where the order transport is not an alternative. Order transport may be an option if you have plenty of time to plan, you know that you need to do an activity at a certain time, you have a fixed activity and you have a relatively good time. It's not an option for some of the groups that come here. And I'll also say that one of the things that we're experiencing is the big variation that lies here. We should also be so honest to say that fortunately, there are parts of the country that have good arrangements where many of the users are well pleased. But it's a challenge when we look at the national section here, that it varies too much. That's why I mean that getting space what I want to call a national solution doesn't have to mean that we're going away from the terms that we have today. I therefore mean that the trial plan that the Blind Alliance initially wants is to use some states here. I would therefore only like to say that my intention of doing so has been to ensure that we have a debate in Stortinget if we could have a trial scheme that shows some of the integrity of the TT system. I mean, it's not a big deal for many young users who want an active life. I believe that there are too many variations, and I feel that the provision we have for ordering today does not cover the supply for this group. That is why I find it constructive that the Council of State would like to look at a new pilot scheme, even though it cannot, of course, conclude a few days before the budgetary conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2643	Experience is that the best solutions are available in a dialogue with those who try out different schemes. Another experience is that sometimes there is a long way between the ideal solutions and the measures that we can put in place. I still think it is good to stand here today and actually know that there have been significant improvements in this matter in a short time through these two laws that are already mentioned, and that came in the previous growing-up period. There is broad support for ensuring universal design when it comes to both construction and other new installations, and that significant improvements can also be made in everything from construction and pavement to transport of different kinds. That is not least because we are also going in to extend many platforms on railways in the current year's budget. But then it is that if we facilitate, we must also make sure that people are given greater mobility. It is where proposals from various organisations that have experience of signing up are important to include them in the further work. It's also good to know that there are some county councils that are very busy with good solutions, and that use both means and commitment to exorbitant improvement, and then there's a balance in what way. We're going to contribute from the Government and the Storting, and a trial scheme is already in place. I recognize that it doesn't solve all the challenges. That's why I'm also happy that the birthright is understood. I can't promise anything at this point, but I'll follow closely and see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2652	The working party has «All shall join» as slogans, and transport is a prerequisite for an active participation in a number of areas of society. The purpose of the transport service for disabled persons for which the counties are responsible is to provide disabled persons who are dependent on the door to door transport, a transport service such that they have the opportunity to participate in activities in the immediate environment in line with the rest of the population. As the interpellant itself states, there are great variations between the states. A comparison between the states that were made in 2003 showed that Oslo spent almost NOK 10,000 per year. Uses, while the North Tree Layer, which used the next most per. user, used above 5000 kroner. Also in relation to the number of inhabitants, the picture was the same. Oslo spent NOK 372 per person. The population, while also here the Nord-Trøndelag was a good number two with 75 kr per. the population. Although the numbers are old, there is reason to believe that they also illustrate today's situation. Therefore, it is appropriate to ask questions, as the representative Hareide does, about what can be done to ensure a good offer regardless of the place of residence. As the Minister for Transport said in his statement, there are two important measures the Government does. Ensuring that county municipalities have financial opportunities to provide a good transport service to all is important – a good collective service and a good transport service for people with disabilities. Therefore, strengthening the local economy is also good for the TT offer. But it is also a matter of political will among the elected regional groups. That is why, as the formerly responsible county council in the Nord-Trøndelag, I must express my satisfaction with the second place that the Nord-Trøndelag has on the unofficial list. However, there are considerable differences in how it is to operate transport services in Oslo, with short distances, with opportunities to use regular transport services, with opportunities for service routes, and the provision of transport services in a scattered state and a district such as Nord-Trundelag, with large distances and very scattered population, and where the transport service for disabled people usually consists of the transport of individuals in taxis over relatively long distances. Then it goes without saying that you have to operate the transport service in a different way in the districts than in the big cities. That's why we in the Workers' Party think it's a good idea to test out new operational concepts. If I can again allow myself to use Nord-Trøndelag as an example, I will show that there is a test project with public transport in the districts, KID order transport, into continuous bus transports, to continuous speedboat routes or to trains, and in combination with service routes in the large municipalities. It turns out that so far this trial project is a good and very successful project. Therefore, it is appropriate to try out coordination with the TT offer and the so-called KID project. This is to be done in the Nord-Trøndelag, together with Oslo and five other counties. I am quite sure that such coordination will be positive, both for the users and for the county municipalities. Several disabled people will be able to use this, which is the ordinary offer, perhaps with some adjustments. This will be fully in line with the objective of universal design. As far as possible, use the ordinary offer. They don't need custom solutions. This is universal design in practice. If several of today’s transport service users are able to use the ordinary offer, they will be able to release resources to the remaining users who must have their own and customised transport service and to make the TT system even better for those users who still need the transport service. The working party is dedicated to everyone involved. The transport service for disabled persons is an instrument in this context. We have great faith in the trial scheme, and will await the outcome of this. I would also like to emphasise that regardless of what we are waiting for here at Stortinget – if we are waiting for the results of this pilot scheme – it is the law for county councils to give more priority to spending more money on the transport service for disabled people. It may be an equal task for the various political parties to influence their party regionally. It turns out that when there are economic opportunities and when there is political will, you get it in the county municipalities as well. To sum up, we do not believe that national guidelines are necessarily the right way to go, because differences are so large in different parts of the country. This means that different solutions are needed to meet different needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2671	I want to start by saying that I am very pleased that the interpellant Knut Arild Hareide addresses this important matter. This is a case that has been going on and on for many years. Before I arrived at Stortinget, I was a state politician, and I know how the discussion went to get a TT system that would make sure that those who really needed it would get it. There's a lot of discussion around who has it now. It is interesting to hear both the Council of State and the previous speaker – especially the last speaker – say that everyone is going. Yeah, that's very good, but it doesn't help when the differences are so huge from state to state. Then it's not that everyone gets to join. There is quite a difference between what offers you get in Oslo and in Sogn and Fjordane, which I think was the ultimate example on the other side. So there's a difference in the sky between the best state and the worst state. That's exactly why at least I and the Progress Party have thought that it's important to get a national system on top that makes you get the same treatment whether you live in Oslo, in Sogn and Fjordane, in Telemark or in Nord-Trøndelag. This is incredibly important if people with disabilities are to have the ability to function on a daily basis and have a life like any other normal. The point is that you still want to pay for the services you receive, just as others pay for collective services and other means of transport. But you want to have a system that makes it possible for people with disabilities to have the same opportunities as everyone else in society to participate. The councils spoke warmly and beautifully about universal design. I think it's really great, me. I got the opportunity to be with some disabled people who were going from Grenland to Oslo, and that was an experience. We were several politicians who were there, and it was really an experience trying to get wheelchairs into the train, out of the train, into the buses and out of the buses, and all that was of collective provision you have to use today. I very much agree with the intention of the Council of State, that you want to take a lot of action to ensure that universal design becomes what comes in the future and what is going to be there. But it's not the reality for many of those who today depend on TT offers and other kinds of help. I am very pleased that all the candidate countries – at least in my county, Telemark – were just challenged by the Blind Alliance to agree that we should now introduce national guidelines for TT transport. I believe that all the candidate countries signed the agreement; also representatives from the government parties signed the request for national guidelines for TT transport. And then I think it's quite strange – when we once again discuss what we discussed throughout the previous period in the Transport Committee, and as I know they've discussed in the Labour and Social Committee – that you can't put in place a national system that applies across the country and that ensures that everyone gets the same offer. When we also know that someone is offered a few trips a month, while others have quite many trips a month, I think it is quite amazing that we are discussing what we are doing today, and that the Council of State will not meet us any more just to meet the organizations that are very concerned about this. I expect that the biggest representatives who signed on to this, in fact, also believe this after the election, and not that there was something they just meant in the interview of an election campaign. Then I want to challenge the Council of State. It seems very reliable: the TT system is good for those who have it, you have to be able to use collective services and that kind of thing, and it is good that the counties have this responsibility. So the challenge is that if you use your TT card as a disabled person to get to Oslo S, for example. to the state council, Rogaland, then you cannot use the TT scheme in Rogaland, because it is the municipality of Oslo that administers it, and the money is to be used in the municipality of Oslo. It's pointless, and that's exactly why we need national guidelines. We also believe that it is Nav who is going to fund the scheme, precisely because there is no discussion about where to use your trip, whether it is in one or the other state. It should be the same as anyone else, you should be able to use it where you need to use it. That's why I think it's important to put in place a national system, and I hope that the Council of State – even if she was a little repulsive instead, at least in relation to 2011 – will think about once more and put in place a national system that also gives disabled people a decent life and can act in the same way as everyone else in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2684	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. The TT system is an important instrument for achieving the objectives of the Discrimination and Gender Equality Act. For those with reduced mobility, the scheme is an important contribution to their quality of life and the ability to participate in society in line with others. Today, as many people have been involved, responsibility for the follow-up to the TT system has been added to each state. Thus, disabled people are given the priorities of the counties, and as we have seen, this varies greatly. This reflects different policy priorities, differences in collective provision and different geographical conditions, of course. At the same time, we know that some states are very conscious of their responsibility, for example. Here in Oslo, which, according to both the new Handicap and former Minister of Transport Navarsete, actually has the best TT offer in the country. What we think in the Right is nice to register. At the same time, we know that other states have such a poor supply that users report social isolation and difficulty in getting involved in important activities. This is not good enough. Therefore, the right supports the strong desire of user organisations for common minimum standards in order to achieve a more equal practice in the different county municipalities and to improve the quality of the scheme. We have been involved in proposing this both in the national transport plan and in the budgetary context. Unfortunately, until now the government has chosen to vote this down. The right has also supported the proposal to place the TT scheme within Nav as well as work and training trips and basic support for the transport and car welfare system. A comprehensive administration of all the different modes of transport will help to assess the overall needs of each individual transport in terms of work, training and leisure while avoiding the significant discrimination currently taking place. It must be the responsibility of the large community to prevent discrimination against a large group of citizens who, due to the lack of transport services, are excluded from participation in society. The right therefore regrets that, although we have had many good intentions here today, the government does not yet want to set up to ensure this important national scheme for those with the greatest need. People with disabilities in many parts of the country need the government to set up, change attitude and contribute to action. So I think we're going to agree quickly after this interpellation debate to ensure that everyone has an equivalent TT offer. It should not be so difficult, especially for the Workers' Party that several times today have referred to their own slogan 'All shall join'.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2699	The TT service needs to be improved. I think there's a very broad consensus on that. For those of us who have worked on this topic, not only in two major periods, but in almost four, there are probably more who have had the opportunity to do something about it over time, but the changes have not become big. But I know that the Minister of Transport we have now is concerned about the topic. And I also know that not all Ministers of Transport have been particularly concerned about this topic. All transport debates are largely about road. I guess that's good. A lot of people are about the railways, and I'm going to take part in them. Then there's someone who's about universal design. There I always attend. Not all transport politicians have been particularly concerned about it either, so there is a lot left after many years of neglect. It is such that it is necessary to ensure that transport applies to everyone. It's not just that everyone has to come. They're going by bus, but someone's not coming by. Then we have to give them some other possibilities. I am concerned with universal design, but it will take many years before the collective system is universally designed. It costs a lot of billion dollars. I have been in discussion with disabled people's organisations for many years. They have in principle been very concerned with this question. I've said that I'm going to work what I can for universal design, but we need a TT service as well. We're going to need it for a long time, because this is going to take time. There are major differences across the country, as many have said. It comes from the fact that this scheme has been linked to public transport. I believe that the TT system is not just public transport, it must also be something more. That is why I am very pleased with the proposals that have come from the Blind Alliance, and also the attempts that the Government has made, because I think we are on the right track. There's someone here who's been talking about the elderly and the young and different needs. Yeah, that's right, that's right. In different states, the approval practices for who receives this scheme are very different. In my own home country, there are very many older people who get it. In the Uppland state, there are half as many users and completely equal population. There are also some differences, so you might have to clean up a little bit here. If you put in place a good order or service route, it will catch up with many of the older users who really just need a good public transport. They can use an order route, so you get a lot of those in the TT service today, on that arrangement. Then you are left with a door-to-door transport system for those who cannot use this system either. I believe that the binding to public transport can then be loosened, not at price, but at availability, because then we are in an area where the transport needs are different from others, because there are people who have no choice, and – to put it that way – most of them cannot drive a car, and they cannot use public transport. It's an important task for us to make sure that they can live an equal life, because that's what it's all about. Then there are questions about national guidelines. I think that public transport is a municipal responsibility. The part of this is about ordering routes or service routes, is county responsibility. But I think that if we're going to put in place a system that ensures the door-to-door transport for those who need it, we have to look at some ways to ensure this, with greater equality across the country than what we have today. I think that the principles of equal transport opportunities for all are more important than the division of tasks that we once agreed on. My experience is that if there are different arrangements across the country with a very large amount of discretion, it works very well for groups who are able to exercise great political power and fight and fight for their rights, while those who have problems with it, simply because they may not be able to transport themselves where the decisions are taken, are much more dependent on the law-making of national policies and security in the schemes. Then they are able to be equal and to uphold their democratic rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2718	This is an important interpellation, for those who do not want an active life could carry out practical tasks, follow up children and grandchildren and participate in various activities. It made the impression when the moor-bench had visited by the Blind League, when a lonely father with an eye disease, who has made him gradually more and more feeble, did not have the power to follow up his child any more. It's positive with good neighbors who like to run with friends for training and other activities, but it does something about the self-esteem that parents do when your child chooses out a leisure activity because dad doesn't have the power to follow up. I see the demise you can feel when you don't have the power to stand up for your children. And when the public fails, with the framework conditions made available, it's pretty bad. The usual challenges of everyday life are enough in themselves if not a theme such as transport should also be an obstacle. I agree with the representatives who have called for a national regime. More and Romesdal, my home country, is a disaster in terms of the TT offer. The transport service was reduced by 10 pst. from 2009 to 2010. The blind and the feeless do not ask for alms or a free system, they like to pay what corresponds to public transport, but the bus is not an alternative. They need a door-to-door system – which we've been talking about today. Those we met had used up their vouchers before February was over, value coupons of NOK 1200 in six months. What do you get out of that? It shouldn't be that it was the value coupons that tents, it had to be the number of trips in the six months that were the most important. Then think of the user who lives away, and there are several of them in my home country: When he went to the store or on a medical visit to his municipality centre, the entire voucher for the first six months went on one trip. The transport service of jobs and educational institutions should be a matter of course, but also here a ten-year trial project was completed, and new users unfortunately get a no to this scheme. With the system that we have today, many blind and faint are isolated. Many in this group are critically dependent on an up-to-date TT scheme. A TT scheme can also save society from excessive expenditure in the longer term. Several would have escaped a life in near isolation. It means a lot for mental health to associate with others and participate in society. This plan would have cost $200 million. kr. Then the feeble and blind with a great need would have received an equivalent offer. We should be able to afford that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2737	Let me first of all thank the interpellant for a very important and long-awaited debate. It is correct, as the representative Andersen said in his statement, that this matter has been discussed many times in Stortinget. I myself, with only five years behind me in Stortinget, discussed it up to several times. And then let me take a little historical look. For June 2008, Mr Stortinget dealt with draft representative No. 85 for 2007-2008 by the undersigned, Kenneth Svendsen and Kari Kjønaas Kjos. The background to that proposal for a representative was a major decision back to 2003, when Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The Government is asked to draw up national guidelines on the quality and quantity of TT transport during 2004 and to propose a financing mechanism for TT transport in line with national guidelines.’ It was decided by Stortinget, but was not followed up in any way. I know that, among other things, In 2007, the FFO, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, met with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport Steinulf Tongesvik, who promised that this matter would be taken into account in the 2008 State budget. That matter has not yet been resolved. It's been seven years since Stortinget decided that we should put in place national guidelines, without anything happening. At the same time, I record that the Government in its first political platform, Soria Moria I, says that you want an improved TT service. That is also said in every debate – and has done so all the time – without actually happening. It disappoints me. I think that's a shame. I hope that the current Minister of Transport, as well as the current Minister of Labour, will address the challenges we face on the TT side and bring about a better system. I would like us to have put in place national guidelines and an overall funding system for this. I note that it is not desirable by a majority in the UK, because if I do not remember correctly, the current party leader of the Council of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, who was formerly Minister of Transport, wrote in a letter to the Labour and Social Committee on 20 May 2008, when we discussed this proposal for a representative, that costs would become too large with a national system. That view, I think, is still representative of the Government, especially given that we are now seeing a debate around, while we know that until the weekend the government parties are going to start discussing the budget for 2011, and that everyone has been assigned to save 4 pst. I don't think more money is being put in with such attitudes from the sitting government. It's a shame, because that means that economics, costs, are more important than non-discrimination and a valuable offer to users around. I would have liked the user to be the first to be used, and then looked at the possibility of financial resources to make a good deal of money afterwards – but first of all, see the need for the user. That is why I very much agree with the interpellant that outlines a solution that is based on a test scheme. At least let's agree on that, and take it as a starting point, in order to achieve a better TT order in the future. Finally, I understand the last speaker's comments. I am so lucky to be the father of four healthy children – I am myself healthy, and I am happy to follow them on all their activities. What about the parents who can't do it every day — the parents who are just stopped because of transport/communication? I don't think Norway should be familiar with that. I think we should get a much better offer than what we have today. So, of course, universal design is good and good, but it doesn't help how good universal design we have, unless users are allowed to use the offer often enough in relation to their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2758	A newly elected representative is very surprised to hear that this matter has been debated repeatedly in this Chamber. It applies to people who have become the victims of a disease that requires them to have an organized system, and then a country called the world's richest can afford to extend a hand to these people, who need it to help them to function in their everyday lives. It's about help to yourself, it's about help to the children, it's about an active everyday life, where we know that the alternatives are few. We also know that their networks will disappear if they don't get out, and not least their children will be framed and isolated. It is very critical that, as politicians, we are unable to put in place a national system that can provide an equal supply across the country. That Norway, a nation of 4.7 million inhabitants, is going to have a system that's different from region to region, from state to state, when we know that if we compare ourselves to a city in Europe, we represent a suburb, and so there should be 19 different arrangements for this kind of supply, it's simply shameful, in my opinion. National guidelines wanted to correct this in a way that was appropriate and that would give justice to those who needed it. I want to thank the interpellant who addresses the question today. We also heard in a previous post, from the representative Andersen Eide, a description from a meeting that the Møre bench had with a person who was framed by this. I have to say that it made a very strong impression to the right that a father could not be with his child and do what most people could, because what this service represented in value was already exhausted. And the reason was, in fact, that we've had a winter that has our unusual cold, with unusual snow conditions, long-lasting, which has made the resources that the adjacent ones had exhausted. As a result, he had to sit home with his teenager. It's not worth it to my mind. So I hope and believe that a trial plan, which is outlined here by the interpellant, will come in quickly and well, so that we can see if this is what it takes to solve the problems -- these problems that should not be bigger than that we can solve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2767	I would like first of all to take the opportunity to thank Knut Arild Hareide for travelling this interpellation. It's important to discuss it. Although this has been discussed over a long time, it is important that this discussion be kept warm, for this is about having an integrated society, it is about giving everyone equal rights. Even though you have had this discussion and practice in many rounds, we have to admit that we are not in the goal. The system operates today by the county councils, and there have been very big differences in the offer to people. In fact, there are so many differences that this is not acceptable, society cannot relax and rest in this regard. The scheme is intended to meet the transport needs of those who are unable to use collective or private cars. It means that there is actually a very small proportion of people in this society who are going to be under this scheme. Then we have to look at the types of needs that people who currently have this system actually have, because there are very big differences. With reference to the article by Knut Arild Hareide: 30 pst. by TT scheme users are under 70 years of age and only 10 pst. by users under 60 years of age. That means it's not a very large number of people. Today, in some counties, one can travel once per. week to use the TT scheme. I just have to say that as a baby's mother or an active politician, or at all, I have often needed to move out of my house more than once per. week, and I'm going to keep having it even if I get relatively grown up and the children are about to leave home. I actually have great intentions to make sure that there are more people in this country who have the opportunity to follow up their children, and that's what this is all about. And then the State Council of Meltway Kleppa refers to, the universally designed society, actually the main priority. It's the most important thing. I'm a happy bus user for the time being. I live in a city that has public transport that everyone can use. It's a brilliant system, and that means I need to use the TT system much less than I would otherwise have had. It gives room for others, who have greater and other needs for TT services, to use it, perhaps delivery door to door. So, of course, this winter has created very special challenges. There's something about snow, lack of vision, lack of balance or wheels that's not a very good combination, and that makes you maybe have to look at schemes where there's some flexibility in what to do. I think the regulations that are now linked to tightening up the universal design requirement for buses are actually going to have an impact on the next few years. Because there are several people who can now use the ordinary collective services, and the need they have to use the TT scheme may be smaller, because it is likely to be transport stages for public transport. The current pilot project is also positive. It may reduce the need, reduce the number of users in need of special solutions. But no matter how much we organize, there will always be a group of people who will need this kind of special action, and then it's important that those arrangements are actually so that people can live active and participating lives. It's about making sure people can be a little boss in their own everyday life. I may be a little ‘leader’ of myself, but I think it's very nice to be able to decide when to travel, what to do, and not necessarily drive and save up to follow the children on training. It's a little bit about freedom, and all the time you get it, most people will actually have no transport needs more than the most necessary. It's kind of not so exciting to drive a cab if you can take the bus with others. So I think the forward-looking way of doing this is to provide for a universal design of society -- step it up. It is to ensure that the TT system is even stronger for those who need it — and that we will assess some form of stronger national policy to ensure that it is actually covered somewhat in the same way in society. Being forward-looking is making it possible for you to participate and be active.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2795	I want to say that the representative Brandvik concluded a very good debate, and the paradox for us who have been working on transport in the last few months is that we have had a debate where the train chaos has been at the centre. The paradox is that we've experienced some commuters who haven't been so happy – we have to admit – but some of the groups we've been debating in this case, have almost a constant chaos, which I'd say is far worse than many of the train commuters have. That is why I think this debate has been both useful and interesting, and I also think the signals I have seen that all the parties have given have been very good. However, I would like to point out something, because it is correct that we now have a test scheme – which is already under way – in place. But that experimental mechanism will not provide the answers that the group I have chosen to raise in this debate is calling for. So the government doesn't have to come back and say that they want to wait for the trial plan we now have, because what concerns the transportation of orders is a debate of their own. I thought the representative Karin Andersen said it very well. We now see that in Andersen's own country there is also a debate on the transportation of orders. This applies to the group I want to call very active users, and the TT scheme they have today is in a way not adapted to them. That's why I think we need a test, and there will be a need for extra funds to put in place a trial plan. The blindfold suggested that with an annual effect of 30 million. The Government will be able to perform a three-state experiment, covering all of these users. It is clear that if such a decision is taken in the 2011 budget, it will not be possible to launch that project on 1 January 2011 – one will need more time to plan that type of experiment, i.e. that the annual effect here is between 15 and 20 million. kr to set up this pilot project. Then it's also my analysis that costs don't get as big as we think. I believe that in this area the costs are overestimated. It's because when we guarantee flexibility, either in the number of trips or in the number of dollars, I don't think the cost is going to be as high as it's estimated here. Therefore, it is important to have a new test project in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2806	I would also like to thank you for a constructive debate on a very important topic, and I am recording the broad consensus that exists when it comes to improving the TT regime. Many expressions have been used in this debate – one of them is that here we all have some omission sins. There was at some point a number asking the previous government to follow up. National guidelines were removed at that time. I'm going to admit that I'm sitting here feeling that sometimes we have excessive faith in what national guidelines can accomplish. There are some national laws that clearly establish rights and obligations — there are guidelines that determine the same. Unfortunately, it is not the case that all users of different schemes experience the same functioning. But I'm going to take the understanding that now lies with those who have spoken, of the responsibility that rests on those of us who are occupied with universal design. Because if we're busy with it, we have a job to do when it's actually a matter of ensuring equality and equality. I note that a 2003 study on the state of the drug is referred to. At least there's something I'm going to put on, make sure we get an update on what the state is. Advice has been given to different user groups — some are pleased with the experiment that is underway in terms of coordination and public transport. There is something we should look at more closely, and in addition I have registered that there is broad support for the experiment that is going on. I might agree that that experiment doesn't hit everyone as well. So let me repeat it one more time: luckily, in some states, the arrangements are good, but we have to, by looking at how we can move forward, help everyone to experience a good order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2817	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2831	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the 25 minutes working party, the party of progress 15 minutes, the right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the centre 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – they are deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2840	Now we're going to leave the asphalt and the howling railing – the asphalt cowboys have left the hall. We can formally feel the sea air sweeping inwards and hearing the gullies in the distance. Now we're going to discuss the possibilities of the coast for the future. It was at least tempting to open this way, and I hope that the commitment to the other representatives is as great as that signed when I'm going to go into an area that I think very many along the coast are occupied by. Initially, I would just like to address the proposals where the Progress Party is part of the proposal and which have been included in the vote, so that I will not forget it at the end of my post. Then it's done. The message we have to deal with today is, in most areas, a continuation, a follow-up, of the marine mammals policy established in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 27 for 2003–2004. This communication, presented by the Bondevik II Government on 19 March 2004, was significantly more extensive than the one we are currently dealing with. What both of these messages have in common is the good problem description and the good intentions, but unfortunately, the concrete proposals for solutions are almost absent in many areas. That's exactly why you promote the matter as a message and not as a proposition, which would then be able to commit more in the time to come. But at least I hope that in this case we will not hear from the government parties that it is the responsibility of the previous government that there is still too much sales out there, that the previous government should have done something about it, and that if it had not done so, we would have arranged the sewing cases. I hope that at least in this case we can be ashamed of it, because I think we have heard it enough today. When you read the Committee's comments, you see relatively quickly that there is cross-political consensus on what are the major challenges we face. Not least the fact that there is a unanimous committee behind the reference to the importance of also harvesting and winning the resources of marine mammals – whether whales or seals – is a good signal and a good starting point for further discussion. Yes, in fact, it is a unanimous committee that points out the important fact that Norway has a right to harvest the living marine resources based on sustainability considerations and the most widely available scientific knowledge. The Committee further points out that the capture of whales and seals is traditional Norwegian industries and considers that the proper extraction of marine mammals has beneficial effects on the overall exploitation of marine resources. When one has this agreement at the bottom of the processing of the notification, it could be expressed through broad agreement on the main points. I would argue that this is actually the case, despite the fact that opposition and position in some areas of course occupy different positions. It was just supposed to be missing; that's the reality of this house. Since the previous treatment of a marine mammal notification, the EU has taken a decision which in practice means a total ban on the introduction and sale of seals and cell products in the EU territory. In this case, there is a great reason to question – at least as I see it – whether the Norwegian authorities quickly catch up with what was about to happen in this area when the matter was finally discussed in the European Parliament, where EU politicians take their decision. It is also a danger signal that the text of that Decision also states that the EU considers this Decision to be EEA-relevant. I believe that it is obvious that the Government has chosen to take this further to the WTO Dispute Resolution Committee. Then we'll have to wait and see what's going to be the final result when that time comes. But this is a very important matter for Norway, and here we really get to try out whether we are willing to stand on the stand, stand on this side of the industry. I have tried as best I could now initially outline what is the big consensus in the message. I think there's a lot you agree on, and that you're going to agree on, and then we're going to follow the debate further. So I'll go into a couple of single points, and then we'll see where this carries in my further post -- if it's able to whip up the mood towards the big heights and we get a line change here. The government writes in its comments related to the whaling that it is primarily the domestic market that is important for this part of the industry. That's right, when you look at how and how you get your products on the market. Many of us have seen these shots lying along the berth and selling finished products, and they are a positive feature in the cityscape a number of different places. Also in my own hometown, Ålesund, it is a great pleasure when the whale-catcher "Kato" adds berth and we get to buy the whale steak from the quay. It is important that such things continue in the future. It is important that we produce this traditional industry, and it is important that we harvest in a sustainable way. However, the opposition considers that it is too defensive to point exclusively to the domestic market. It is important that we also work internationally, so that we can sell our products at a price that allows this industry to remain unsubsidized in the future. Then it's important that we do an international job in the forums where we can do it, along with Japan, Canada, etc., so that we make sure that the market for these products gets better in the years to come. It's enough to mention that a few years ago we had problems with, among other things. whales' porpoise which remained in storage. We also have to point out that in a world where there is a shortage of food, it's strange that one of the most important and most protein-rich meat varieties we have is not going to be able to sell, so as long as the meat goes on the land and eats grass, it's okay. I hope the world will move on soon. As far as whaling is concerned, at least there is an international impression that it is controlled by some abducted French actresses who believe that the whales can talk to each other. Let's hope that we can do a better job in the future and make sure that we get our products sold. In the 2004 Communication, it was also pointed out that it was important to look at the possibility of starting research on whales other than what we are doing today. These include: 20 whales in the north-east Atlantic that have adapted their life cycle to this marine area. We hope that the Government, along with the researchers, will take a closer look at this and assess it in such a way that we can have the opportunity to open up further catches of other whales. It is an overall committee which points out that Norway has fulfilled its international legal obligations on international cooperation in the management of whales. But it is now time to take the step further and assess whether the connection that we have today to the Whaling Organisation should be changed, and that we should possibly join NAMMCO instead of being where we are per. today. I hope that that could happen. I will go into the self-afraid stone at the end of my post. Selling is also an industry that needs predictable framework conditions. That is not the case today. We see how long it takes to know which support schemes are available. We also see that the number of boats that have now reported that they will participate in this catch goes down considerably. For this year's catch it is estimated that three, maybe four shots will go out to this catch. It goes without saying that the possibility of taking out the number of animals that should be taken out is very limited. When we also see the problems associated with whether we can get the Russians to do their part of the catch in their areas, I'm actually worried. I'm worried that the number of sales in both the East and West ice is going to be so high that we're going to have problems later with sales inward along the coast. The biggest problem I can imagine just these days is related to the coastline. It is dangerous as we are constantly getting reports of coastal areas emerging in more and more areas. We see places in this country where the fishermen themselves say that because of how it has become now, there are problems with being able to eat the fish in some fjord arms. We also see problems related to seas or graying in Porsangerfjorden. We see large colonies show up on the Swabian mountains. This is a problem. It's a problem because the harness eats a lot of fish, but maybe the biggest problem is that in the long run it could lead to an even bigger problem with, among other things. squirm in the fish and that the fish are thus driven away from their own fishing grounds. We can't have it like that. It's time we put our foot down. It's time we put our foot down and said that it's not the harness that's at the top of the food chain. It's time we put our feet down and say we're going to have a sustainable nourishment. We also need an industry where you have a framework that allows you to practice your profession. But then there are some things that need to be prepared, so that this industry can continue. In this regard, I will actually give tribute to the Minister of Fisheries and Coast, who has made sure that there is a change in who can be on the labelling of the sales, who will be going forward, where initially excluded the self-rescue vessels, because it was as a pre-requisite that a person would have to have a solder quota in order to be able to mark the sales – uncertain that what reason, I do not see the whole connection, but okay, I have read that setting. But I think the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast deserves credit for changing this so that they can at least compete on equal terms. There's a lot of respect for that. I also think there are other things you should consider. It could be that a couple of the boats should have the opportunity to participate in crab fishing, i.e. king crab or camshaw crab fishing. Some have also converted so that the crabs can be cooked on board. You also have to be able to look at other opportunities to do research. These are ice-reinforced vessels that have great opportunities, but then, of course, in equal competition with others. Of course, we don't have to get there that we're going to distribute there, because that's when the others get hit. But it is important to be able to participate in the competition that is taking place. I look forward to the debate. It's an important area for Coast Norway. It's an important thing. I hope that through this message and the signals we are now giving to the Department and the Council of State, we will also ensure that we can have good framework conditions in the years to come, that through our decisions and the follow-up to the decisions, we can ensure that there will also be more shots in the field in the future. Not least, I hope that the coast will not once again experience a selinvation as a result of our own accident. It's our responsibility to make sure that that doesn't happen. Therefore, it is better to use the precautionary principle and to reduce coastal populations in particular, so that we can manage prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2886	The President was for a moment in doubt as to whether the expression ‘rejected French actresses’ is parliamentary, but on closer reflection the President realises that the representative has a point. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2893	After all, the size of the stock has asked for a decision to be taken to allow research to be carried out on quotas other than qualifi cations, which the representative is probably aware of. The response from the Government is clear – it is probably also the representative aware of. The answer is that a research catch should not be started. The reason for this is that there is currently not a clear enough scientific need for such research. I heard in the speech that the representative repeated this. For this reason, I wonder about the representative Nesvik – on behalf of the Progress Party – I assume – that we are going to keep reviewing research catches on other qualitars. What's new is what's happened, which makes him repeat it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2900	The background for me repeating this is that I feel that the assessment that has been made has not been done thoroughly enough. That's why I ask you to look at these things again, where the perspective is that we want to expand the whaling, that we want to exploit the marine resources in a better way than we do today. That is why we are asking for this to be re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2905	Prior to this year, central representatives of the Progress Party have stated in the media that they are in order to assess the resolution of Norwegian self-anxiety. I would therefore ask the representative Harald Nesvik to clarify the views of the Progress Party in this matter during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2910	In connection with a case related to faultshooting and damage shooting of the seller, a representative of the Advance Party was outside and said that we must have a quality killing of the selenium, which means that the animal does not suffer. In this context it was said that either you have to do it properly, or you might have to consider that those who do it have to stop that catch. I have full confidence in the quality of that industry in the process of killing animals. The starting point of the propulsion party can also be read by the representative from the setting. We want to expand the number of animals to be taken out, both in order to be able to use it as a resource and in order to prevent fish diseases, kweis etc., so that we get a sustainable nutrition in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2917	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2920	At all times, the ocean giant, the whale, has attracted human attention. Norwegian whaling is of very old date. Evidence has been found that coastal people in Norway have already in ancient times taken feeding from smaller whales. The heavy tax that had taken place only in the 1930s and previous years led to a sharp decrease in the stock of whales. This led to certain limitations. After World War II, it became clear around the world that if the whaling was to be intensified again, the catch had to be regulated so that the whale population would not be destroyed. The International Whaling Commission was therefore established in 1949. The capture of seals and whales is a traditional industry in Norwegian seas. A responsible withdrawal of marine mammals may also have beneficial effects on the total exploitation of other marine resources. At the same time, marine mammals are icons with high symbol values for nature and animal protection. It is therefore very important that Norway has a balanced management of these species and that management is based on a sound scientific basis, professional advice and the widest possible international acceptance. Traditionally, coastline, stone copper and garden have been a desirable resource along our coast. As a result, local populations were almost eradicated as a result of heavy hunting pressure. The interest in coastal settlement declined after World War II. The result was a certain increase in the population of stone copper and yard along the coast, which in turn has led to that, among other things. the fishing industry wishes to reduce the number of coastlines. The authorities wish to mitigate any conflict between coastal zones and fisheries by stimulating increased hunting in order to regulate the stock, while at the same time wanting to preserve viable coastal populations in the natural areas of selenium. There is a need for increased knowledge of coastal and fisheries conflicts, including the role of the coastline in the coastal ecosystem. In Norway, the coastal zone is a source of strong negative reactions. Locally, the coastline can be perceived as a problem and a scourge with consequences for quality of life and professional pursuit. The damage caused by the coastline to fisheries may be grouped into three categories: damage to implements, selenium consumption of commercial fish species, spreading of mercury to fish For those who don't know what horny is: it's a nasty parasite, or a roundworm, that sits in the fillet of the fish. It helps to reduce the quality of the fish by reducing the suitability of the fish for fresh placing on the market or as frozen fish. It is claimed at regular intervals that there are more seals along the coast than researchers can detect. In 1987 we had an invasion of Greenland'ssel along the coast of Finnmark. I am pleased that the communication shows that, in the event of a future selinvation, the Government will use funds to limit the damage and impact on the industry along the coast. In addition, the fisheries and aquaculture industry is invited to cooperate with the researchers in concreteising the damage caused by the coastline to the fisheries and aquaculture industry and on methods of measuring the extent and extent of these damage. I am pleased that the committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee, and that it is cross-politically in line with the policy of marine mammals that the Government is pursuing. This message is available to many in the industry who have also been waiting for it. The work of this government on the policy of marine mammals is mainly based on two pillars: to carry out serious scientific work in accordance with international law; Norway follows its obligations under international law to international cooperation in the research and management of whales and seals. The overall objective of the government is to harvest it sustainably from all the marine resources, including cell populations in good condition. Norwegian self-anxiety is subject to strict and detailed legislation covering fishing seasons, quotas, methods of killing, self-rescue training, vessel approval and control. Each year, the catching people must undergo training and fire tests before they go to catch. All the shooters have inspectors on board. The inspectors are veterinarians — or equivalent — and report directly to the fisheries authorities. That's the way it should be for the future. Driving with self-anguish doesn't make you rich. The financial support provided by the State is aimed at facilitating a profitable industry by providing support for product development, redistribution and catch efficiency measures. The results of Norwegian self-afraid in the last five years show that the industry is still unprofitable and dependent on public support. The market situation for whales and fur products is challenging, but it must also be said that the demand for such products is limited. In the case of whiting meat, Norway and Japan are the only market of importance. In the case of sales products, in particular sales and sales oil, the market has already been affected by the EU’s import ban on cell products, with declining demand and a fall in the price of leather. In the case of skins and oils, the industry is now oriented towards Asia — and it is exciting — to look for new markets. It is based on this Communication that the measures and policies otherwise addressed in this Communication will not trigger new financial burdens to any extent. Nor has this Communication promoted measures that could be expected to lead to any degree of administrative impact. The Government will strengthen and further develop the fishing industry in order to contribute to ensuring sustainable business profitability. There's a lot to say for the districts. Taking care of the fishing culture along the Norwegian coast is also an important element of this policy. If it succeeds in achieving better profitability in the fishing industry, it will have a cyclical impact on the coastal communities in which the fishing industry is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2969	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2973	In my contribution, I was in the EU decision linked to the introduction of a ban on the placing on the market of sells and cell products throughout the EU. As I said, Norway has appealed this case to the WTO dispute resolution system. But unfortunately, we have to imagine that it is not always possible to get through your will in the WTO system. The title of this case in the EU states that the case is EEA-relevant. If this does not lead to the WTO, Norway is obliged to comply with EEA legislation here. In other words, bans are imposed on the placing on the market of sells and cell products in Norway, and then the industry is gone — if you do not choose to take this and veto it. My question to the representative is this: If the WTO says no, will the government veto it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2980	It remains to be seen. Now, the dispute resolution consultation is the first step in the WTO dispute resolution process. It's too early to say if we're going to take the matter further. There is a question that is difficult to answer here today. It's probably a question that the minister might be able to answer better than I can today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2985	In the last five years, efforts have been made to increase the profitability of the self-governing industry, and the representative mentioned it in quite hot order, so I assume that she is satisfied with the effort. Now you can say – at least we know the industry – that you have not achieved profitability here. Does the representative have any views as to why it has not been clear in these five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2990	As I also said, it is difficult to get profitability in this industry. The main instrument of the administration to support this industry has been to grant various grants in recent years. As I also said in my post, there is a subsidy for the reception and vessel stages, both for catch and product development. But as I said, it's hard to get profitability in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2995	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e2998	In such a case, the fresh representatives from our part of the country get a little historical sus, so I was tempted to remember an earlier representative who in a hectic TV debate about whaling had to shoot in that the whale is said to be so intelligent that he sings. Then he concluded with, ‘But is it true that he sang, maybe he’s just banned?’ Some of that problem lies in the matter we’re dealing with now. As the introductory part of the message shows, this message comes as a wish from a previous magnification. The 2004 Communication called for more active management of marine mammals, both for enhanced protection and for increased exploitation of populations. It was also seen that the principle of ecosystem-based management of marine resources could not be met if one looked away from marine mammals. The cultural image of Northmen as fishermen and catchers labors in many ways in the headwinds of today's society. There may not be any pictures either of hay, hacapic or harpoon we show by a Norwegian Norwegian when we are abroad to front Norway’s role as the highest of fisheries managers – and the highest of fisheries managers we can rightly claim to be. For many years, Norway has developed a management environment and management models that are among the best in the world. This is an administration built on the leading scientific environments and on the experience of the coastal population inherited through generations. Therefore, it is with concern that I record that the new message in important areas does not go beyond the previous one. It may in many ways seem as if you are retreating a little to take up the protection interests, rather than facing good governance and not least Norwegian coastal culture. Therefore, the right, together with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, is asking for increased efforts to create international understanding of the Norwegian administration model. For many years, the role of Norway in the IWC, the International Whaling Commission, has been debated. Many have argued that Norway has difficulties in getting an overview of overall management. The review melody has been that after the next year’s annual meeting, we will make an assessment of Norway’s relationship with the Commission. In the opinion of the opposition, it is high time to make that assessment. That is why a proposal comes where we ask the Government to come to Stortinget with a case about this. In the EU, trade in fur products seems to have been left to the same committee as, among other things, is responsible for the internal market in perfumes and nylon stockings. In fact, it is not the committee responsible for fisheries management that is responsible for this matter. It is called the Fisheries Committee – and was largely completely unknown that there were seals and whales in the sea. This is a good example of a good way in modern society to build a great distance from nature. In view of the fact that the EFTA Members and members of the Economic and Social Committee met with the European Union in Brussels on 23 February, Members of the European Parliament's SSC also made it clear that trade in cell products and fisheries management would not be seen in the context of the EU. This clearly demonstrates the importance of Norway’s insistence that ecosystem-based management requires the inclusion of the entire ecosystem and that, in extending it, we take the best interests of coastal industries into account. In the context of the message, we've got a lot of insights into this issue of coastal pollution. There are large populations along the coast of Norway, which give cause for concern. In meeting with Norwegian research communities, it is prudent to be bastant about the share of coastal fish stocks that selenium taxes. The researchers usually say that you know too little, and that it's being researched too little. Canadian researchers, on the other hand, have just come out with research findings claiming that coastal populations are a significantly greater player than previously assumed, both because they eat large quantities of fish and because in search of food they harm even more fish. In that case, it may actually seem a bit defensive that there is no warning of any major research efforts in this field. It is said that stockpiling should be increased and monitoring strengthened, but at the same time it is said that this will not trigger the need for more resources, nor increase the administrative impact. It might actually seem like you're saying one thing, but you're going to do something completely different. Research communities are also working on the problem of population estimates for coastal cod. Here, too, the coastline appears to be a significant predator, and that it is not possible to give reliable figures, the research again explains with too little effort and too little material. Coastal cod is at risk of getting on the red list, and this complicates the management of coastal fisheries significantly. There is yet another reason to increase the focus on coastal populations. My clear advice after listening to the researchers and the coastal population is to increase the extent of coastal drift. This is the reason for proposal number three from the Progress Party and the Right. So to the last one that's the self-anxiety industry. This is an industry that is experiencing significant difficulties in obtaining profitability in its operations. In addition, it wears with considerable resistance based on emotionally charged articles from nature conservationists. As the whaling industry, this industry is also dependent on support and assistance from political authorities. The framework for sustainable operation is difficult, and the market has a significant impact on actors with a completely different agenda. In this case, it is particularly problematic for the Department to show considerable rigour in clarifying the operational framework for the season. Here we are at risk of losing competent fishing environments. The noise surrounding the reporting after the last season clearly shows that more should be done than weaken these environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3026	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3029	I note that Right will maintain that a system of concessions is to be put in place for qualification and sales. The representative, Bakke Jensen, is often out loud and low and requires simplification and that business needs more care. Does the representative, Bakke Jensen, think that a new concession scheme would help to make the industry more competitive and simpler?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3034	No, not necessarily. What we have said is that we are asking for a concession scheme for the self-governing industry to be examined, and it is also a wish that has come from the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3039	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3042	The notification of Norwegian marine mammals policy extends across a wide field. The policy of marine mammals has many facets – from wave whales at Svalbard and Jan Mayen to copper along the Norwegian coast. Therefore, there are many different problem settings that need to be resolved in such a message. The starting point for Norwegian marine mammals policy is the efficient management of marine resources and an ecosystem-based management. It is important to ensure biological deficiency in the long term, while at the same time controlling a fallout by resilient populations. There is just this important balance process that the Government adds to the message. Important berebels in Norwegian marine mammals policy are serious and recognised scientific work and anchoring in international law. If we fail in this area, we will not only harm the industry, it may damage Norway’s reputation in general – and it may in turn harm other industries. It is important that actors address this challenge. The Norwegian administration of qualification is based on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, on a scientific basis and on the International Qualifications Commission (IWC). The government notes that there is no consistent basis for catching large migratory quarks other than wave quarks in Norwegian waters. It is important that the Government closely monitor this population in accordance with recognised management practices. Otherwise, the government finds that there is no basis for opening up research catches to other qualications. The detention Norway has committed itself to this matter, which has led to little international criticism by the Norwegian administration today. It is not least that the Government has focused on an administration with anchoring in scientific data and an internationally recognised administrative principle. It is important to pursue this policy in order to maintain a good international reputation. Fishing for ice-cream is an industry with long traditions. However, despite significant state support, the fishing of ice-seas is not economically viable today. The government has raised questions as to whether the catch is accelerating subsidisation. In order to improve profitability, new products are being developed, but industry is still dependent on public support. It is important to work towards economic viability and independence from subsidies. It is also important for public support to contribute as much as possible to profitability and to ecosystem-based management and capture. Coastal fishing also has long traditions in the country. Today we see that the coastline creates fresh debate in many cities. The fishermen experience the coastline as a problem for coastal fishing. One of the challenges we're facing is that fishermen and researchers don't have the same perception of stock size and consumption of fish. Here it is important to have good cooperation between fishermen and researchers, so that you can get a common understanding of the facts. There is a provision for the sustainable development of the marine resource base as a whole. Self-product is an important tradition in a maritime tradition. It is positive that efforts are now being made to preserve this tradition through the ‘Self in local culture and fjord development’ project. The government is engaged in international acceptance for the Norwegian administration of marine mammals. Therefore, the Government places great emphasis on research and research-based management. The government also attaches great importance to the dissemination of research-based information to the international environment in order to enhance the understanding of Norwegian fishing and Norwegian management. In all catches, it is important to address the ethical aspects of killing and to focus on minimising suffering. It is therefore important to have strict rules on fishing methods and methods of killing. Both industry and government have a great responsibility here. SV is pleased that in this area, too, the Government is committed to acquiring knowledge and actively promoting advice and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3066	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3069	The representative said in his statement that it is important to get profitability in the industry, and that the government has contributed, almost significantly, to product development to make this industry profitable. In the setting and the proposition, it is shown, among other things, to commit in 2009 ‘whole’ NOK 295 000 to a pre-project to increase commercial use of sales skins. Does the representative think this is a wonderfully good proposal that will save this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3074	A part has been made to facilitate product development within the industry. Now I don't think I said that there was a significant effort, but there's been a lot of effort, and there's some of what we're saying here that we need to focus more on making the effort that's being made to make the industry itself competitive and not depending on so much public support in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3079	The representative said in his post that it was important to have a balanced administration, and that the industry carried out a responsible operation, so that operations did not go at the expense of other industries. Could the representative perhaps clarify to me how much strain the industry should be able to take on account of other industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3084	I think I'll try to clarify what I said: I said it's very important that we run a management that we do today, which creates a good international reputation, in order to avoid a negative reputation damaging other industries. It is not said that it is a burden, it is just a clarification that if we run good management, we get a good international reputation. It's important to everyone, including other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3089	In the message we can read that the reason why self-afraid is put on hold is that many shots are old and not optimally equipped for self-afraid. The answer that was given to the Right question says something quite different. It says: ‘It is not planned to establish a concession arrangement for a sailing and whaling vessel. For self-frightening vessels in particular, the economic prospects are important for the possibilities of long-term planning and in this case a concession scheme will not entail any changes in that way.» What is the real reason why SV is against a concession scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3099	We mean that the system we have today works in a good way, and we don't see any reason to change the system that works reasonably well. So I expect the Minister of Fisheries to be able to elaborate on the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3104	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3107	I notice, initially, that there are representatives along the coast who are most active in this matter. And it says something about the commitment that this message has also awakened along the coast. The centre lot will underline that Norway’s right to harvest the living marine resources is based on sustainability considerations and best available scientific knowledge. We point to the fact that the capture of whales and seals is traditional Norwegian industries, and we believe that the proper extraction of marine mammals has beneficial effects on the total exploitation of marine resources. Taking care of the fishing culture along the Norwegian coast is also an important element of this policy. If we succeed in achieving better profitability in the fishing industries, there will be ring-effects in coastal communities where fishing industries are established, many of which have been the subject of the debate. I have also noticed that the Government has actively opposed the proposal for a ban on the importation of Norwegian cell products into the EU and that they will now work actively to mitigate the effects of the EU ban on Norwegian cell products, among others. through the WTO system. Whale products are mainly sold on the domestic market in the form of whale meat. Although the industry is non-subsidised, the industry’s profitability is weakened. The central party is therefore pleased that the Government announces that it will continue the important work to ensure that trade in whale products between Japan and Norway is normalised, and indicates that Japan is an important market in this respect. Nevertheless, the Central Party is of the opinion that the domestic market will continue to be the most important market and that it is essential to make this market work, which the industry itself must continue to work on. The parties will demonstrate that the Government has consistently promoted Norwegian interests in relation to the processes that have taken place in the EU in advance of the prohibition on Norwegian cell products, but that no Norwegian views were reached in this case and that the ban on imports and placing on the market of Norwegian cell products is now a fact. However, the centre party is pleased that the government is pursuing this matter in the WTO dispute resolution system, and we have noticed that there have been dispute resolution consultations with the EU on the matter. At the same time, we believe it is important that further efforts are being made to develop new products based on marine mammals in order to make industry more sustainable in the long term. The Norwegian administration of whales is based on the best available scientific basis. The scientific evaluation of the wave whale population by the IWC has provided the basis for Norwegian administrative practices. We point out that there is no clear Norwegian research need for research on other whales now, and we therefore support that it is not added to research catches on other whales from the Norwegian side. I would also like to refer to the letter from the Council of State to the Committee dated 5 February 2010, which states that there is a clear need for broad international cooperation in research and management related to whaling, that today the International Forum for Cooperation in this area is the IWC, and that the Government wishes to contribute to the normalisation of the organisation. The same letter states that no concession arrangements are planned for whaling vessels. The centre party is committed to managing the coastline within a sustainable framework in such a way that the damage potential is kept low. We have noticed that work on management plans with long-term management objectives and strategies is now in the final phase, and that once this work is completed, mechanisms will be established for international evaluation of the scientific basis for the Administrative Council. The centre party is associated with the management plans and coastal stock targets set out in the Communication. We also support the proposal that populations with standard methods and monitoring of reproduction to the coastline be strengthened. The centre party is also aware that cell products are an important resource in the maritime Sami tradition. We look with interest at the project ‘Self in local culture and fjord development’, set up with the support of Sametinget, and for which the Committee has also received a good description in meeting with the representatives of the Sametinge. We see it as positive that in this way it is actively working to lay the foundations for the conservation and development of the maritime Sami culture in coastal and fjord areas, and thus exploit the selenium positively. Catches of marine mammals such as whales and seals are important historical industries for Norway, and further fishing will have positive effects on the exploitation of other marine resources. The Central Party welcomes the fact that the Government has just highlighted this in the Norwegian Maritime Mammal Policy Communication, and notes that Norway will continue to play an active role internationally in the future in order to obtain the widest possible international acceptance for Norwegian marine mammals research and management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3133	The President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time of the evening meeting is over and will propose that the evening meeting continue until the current map is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3138	On Friday 26 February this year, we can read in an article by fishing candidate Jo Inge Heshevik that as early as 2005 large flocks of oats/gray could be observed in the Porsangerfjord. Among other things, what is called Tamsøya, 150 animals could be observed in February 2005. The animals lying on that island consisted of approx. 21 tonnes of predators. Since the centre party is relatively concerned with other predators, it can be mentioned that the total population of the large predators gloat, yolk, wolf and bear together amounts to approx. 16 tonnes, i.e. the selenium only in this area represents more than the total population of predators in Norway. My question to the representative is this: how much more extraction of these harnesses will one make sure to do precisely in the Porsangerfjord and along the coast to ensure the interests of the fishermen and so that it is the man who is at the top of the food chain, and not the crying?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3146	I am pleased that the representative Harald Nesvik has found out that the Central Party is very concerned about the kind of predatory policy to be pursued in this country, and I am absolutely sure that the representative Nesvik is also concerned about. As regards the taxation of selenium, I would point out that the government has increased the allowance significantly. We are concerned that stock growth should be regulated, and we are very concerned by the Central Party to follow this development closely. As I pointed out in my speech, long-term management strategies are now working on coastal stocks, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Fisheries will address this issue in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3155	Several have not asked for the word for line – Harald T. Nesvik, to line no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3158	Since the occasion arises, I will follow up what the representative said in his reply to me. The representative says that there has been a significant increase in coastal shedding. In the document with which I am involved and handle at least, it is written by the Government that the population of stone copper should be kept at the 2006 level. How significant, then, is the withdrawal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3163	The quota has been increased significantly. When one goes into some areas and some species, I will show that it will certainly come back to the Minister for Fisheries. What I can stress is that the Centre Party is engaged in the management of these resources that allow a proper development of the fishing industry and other industries in this area as well. From our side, we will follow this development closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3170	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3175	The President noted that only two lines were given to each representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3178	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3183	- No? Then the representative gets the third line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3186	Thank you for that, at least according to my Rules of Procedure! Another area in which the Central Party is also very concerned is the EEA, and at least the EU and the internal market, of which one does not want to be part, correctly. If Norway and Canada do not submit a complaint against the WTO dispute resolution or any of the other WTO issues, is my question: Will the Central Party take the step of vetoing Norway, if necessary, against Norway also having to impose a ban on the placing on the market of seals and cell products?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3193	This issue has also been raised in the debate in the past. Now it is the case that we are going to go round the systems that are already in place with regard to the WTO dispute resolution system, and there are consultations with the European Union that are now under way. Besides that, you have to carry out these processes before I can say anything more about what will be the outcome of it. Then we'll have to follow this case carefully. It's a big commitment, and I'm very happy that there's such an commitment around it. We will closely follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3200	Then the President is absolutely sure that the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3204	The management of marine mammals must be ecosystem-based and follow the precautionary principle. The report on marine mammals sets out the follow-up to the decisions taken by the Stortingen when the previous notification of marine mammals was dealt with in 2004. In particular, I would like to highlight positively the need to continue the quality and scope of research on marine mammals. In addition, research and veterinary competence in animal welfare and animal health shall be maintained. The taxation of marine mammals in our marine areas is very low in relation to the populations. At the same time, we know that marine mammals consume hundreds of thousands of tons of commercially important species of fish, and that the self-anxiety industry is struggling economically. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that the EU has adopted a ban on the sale of cell products. Norway needs to play an even more active role in getting the widest possible international acceptance for Norwegian marine mammals research and management. The Storting Communication presents little of the importance of working internationally to gain an understanding of the background of the Norwegian maritime policy. We therefore promote proposals together with the Progress Party and the Right where we ask the Government ‘step up efforts to gain international understanding of the Norwegian administration of the marine mammals population’. In this context, it is also important to contribute to broad international cooperation on research and management related to whaling. We cannot see that the Stoltenberg government has succeeded in its work towards the IWC, and we are therefore promoting together with the Advance Party and the Right proposal to ask the Government to ‘perform an assessment of links with the management organisation in terms of whaling and submit a case on this to the Stortinget immediately after the IWC annual meeting in 2010.’ The Committee has received more input from the industry on difficult conditions. Developments in marine mammals have been very negative in the last five years. The Federation of Fishing Shipowners considers that the Government has helped to strengthen Norwegian self-anxiety to a small extent. In addition, the industry is struggling with a lack of predictability. Whales and self-fear shoots shall be allowed only a short time before they are to proceed to catch, clear participation, support and fishing regulations. In order to improve predictability, the Christian People's Party will therefore have in place a concession arrangement or another type of foreseeable approval arrangement. The Christian People's Party also believes that the Government, in cooperation with the industry, must intensify its efforts to create more sustainability for the industry. This applies, inter alia, to: by contributing to the development of new products based on marine mammals and to the provision of legal market access for Norwegian marine mammals products. We have challenges with coastal populations, which eat relatively large amounts of fish. This has a negative impact on fisheries. I would also like to underline the contribution of the Sameting that coastal fisheries in the northern regions should be increased, so that the level is between 30 and 40 pst. lower than today. We're going to listen both to the Sameting and to the fishermen, who follow closely on the stock growth. In St.meld. No 27 for 2003–04, presented by the Bondevik II Government in 2004, a more active management of marine mammals was envisaged. We are going to exploit the stocks it can be harvested from, while respecting international law and following the precautionary principle. I hope that approach can be a general guide for the future management of marine mammals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3234	The majority of the Committee has a comment which reads as follows: ‘The majority are pleased that the government is concerned with ensuring methods of killing with minimal suffering and stress for animals.’ The Christian People's Party, as far as I can see, has no comment on humane methods of killing. Isn't that an important issue for the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3244	Of course it is. Of course, we also want humane killing, so that's not what's why we're not on that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3249	What action would the Christian People’s Party take if they had the opportunity to increase profitability in self-employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3254	When the Bondevik government presented its big message in 2004, there was a completely different and more offensive policy underlying it. It was assumed that other types of vessels than the old self-afraid fleet would include: be granted a concession. It was also thought that recruitment to the self-government industry was improved, profitability increased and catches increased so that Norway’s quotas could be better used than they have been in recent years. So there were several suggestions on how to increase profitability. There could be concessions for ships such as: could be used in other forms of nutrition, including: vessels used for tourism could also be used for whaling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3259	After the strong criticism that we heard in the beginning, I ask again: In addition to what has now been said to get profitability – concession and tourism is one thing, but I think it needs more – I am still interested in hearing where the Christian People's Party will put in action. Several measures were mentioned. Which one?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3264	It is to manage in a sustainable way, it is to exploit e.g.: the harness in a better way. We have a fantastic nourishment in my home country that operates with cell products. You can use cell oil actively. It's going to be very exciting what's happening in the EU now. The projects we have started to harness the harness are very exciting. Here are many things that can be done to get a better profitability in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3269	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3272	The Bondevik II Government presented St.meld in 2004. No 27 for 2003–2004 on Norwegian marine mammals policy. The Communication gave a broad review of the policy area and launched a series of measures that the government wanted to pursue in order to achieve its policy objectives. The communication was widely welcomed by the Storting and provided the basis for long-term and holistic approaches to the management of marine mammals. During the examination of the notification, it was decided that the government should return to Stortinget with a new notification after a certain period of time. St.meld. No 46 for 2008-2009, Norwegian marine mammals policy, is a follow-up to that Decision. The content of the Communication explains the follow-up to the measures launched in St.meld. No 27, as well as the other decisions taken by the Stortinget in its examination of the notification. Harvesting of whales and seals represents on a Norwegian scale small industries with few prisoners and relatively small processing and distribution activities on the land side. This, for its part, represents specific challenges for the authorities to facilitate maximum profitability and efficiency in the performance of activities. International conditions particularly characterise the framework conditions of the marine mammals industry. The situation in the International Whaling Commission and the EU decision to stop imports and placing on the market of cell products are examples of processes that challenge management and industry in a particularly resource-intensive way. At the same time, Norwegian marine mammals policy is subject to some strong criticism from a number of individual countries. International criticism is at the heart of Norway’s right to self-determination in relation to the sustainable use of our natural resources. The government's position on that point is clear: as long as there is a scientific basis for harvesting sustainable populations, other, political considerations will not prevent us from doing so. Overall, national and international challenges call for a broad range of instruments in some demanding interactions. It is therefore important to ensure cross-political integration of marine mammals also through a separate communication to the Stortinget. St.meld. No 46 for 2008-2009 states that it is this government’s desire to stick to the broad lines to which the Storting joined in 2004 and to take further action in order, in particular, to strengthen the knowledge base and ensure the long-term and sustainable management of our marine mammals. At the International Whaling Commission's annual meeting in 2009, we had to admit that the work on getting the organisation into more functional forms had not worked. The IWC's problems have a history that stretches back decades and has its roots in a strong polarization between catchland on one side and catch opponents on the other. The conclusions of the 2009 annual meeting therefore came – unfortunately I must say – not as a surprise. At the same time, there was a strong willingness among Member States not to give up the experiment and to recognise that the work started should continue until the 2010 annual meeting. The position of Norway in the IWC is clear. We stand on a safe footing in international law and in science, and our whaling is hardly disputed on such a case-by-case basis. Norway may set the quotas for which there is a scientific basis and as permitted by a responsible resource management. For Norway, in other words, the situation in the IWC is not an administrative problem. At the same time, there is a clear need for international cooperation in research and management related to whaling, such as for fishing and catching of the living marine resources. As a starting point, the Government continues to have an ambition to contribute to the normalisation of the IWC. The government wants to be quite clear on that. It's IWC as per. current date is the International Forum for Cooperation in the Research and Management of Whaling. However, to what extent we will reach the goal of normalising the organisation remains uncertain. The uncertainty about the future of the IWC as a management organisation was an important justification for Norway’s participation in the establishment of the North Atlantic Maritime Animal Commission in 1992 — NAMMCO. As a responsible resource manager, we wanted to make sure that we had a regional cooperation organisation in place in case the IWC would collapse. This relationship with NAMMCO also applies to this government, while NAMMCO has strengthened its role as management organisation for small whales and seals since 1992. The catch quota is set on the basis of an allowance calculation model approved by the Scientific Committee of the IWC. For 2010, the Government has set a wave whale quota of 1,286 animals, 885 of which are the base quota and 401 have been transferred as the unused quota from last year. In the last year's season, 484 wavy whales were caught. Whaling products are mainly traded in Norway and the industry is responsible, both on the sea and on the land, for most of the quota being taken and distributed on the market. Whaling traps and shore-based reception units need to work together to improve their overall effectiveness and to increase the strength of the whale meat in the Norwegian market. Globally, Japan is the only market that can receive whale meat of importance. Since it was decided to re-open the market for the export of wafer products in 2001, we have therefore worked specifically to open up the Japanese market. An agreement with Japan for the export of whale meat was put in place in 2007. The agreement was negotiated with Iceland. The first export lot of Norwegian and Icelandic whale meat was sent in May 2008. While the Icelandic product batches entered, Norwegians were rejected due to excessive levels of lactic acid bacteria. We have from our side arranged for the regular export of wafer products to Japan, but Japanese health and sanitary requirements must be respected in order for the batch of products to be approved for import. The Norwegian whale industry must be actively involved in the treatment of the whale meat intended for export to Japan. Here, the authorities are constantly having good dialogue with the industry. So, for the self-anxiety industry. The Committee's recommendation suggests that it should be harvested sustainably from all marine resources, including cell populations in good condition. The government will continue to facilitate a sustainable harvest of sales based on scientific advice. Cells form a natural part of the marine ecosystem and are an integral part of the multi-population management of our marine resources. We must therefore continue to work to ensure self-reliance, export and product development. Self-employment is a small industry, but it has long traditions in Norway. The industry has over time experienced significant economic challenges. This has helped to get shots active today. Substantial public support related to the self-anxiety activity itself has proved to be a necessary tool for maintaining the industry. For 2010, I have decided to support self-anxiety in the West ice within an upper framework of 7.5 million. kr. Maximum grant per year vessels will depend on the number of vessels going. If they want operational alternatives in addition to self-gang, they must initially obtain them within the framework of the rules in force. The industry is also challenged internationally. The EU has adopted an import ban on cell products. It is a clear attack on self-anxiety and Norwegian resource management. Even before the ban has entered into force, we have seen the effects on the market for cell products, with lower turnover and lower prices for leather. The government believes that the ban violates the EU’s international trade obligations. As has been mentioned here this evening, we have held dispute resolution consultations with the EU, and we will consider taking the matter to a WTO panel. In this context, compliance with the Norwegian Self-Anxiety Code is essential. The authorities have done a great deal of work to obtain acceptance for Norwegian fishing. If it turns out that there is a breach of the law that weakens confidence in Norwegian self-anxiety, we are very serious about it. Therefore, such cases are followed up by the responsible authorities. We live up to our obligations to ensure the long-term, comprehensive and sustainable management of our seas. The government wants to maintain the prevalence of coastline and ensure viable populations within their natural distribution areas. Coastal stock growth shall be regulated within this framework in order to remedy damage to the fishing industry and other interested interests. The government is working on long-term management strategies for coastal populations. The work on the strategies is in a final phase and will be completed after the Storting has addressed this Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3325	In its contribution to the importance of maintaining both the traditions and the capture of seals, the Council of State points out. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Government reports that the industry has been characterised by low profitability, and that in the period after 2004, grants have also been paid, which have varied between 11.1 million. SEK and 15.9 million. kr. Then, for the current year, we have seen that the ban on sales of sales of sells and cell products in the EU has caused prices to fall further and that there is reason to believe that profitability is also falling. At the same time, the government set the grant for this year as low as 7.5 million. kr. My question to the Council of State is this: Isn't the Council of State not afraid that this is the closest way to cracking the industry because the difference between subsidies and prices is so small that it is no longer profitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3332	As the representative pointed out, there's an upper frame of 7.5 million. kr for Norwegian self-anxiety in the Vestisen for 2010. What the final amount of the individual vessel is, it's a little early to say, all the time we don't have the exact number. But on the basis of the overview that I'm sitting with today, I'm assuming that the amount per. boat will be the same as in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3337	Last week, the Council of State in Stortinget was to answer questions from the Right about the framework conditions for the self-governing industry. In addition to regretting the fact that the Council of State had to come to Stortinget to answer such questions so closely within the debate on the notification of marine mammals, the Minister failed to answer my question gallantly. That is why I would like to repeat it today. It is probably only the doomsday prophets who do not want predictability in the feeding industry, and for the self-government industry, it is at least important to have as predictable a framework as possible. The ministry has experienced several criticisms from the industry that the season framework will be ready so late. This year you'll actually feel that they're coming later than ever. My question will then be: is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast is so late on track in relation to the season of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3346	I should have liked to have seen that everything was clarified very much earlier. Predictability underpins the work of the self-growth support facility. It has been such that from the time the budget was discussed and until this scheme was put in place, it has taken some time – not least about being in dialogue with the industry, to look at the individual elements of it. It's always been assumed that we're going to continue a level in line with what's been in the past. As I said in my previous question, with the overview I'm sitting with now, and with the interest related to fishing, there will be such a regime for this year as well. But I repeat, I would have liked to get it in place earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3353	I have the following two quick questions for the Council of State. Question 1 concerns the fact that we have heard the representative of the Swedish Government earlier in the debate, pointing out the importance of providing grants or funds for product development, and that the Government does so. Then my question to the Council of State is: how much do we give in 2010 to product development? Question 2 to the Council of State relates to the fact that we know that after the EU has taken its decision, the problems of selling sales of seal products have increased and that prices have fallen. My question to the Council of State is this: what specific measures has the Government put in place in retrospect of the EU decision to bring up the sale of our products in other markets, for example: in Japan, to counteract EU action?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3362	In the case of the subsidy for self-growth for 2010, it is defined as a fixed grant of DKK 800000 per year. vessel. There is a value-based support for meat and bacon set at 300 pst. of acquired value, for skins up to 200 pst. and for other products up to 100 pst. With regard to what is directly linked to pure product development measures, I have not answered that this evening. I must be allowed to come back with an exact answer to that. Then there were questions about specific measures to raise sales of products. There is also some of what I have to be allowed to come back to, in the sense that now the focus has been linked to – item No. 1 – to deal with that matter against the WTO, and – point No. 2 – the state aid scheme for self-growth for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3371	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3374	The committee reading and debate this evening have shown that there is a strong consensus on the management of our marine mammals. That the government is breathing in the neck of the opposition in terms of creating international understanding of the Norwegian administration of marine mammals, I think I'm living with. Also, the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party to increase the catches of coastline, I can, for my part, go a long way. But I would like to stress the comments of the government parties, where they are concerned that the stock should be managed within a sustainable framework, and in such a way that the level of damage is kept low. The work on management plans with long-term objectives and strategies is, as has already been mentioned here, in the final phase and mechanisms will be established for the international evaluation of the scientific basis of the Management Board. I agree with this knowledge-based approach to administrative practices, which is a way of working on which I hope to get growing international acceptance. Then I will address the situation in Froan nature reserve and landscape protection area that was established on 14 December 1979. This is the Norwegian coast's second most important breeding area for coastal farming, i.e. yard and stone copper. The reserve was created to protect an animal, an exciting flora, bird, seal and other mammals. In the reserve it is prohibited to land during the breeding season and it is prohibited to travel on the breeding grounds of selenium. In the landscape protection area, it is allowed to land, but hunting is not allowed. Since the introduction of the protection, there has been a dramatic development in the cell population. It's a dramatic development. Selenium is known at the top of the food pyramid and has no enemies. From a local point of view, there is a desire to evaluate developments in Froan after the introduction of protection. It has not been met by the environmental authority. I'm sorry. A management plan for the area of protection has also not been put in place. That is also regrettable. I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast to take with him a greeting from his colleagues in the Government that there is great local impatience in relation to this, and to ask for it to be put forward in this matter. So over to the management of the coastal population, where I probably have to admit that I'm completely at the edge of my field of competence. I understand that the stonecob is easy to tax, while the garden is both difficult and cloudy. And just ten pst. by the quota recommended by the researchers is removed. So here, in my opinion, you have to look for more methods and strategies. Maybe take out something at the breeding stage, what do I know? At least there is a need to press this theme to achieve sustainable management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3385	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3388	This is currently a lost case. Reasonable hospice of nature represented by self-anxiety is banned by the powerful EU, and banned by the ban on sales and sales. The Inuits themselves in Greenland feel failed by their Scandinavian brothers. There was a clear appearance at the Nordic Council meeting, where the Greenlandic Council of State spoke exactly as I do now. The industry also feels that the authorities in this country have done so for their part. And that's sad. The traditional catch environment will disappear. I myself have been allowed to be with one of the self-afraid shots in the West ice, caught a few thousand animals. I thought it was awfully sad that this traditional industry disappeared. A reasonable catch of seals, where one also took out juveniles – I can remember that we took out both blueback and whitening – actually gave income that made a get worth. That's the biggest problem today for the industry: creating a paycheck that allows one to continue, because the government's contribution to the industry is too small when one goes in and forbids the procurement of young animals. We see that urban society no longer needs the hoarding of nature. But yet we see that Spanish bull-fectors still live well, even this by being able to take out juveniles. For the torment I feel sure that it is going the same way. I'm not in doubt for a moment. But also the marine mammals, the selenium in particular, also tax a fishery where the need for larger human food outlets is great and will grow. I'm not in any doubt that the populations are going to come up on such a level that it will affect people's coughing up the fishing, and then we're forced to go in and house significantly more than what we've done so far. A sensible administration will push itself forward, and we'll be forced to house these mammals to create a balance in nature. But then, traditional self-anxiety and self-afraid culture will be gone too well. We see in the notice now that there are only three shots left, and two of them are actually out of the hall, so it goes to the end of Norwegian self-afraid, reports TV 2. And the 45 added to the self-afraid shots "White Bear" and "The White Bear" are cancelled. They have also been involved in a failure in the fishing of royal crabs, which have lost the shipping company for equity. And the profitability, as shown by many, is difficult to get in place today, but it won't get any easier in the future and when this industry is gone, because then one has to design and build new ships, because the old ships are unfortunately gone, and it will cost the community significantly more than lifting the industry today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3403	I feel a need to draw attention to the fact that there are actually also marine mammals south of town, to the extent that they represent a significant problem – not just for fishermen, but it is such that selenium is today a serious threat to the fish population throughout the Oslo soil area. For the coastal cod in this area, the situation is now totally precarious. Overfishing, sprats and seals have over the years decimated fish stocks to such an extent that no cod is soon present in this area. According to researchers, the stock of sales in the Oslo area is not sustainably managed. Selenium was once a desirable resource, even on our edges of the country. The Selenium was hunted for, and therefore the stock was held back. In the 1970s, however, the selenium was completely satisfied in South Norway, from Eastfold to Sogn and Fjordane. As a result, the population has increased sharply. So years later, we get a self-pest, which reduces the population for a very short period of time. In the Outer Oslofjord, there is now a population of about 400 to 500 seals. Worse, there are thousands of people on the west coast of Sweden who also graze on the fishing resources in the area. With solid support in marine research, it is therefore a demand from us who live in this area, that expanded hunting be introduced for sale in the Outer Oslofjord. So in this context, it's about sales and the management of the cell stock. However, this is really about the management of fishing resources in the Oslofjord and Skagerrak areas – or rather a lack of management of these resources. There is a serious danger that we are now standing so that in the recreational area of 2 million people in this country it is soon not possible to hang out a handcuff with reasonable hope of getting fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3413	Representatives from the Progress Party have been concerned about my formulations on support for product development. Then I'll only be allowed to quote from the technical summary in the configuration from the committee. The following is mentioned under 1.3.6: ‘The objective of the State financial support is to facilitate a profitable industry in support of product development, further processing and investment in catch efficiency measures.’ Otherwise I said that there was a focus on product development, not explicitly that the government did so. So there's a bomb from the Progress Party at two points. Point 1: It says in the setting that they themselves have in their possession that the Government uses resources for product development. Point 2: I didn't say that the government is doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3429	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. It's been interesting and rewarding. I look forward to several such debates also on later occasions, where we can discuss important issues, such as this is actually for the coastal population – both for fishermen and for people in general, but also for the nation of Norway. I won't take this any more. I just want to get the replica back to the representative Holmelid. My question was about to try to put into practice these measures that would just get this market going. That's what I'm asking for, and that's what we unfortunately don't see concretely. But fortunately, the Minister for Fisheries and Coast has said that she will come back to that part so that you can get an overview of it. I really appreciate that. I look forward to further cooperation in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3438	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2231]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3446	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3454	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2 by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 4-6, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 7, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1-3 has been included in the setting on page 19, while proposals No. 4 to 7 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3605	It is contested in the third paragraph of Section 30. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3619	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Kinderelova, Section 36 is replaced by the following: ‘§ 36 Each child shall bow firmly Parents can arrange for the child to stay stuck with either one or both of them. If parents disagree, the court may decide that the child should stay with one of them. However, the court may decide that the child shall remain with both.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3641	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Kinderelova, the second paragraph of Section 36 is replaced by the following: ‘If parents disagree, the court may decide whether the child should stay with one of them or whether the child should stay with both. The right shall, by decision, focus on the best interests of the child.’;» The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3660	It is contested in the first paragraph of Section 36. The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3674	It is contested in Section 36, second paragraph. The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3689	There is such an alternative between proposal No. 4, from the Left, and in Section 42, first paragraph, third sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3710	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Kinderelova, the second paragraph of Section 43 is replaced by the following: ‘Parents agree on the scope of the right of access in the light of what they think is best for the child. § 31 other piece of debt for parents. In agreement or decision on association, attention shall be paid, inter alia, to the best interests of collecting parental contact, the age of the child, the extent to which the child is related to the surrounding environment, the distance between parents and the care of the child otherwise.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3728	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3745	It is quoted above in the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 43. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3759	It shall be added to the other paragraphs, paragraphs and sentences of I and to the whole of II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3769	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3779	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3896	We start with I, which concerns the Working Environment Act. The third paragraph of Section 13-3, which shall be deleted, shall be the subject of a vote. The current fourth term is going to be the third term. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3913	The second sentence of Section 13-4 of the second paragraph of Section I and the first paragraph of Section 2 of Section II apply to the Equality Act. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3927	It shall be counted against the other paragraphs under I and II and over the whole of III, IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3937	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3947	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e3955	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4-7, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party 8-10, by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11, by Sylvi Graham on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 12, by Sylvi Graham on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 13–16, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 14 and 16, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4002	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 and 15, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4025	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a legal obligation to provide the Nav coordinator for families with disabled children.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4043	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4063	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 to 10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4093	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4122	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the care pay scheme so that similar cases are treated equally regardless of the residence address also with regard to the amount of the care wage.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4140	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4232	Case No. 7 has already been adopted by the Committee. There is no voting theme in case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4242	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the implementation of the E6 Øyer-Treet in Oppland project based on a revised cost framework based on full State funding. The Ministry of Transport is authorised, through the Directorate of Roads, to raise the necessary loans in order to implement the development. State funding is incorporated into the revised national budget for 2010.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4265	There is no voting theme in case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4271	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4295	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-09.ana.ud1954e4385	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone demand the word a late night before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
