ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e92	The representatives Hilde Magnusson Lydvo, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Dagfinn Højbrätten, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From the meeting alternate representative of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Anette Stegejørdet Norberg, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the remainder of the representative Ingrid Heggøs leave, from 6 December to 10 December, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Brig Samdal, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e124	Brigit Samdal is present and will take the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Heikki Holmås and Erna Solberg on leave from 6 December to 8 December – all to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in Washington from Nikolai Astrup, Erling Sande, Henning Skumsvoll, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Snorre Serigstad Elections on leave from 6 December to 10 December – all to participate in the 16th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Climate Convention, the sixth meeting of the Parties under the Kyoto Protocol, in Cancún, Mexico from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal on leave from 7 December to 10 December to take part in meetings under the auspices of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris from the High Council Group on Health leave for the representative Ine M. Eriksen Soreide from 7 December to 9 December On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Aegean counties: Tor Sigbjørn AussognFor the Hordaland counties: Eivind Nävdal-BolstadFor the Northern counties: Kari StorstrandFor Oslo: Mari Lund Arnem, Afshan Rafiq and Kristin VinjeFor the Rogaland counties: Terje Halleland and Marit AmundsenFor the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Knut Magnus OlsenFor the South Trondelag counties: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e218	Tor Sigbjørn Aussogn, Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad, Mari Lund Arnem, Afshan Rafiq, Terje Halleland, Knut Magnus Olsen and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e226	The representative, Mette Hanekamhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e229	On behalf of the representatives of Tord Lien, Bente Thorsen, Per-Willy Amundsen, Solvency Horne and myself, I am delighted to present proposals for the use of hijab in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e234	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 16.00 until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e263	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to four lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies after submissions by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e274	I will first be allowed to thank the Committee for its very thorough and effective progress in the field of justice and the budget for 2011. Let me just add: the government makes it very easy for us to be effective, even though I see that the government parties in the committee have moved at 3.6 million. kr., which is part of the voluntary service. It appreciates the Advance Party. I assume that all parties will largely talk about their own budget, so for the Progress Party, it will only be short to go through the suspension of the 2011 budget. Let me also say that the 2011 budget is a kind of short-term thinking. For the Progress Party, it is important to look at processes that go beyond 2011 and what is happening in our criminal chain. It is equally important, even though the field records that there is now a risk of deterioration in many areas, both in terms of the fight against crime against police, justice and prosecution, and in terms of care. For the Progress Party – like the other parties – it is essential to ensure the security of life and property. This is a cornerstone of the welfare state and an important basis for the well-being of every citizen. This is why the Progress Party is very concerned about having a well-functioning criminal action chain based on an active and strong judicial policy. The progress party has a zero vision. In order to achieve this, the agencies need to be able to be able to be present and address all types of crime. It goes all the way from street level, what goes on tagging, siblings, armies – what is unmotivated strokes, and can be creative in view of future serious crime. If you avoid this kind of petty crime, you also stop a criminal pattern that can create greater challenges in the future. There is no doubt that, even though the police have been given increased appropriations over the last few years, a decommissioning is recorded. 2010 has shown it, through signals from the police districts and special units. It is still the case that several new graduates from the Police College in 2010 are out of work. This despite the fact that it was perhaps the biggest guarantee from this government – you had to make sure that everyone got a job. That is why the Progress Party has put forward a proposal, which is proposal No. 22, on a commitment once and for all: Once you have increased the recording, and you want more people from the Police College to fight crime, all police students will get a guarantee. Such a commitment gives predictability in terms of resource access — so it becomes final. The aim of the Progress Party is to have equivalent two officials per 1 000 inhabitants in 2020. We can already see that achieving this goal can be a challenge. But that is still the goal of the Progress Party. That's why we've also allocated 310 million. extra to the police operating budget, of which 90 million. kr extra to Oslo, in our alternative state budget. In addition, the Progress Party has ensured an investment budget for the police, so that it is possible to upgrade the police in all areas of equipment so that it does not prevent the Norwegian police from operating effectively and under control of crime control. It may seem that the police are constantly in deficit with those to fight, i.e. the criminals. It is also shown that the government grants with one hand, and then you withdraw with the other hand in the case of investment. Now it's a little bit uncertain how the government is going to achieve the goal of 250 million. kr shall be invested next year and whether it will be deducted by the adopted operational budgets or whether it will be provided as an additional appropriation. I'm a little afraid the first will happen – the same thing that has happened for the current year. It is not that the government in the budgets has done nothing for criminal justice, but unfortunately there does not seem to be any increase. Anyone who tries to create the impression that the Progress Party is only concerned with fighting crime and the police would like to read our alternative state budget, where we want to strengthen to a large extent the need for criminal justice to raise the operational budget – and increase the budget by 55 million. kr. As I said at the outset, the Progress Party also wants to strengthen the volunteers who are working against the criminals – that when they are going to go into freedom, they make sure that they are integrated into society as quickly as possible and do not return to the criminal racetrack. The Progress Party sees that the government has adjusted something in the budget there, but the Progress Party, through its alternative government budget, wants to strengthen the budget by 5 million. kr. I would also like to refer briefly to proposal No. 15th The party of progress has always been concerned about getting a victim and family representative. We hope again that this year we will get a pass on to that. I would also like to make a brief reference to proposal No. 11, who goes to the Civil Defense. Here we have received very, very alarming signals in recent months about the situation in this field. I'm just taking it up quickly – so I'm not forgetting it at the end of the day – the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote, including those proposals where the Progress Party is with other parties. But, as I said, it's not just about 2011, it's about something we have to do in the long term. And I record that the government has many investigations and plans, but for the Progress Party it is important now to take on board that unfortunately the police reform has not been successful. The Progress Party therefore assesses many structures. I record that the government is also talking about it, but the question is whether you are now willing to take the step fully, so that you do not make any new adjustments every ten years. The Progress Party wants to look at the division of police districts first. I think that moving towards the division of customs regions could have made sense for the police districts as well. At the same time, it is important in such a context to also look at the County of Länsmann and Länsmann; it also sees the Advance Party. Perhaps it would have been natural to look at the lumbar division and the lumbar division in relation to the municipal structure. But then I emphasize that the Progress Party wants a municipal structure that is likely to be located in between 120 and 180 municipalities. I think that's the direction we have to take right now, so that we get an effective structure that has one purpose: coordination and joint action across what we call borders today. I'm afraid that all these border divisions we have today, police districts, county councils, etc., are restrictive in terms of combating crime and coordinating in the fight against crime. We also see that we have had some examples of that. I should also like to refer to proposal No. 14, which I believe the government should focus on as soon as possible, and that is to coordinate the specialized units, the training centre, the Police College, and get it in place as quickly as possible. There are old plans that the Progress Party seems to be interesting. It will also have to be seen in the context of, for example: KRUS must have new locations at some point. If you can free up places by building a police high school, and move it, you can hit several flies in one taste. I will end by saying that I find it pointless that the government continues to adhere to the monopoly on DNA analyses, which unfortunately we have seen examples of being worn out in view of the legal certainty of many victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e311	The representative said the government party had moved to 3.6 million. kr. That's not correct. We've increased the budget by 3.6 million. kr. So to the Progress Party's alternative state budget. That's where the Progress Party proposes to wind up all forms of atoning discount, to let private go of prison, to cut $645 million. NOK to Skatetaten, to cut SEK 70 million. kr to the Customs and Fee Set, to cut to the Financial Supervisory Authority, etc. – to us many strange cuts. How does this relate to the release of the Progress Party to be a party to fight crime, against financial crime, against mobile profit criminals, and to the rapid settlement of settlements – yes, simply being a law-and-order party, as the Progress Party itself likes to present itself? How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e320	To see how this is connected, you have to look up the hatches and move out of your own sphere. And I see that it is very problematic for the Workers' Party and politicians from the left to think new; I see that very well. But that is where the role of the Progress Party is so important: trying to get other politicians, who have been sitting continuously for decades and trying to fight crime and lift criminal custody without succeeding, to think again. As far as the fight against economic crime is concerned, the Progress Party has not concealed that we want priorities to be different. When Ecocrim has to run around the beach zone to see if people have turned up a plank bow and so on, it's the wrong use of the resources. Besides, the Progress Party has not increased the appropriations, but we are not increasing accordingly by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e329	The party of progress does not conceal that they have, and have for a long time had, a policy in which the alcohol must flow freely. On the 2011 budget, they cut the fees by 690 million. kr. On the other hand, it is that control is not the way it should be. The Russian Federation's cooperation body Actis presented a report last month. It shows that overdrafts were reported in Oslo 140 times, and that there were 56 cases where guests were drunk, but still received alcohol. The police said the following at a conference NHO the other day: The stated principle that a gift grant should be easy to get and easy to lose has no impact, according to the police's experience. My question is, do we expect this in the rest of the country if the Advance Party wins power and becomes a party of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e338	The answer is yes. The Progress Party bases its policy on taking responsibility as well as the punishment for the actions to be carried out. So where we're represented in the local government around the whole country, there's one lead that's at stake, and it's that it's going to be easy to get a gift grant, but it's certainly going to be easy to lose it. The party of progress has never opposed this policy. I'm recording that the representative indicates that there is a lack of scant control. Yes, I have registered that as well. I have recorded that the debate on the control of the donation and the control of the patios concerns both sides. But the undersigned and the Advancement Party have no contradiction against giving or controlling the giver.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e345	The party of progress has been busy changing the rules for parole to at least four fifths of the children's sentences, instead of the two thirds of the day. A judgment field may be imposed on the parole and parole conditions, and during this period one may work on the problems in which the judgment is based, while at the same time they shall try to get life outside the walls to work. In the event of a breach of these terms, or in the event of a new offence, there is a time to re-introduce sentences to the rest of the sentence. My point is that the possibility of parole after two thirds gives criminal services important tools. Doesn't Per Sandberg see the importance of this, or does this add up to the line of proposals from the Progress Party, which, instead of facilitating the rehabilitation of people into a lawful life, lead to the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e352	Now it is probably two thirds today, and the Progress Party has said three fourths. But at the same time, I think it is important to look at the debate on the care and rehabilitation that is going to take place at the institution. And without me trying to ridicule in any way: with our policies, criminal services will have better time at the institution to create rehabilitation and build up the one that's going to get back into society -- that's at least my starting point. Otherwise it is that it must be seen in the context that the Progress Party also wants longer penalties, and that one must zone larger parts of it. So I feel that the Progress Party is almost alone in the political debate about holding the debate for those who are victims, and that the Progress Party is also alone in holding a debate for the sake of society. That part of crime and punishment is almost forgotten. We saw that, not least when the committee had a hearing – of 25 bodies, 23 spoke the criminal case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e359	The government has a strict but fair immigration and asylum policy. This policy means that those entitled to protection remain in Norway, while those who are not granted their asylum applications are to return quickly to their country of origin, either voluntarily or by coercion. The large increase in the number of returnees to their country of origin shows that government policy is working. My question to the representative Sandberg is: Tror Sandberg that the budget cut of the Progress Party to the UDI of 415 million. Do you want to speed up the processing of asylum applications and speed up the return of rejected asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e367	Yeah, I think so. For the government does not lead the government's policy, the government conducts the Party's policy in this field. Over the last two or three years, the government has adopted a number of the proposals and policies of the Progress Party in this field, and it may therefore appear that the government is in the process of success. We don't see it at all today. It is a bit interesting that the debate is now about those who are employed by asylum seekers. For now asylum can be closed, and the government will save 2-3 billion. In a year's time, because the Party of Advancement has pursued its policy. That is also the whole of the policy of the Progress Party: we are cutting UDI and UNE to succeed in our general policy, just as the government is doing today. That's why it's kind of nice to have the kind of lines that simply show that the Progress Party has said over four to five years – and has been criticized for all – now works. But it works under a work party rule, and I think that's very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e372	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e375	It is important for me to emphasise in the introduction that this is not how it can work in some debates, that the development of crime in Norway explodes. For example, in 2002 there were 430,000 reviews of criminal offences in Norway. In 2009, the number was less than 400000 – approximately. 398 000. So despite the rise in population, the number of criminal relationships has fallen somewhat. It is also important to note that one of the most serious crimes — the number of murders — in 2009 was 27. This is a low number relative to what it was many years earlier. In 2007, for example: 47. The police then clear up all the murder cases. There was one murder case in 2009 that was not resolved, one in the year before, and for many years before it was all cases of murder solved. Norway is also well located in the case of low relapses in criminal services. A survey comparing us to other Nordic countries showed that 20 pst. Of those who had been in prison, relapsed within two years, while the figure was well above 30 pst. in several other Nordic countries. Similarly, our courts have a low period of trial in relation to courts in other European countries. There is at all reason to stress in the beginning – I'm sure the whole Stortinget with me – that the employees of the police, criminal services, courts, etc. in the judiciary in Norway, doing a good job and achieving many good results. But I also agree with the chairman of the committee that it is important to look at the challenges ahead. The Committee has been particularly concerned in recent months with organised crime. A significant resource has been built up in recent years: today, Kripos employs 450 people – which is 90 more than in 2006 – who have approximately 160 employees and get 10 new annual works next year, we have an orgasm department at the Oslo Police Department with approx. 260 employees, and last year the UP got 10 new jobs to participate in the fight against organised crime. So we have considerable resources to deploy, and we're close to established criminal gang structures in Norway. We have e.g. see it in connection with the last shooting on Earth: the police quickly managed to find suspects, and managed to aim suspects. We've seen something similar in the recent Plaza shooting, we've seen it in the context of what was called the entry line, etc., that you're close to the famous crowd environments of the type MC, A and B gangs, Young Guns, etc. in Oslo – and Norway. But we also have major challenges in organised crime. We've seen that some of the established environments plus others, more unknown, environments are moving towards more and more economic crime. We saw fraud related to what was recently called the Nordea case, with a huge profit – up to 90 million. kr in possible dividends. We've seen the shimmering things, copying digital bank cards. We have seen major money laundering issues, insider dealing, price manipulation, corruption issues, etc., which are difficult to investigate. The increase in resources related to Ecocrim is therefore important for the overall credibility of the justice policy system in Norway. We need to be aware that in the matters that Økokrim is working on, you meet strong counterparties, things take a long time, and it is that you can handle the symbolic issues – such as the Siemens case, the waterworks case, the DNB NOR case, etc. – which is crucial, not necessarily the number of cases relating to the Ecocrim component. We have seen major challenges in relation to non-resident mobile profit criminals, which the police have taken up in a strong way in the inter-district cooperation project. For example, the number of villa break-ins in the Oslo area fell by 46 pst in the first half of the year. as a result of that effort. A major concern about organised crime is about trafficking in human beings. The government has a new action plan in place. We've had the STOP project in Oslo, the Exit Project in Bergen/Hordaland, but we've seen that we're getting a few reviews, we're getting briefings on things, and we know it's more about things than prostitution. The police often have to resort to drug convictions, to hallucinations, etc. in order to get some convicted, but there is a need to step up efforts, to improve tools in relation to the fight against trafficking in human beings, which can be much larger than we know. That is why I am pleased that the government has notified this orgrim message, which we have discussed at Stortinget in the past. For the government parties, it is important to launch a reinforced coordination effort at the central level, to develop methods in view of the police's ability to ensure the security of informants with regard to access to matters, and to establish traffic data in Norway in the future, as it will be lost when commercial reasons do not allow the storage of mobile telephony or IP addresses, etc. as long as you've done. This was demonstrated, inter alia, by: Cripos that in 60 pst. traffic data were critical to the outcome of the investigation of 1 400–1,500 cases in 2008. We also look forward to a greater focus in the future on the withdrawal of profits from organised crime. With regard to other tasks that the police are now facing — domestic violence and violence in close relationships — that the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have placed great emphasis on, there is reason to realize that we can still have very large numbers of darkness. I am pleased with the study on the prevalence of sexualized violence, family violence and violence in close relationships that the department announces it will do in 2011. It's important to get a better idea of the scope. We've seen scary numbers, like 87 women are killed in close relationships from 1997 to 2009. We have seen that the number of reports of violence in close relationships, as the focus increases, grew in 2009, i.e. that we had 2,100 reviews. There are important methods that have been developed – family violence coordinators in the police districts and children’s homes, as the committee was and visited last week in Kristiansand. Seven children's houses have started in the period. The functioning of children’s homes is now being evaluated, as announced in the budget paper, from the autumn of 2010. The action tested in Asker and Bærum police districts on electronic control in case of a restraining order, i.e. a reverse alarm of violence, is also a promising and good idea, which should be tested further when the test in Asker and Bærum is now evaluated. A third area I would like to mention, where there are major challenges that we need to address in the years to come, concerns prevention. When we talk about these heavy challenges in relation to organised crime, in relation to violence, etc., it can quickly happen that the resources for prevention work can be lowered. That is why I am pleased with the project we saw that the Police Directorate has run in four police districts, called Security and Trust, where the working methods for prevention will be developed, among others. with a view to a better understanding of new minorities. It is important that measurement criteria for prevention can also be established here. We have measurement criteria on many things that are easy to actually measure, but in order not to turn away from prevention, it is also important to establish measurement criteria for it, as has been announced in the work on the performance reform. With regard to the police's resources to carry out the tasks I've been dealing with now, and many other tasks, the Committee has had a great deal of focus both in the budgetary position and in the year that has passed. That's 2 billion. kr to the police now in 2010 and until it is added up in 2011. We finally got up to a level of 720 students in the admission to the Police College from the fall of 2010. It is important that it continues in the years to come, so that we can make a change in the pace of stepping up police resources towards 2020. So then the common goal is 2,700 more in the police department. We know that there are concerns about whether those who are trained from the Police College get a job. At present, the situation is that 70 of those who left school have not yet received a job this autumn, but there is a great deal of attention about it, a great deal of pressure on it – 80 million have been added. kr to have a full-year impact until next year to ensure the full-year impact of the police high school students admitted this year. Similarly, funds have been put in place for the next year in order to be able to involve the police trained in 2011. [[The President clubs.]] So we're... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e409	The number is over, you can conclude with that. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e414	The representative Jan Bøhler is the leading justice policy of the Red-Green parties in Stortinget. It involves responsibility. This means that he has to take responsibility for the policy. He can't run from it. Nevertheless, we often see that the representative, Mr Bøhler, is trying to profile himself on the Justice Policy of the Advance Party and thus withdrawing from his own judicial policy. In his speech, the representative, Bøhler, said that there are 70 newly trained policemen standing without a job. That means that increasing the number of places at the Police College does not have the desired effect of the Storting. I wonder what kind of message the representative of Bohemia has for the former police student who is now in line with Nav and is about to start his professional life as an unemployed person, when he thought he was going to a safe profession in the police – with life and commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e423	It is important to note that there are 310 people who have received a job in the fall of those who left the Police College this summer, so that there is a large proportion who are employed. A good part of the 70 who have not yet received a job are people who took the shooting test late. They have passed the shooting test after each time over the fall, and it is now working hard to get them employed by the police. Last year we had the same ominous discussion from the opposition about those who went out of the Police College, would get a job or not. In the winter, there were 95 pst. they've got a job. We're pretty sure there's going to be a similar development this year. It is being worked hard on by the Directorate of Police and on the part of the Department. I agree with the intention of the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that here it is essential that those who are trained from the Police College get a job so that we can achieve our target of 2,700 more police officers by 2020. So there's no disagreement that these have to work, but we have to respect that they have to pass the exam, pass the shooting test, and we have to work hard to get them in. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e435	The President asks that speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e438	On page 11 of the budget proposal itself, it is written that ‘durable system improvements’ have been achieved in the field of justice. It has to be understood that one is more efficient and lurking than before. Can the representative of Bohemia provide five concrete examples of such permanent system improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e443	I don't know if I can give five examples in such a short time. But a major, lasting improvement in the last period was to bring down the queues in the criminal justice system, from up to 3,000 to – it varies – between 300 and 400 waiting in the prison system now. This is a great, lasting improvement. We've built out capacity, so that improvement will be permanent. There are new capacity development measures this year. We have carried out a doubling of the last year's Oktay Dahl party put in government regarding admission to the Police College. Then it was 360 that was taken up, now it's 720. It's a system change that will give us the basis for achieving the goals that I think Oktay Dahl agrees with us in terms of Police College. System changes have been made in the fight against violence in close relationships. The establishment of seven children's homes is a system change. The same is true of the establishment of a family violence coordinator, etc. I got those points right now -- I see you've got up, President -- but I think there's reason to refer to these and more points to satisfy Oktay Dahl. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e454	Once the president gets up, it's time to round the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e457	I noticed that the representative of Bohemia began talking about the number of cases that have fallen, from 430,000 in 2002 to 380 000 now. I agree with the representative, Bøhler, that it's positive, but I've been thinking about a challenge. I understand that there are many people who do not have the same trust in the police, because when they go to the police to report, they often feel that the matter is just being put away. It worries me. The representative of Bohemia knows well the situation in Oslo, with organized crime, etc. We see thieveriraid and gangs that rule large parts of the country. One knows that there are many things about a known perpetrator that are just being put away. One sees a drugstore, especially in Oslo, where it's quite openly allowed to happen. This does something about people's sense of justice, security and trust. Does the representative Bøhler see the same thing, and, if so, does he want to do something more to create greater security and trust in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e467	I think that's a good question. It is first important to stress that eight out of ten say they have confidence in the police in Norway, but at the point the representative mentions, which relates to the winning crimes, burglaries and thefts, only four out of ten say they have great confidence in the police. In what is called ‘everyday crime’ in a bad word, I think a lot of people feel that it can make a better effort. The project that the Police Directorate has now carried out in four districts, Security and Trust is about it: how to be more precise in following up such issues? The performance reform, which we are now going to discuss in Stortinget in the coming year, and will work towards 2013, is about how to achieve greater efficiency in those issues. So I agree with the representative. I warned in my speech that we could risk under-prioritising the kind of task when there is so much complicated crime that requires great resources, as I mentioned in connection with organized crime that the police have to deal with. So I agree with the concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e476	When the helicopter service was established and placed under the Oslo Police Department, an overall committee said the following: «The Committee has noted that all hearing bodies stress that the costs of setting up and operating a police helicopter service must not be charged to the ordinary operating budgets without corresponding increases in transfers.» Does the representative Bøhler believe that the intention of the whole committee is respected, based on the economic situation of the Oslo police and the helicopter service?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e486	Last year, the Oslo police had a very large increase in the budget - I think they were at 180 million. kr i plus last year. Part of what they were going to do in that budget was buy police helicopters. They did it. This means that in 2011, they will have much less expenditure on police helicopters than they have now had in 2010, because they will then not pay the cost if you do not own it yourself. I believe, in the context of the comment to which Mr Johansen's representative refers, that there had to be large increases in the budgetary framework if changes were to be made to police helicopters, that it was satisfied in the 2010 budget framework. It was big enough for them to take over. It is an investment that they will benefit greatly in the years to come, because it will reduce the cost of police helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e493	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e496	Norway is a good country to live in for most. Unfortunately, it is also too good a country to live in for a few criminals. Many feel strongly insecure because of an increasingly organised and even more brutal form of crime, even though the few experience it — fortunately. Security is a lot about emotions, and they're not always based on the actual presence or the risk of being exposed to crime. The right is concerned that we do not condone either the real crime scene or the subjective sense of security. For it determines to what extent many of us feel that we can unfold as we please, without risking violence, threats or abuse. For a long time, the right has called for much better efforts to coordinate efforts against organised crime. We have called for a broader approach. We have pointed out that the police – even though the police are doing a great job – cannot stand alone to meet this. We cannot have the status quo as a strategy. We see that in many parts of the criminal environment, there is – at least we see indications of it – shadow societies on the side of democracy, which live by their own rules, which are set over democratic rules of play. We hear from the police that organized crime is growing into the legitimate business life of Norway. Therefore, this year's right-wing initiative promoted its own proposals to step up efforts to combat organised crime. The right has proposed its own wide-ranging police study to see things much more in a context. The right has developed its own crimping plan. The right has proposed the establishment of a dedicated CEOP-centre on a pattern from England to strengthen and coordinate the work against child abuse via the Internet, which may also be organised. We have proposed a wide range of measures to combat and prevent juvenile delinquency. We have proposed a strong strengthening of child protection, both on the legislative, quality and organisational sides. We have proposed a great deal of measures to reduce the queues of drugs and psychiatry. The right is simply more concerned with individuals, that they should receive respect and not least help when they need it, rather than be a system reactionary. That is why we have also more than doubled the allocation to voluntary private organisations, who are working on the repatriation of prisoners in Norwegian prisons, and are following up in our alternative budget this year as well. As the Right sees it, the Red-Green regime is operating on a regular footing and offers good niches for voluntary Norway, based on ideology, while the queues for help are increasing at the same time. That's the opposite of better prevention. Not least, the Right proposes approx. 300 million. SEK more to the police for next year’s budget – 200 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. We believe that it must be done now, so that we do not lose all the newly trained policemen, while at the same time policemen may stop or retire prematurely. We want 2 000 more police officers by 2015, precisely because it is now possible for us to achieve targets of increased manpower in relation to population, population growth and crime. In 2003, the admissions began to increase at the Police College, which was too low, because the government's own party bombed on the estimates of what would come out of the Police Reform. Those experiences we need to draw with us when we may now need to reorganise the police districts. In the comments of the government parties, it appears that the budgets have not been read between 2003 and 2005, when the civil parties started to escalate. Nor does it seem that the same parties have read that they took a break themselves after coming to the government offices in 2005, and only from 2007 did the escalation that had started. So I think everyone should take over that you have certain parts of the story behind you. Fortunately, the recording today is twice as high. The question now is how to ensure that they get a job in the police and not outside, and that they stay in the police as far as possible. In that perspective, the Right is not satisfied with the fact that the Biggest parties have to conduct a sort of questioning competition without the fascination to know what to go to ICT, which will ensure that police districts are provided with better equipment, but that this has to be financed by not employing newly educated or actually cutting staff compared to population. The Council of State has recognised at the Stockholm Chair that the police coverage is 1.6 per 1 000 inhabitants, as in 2005. The TV 2 case this weekend about the woman who was attacked by her doctor and who now feels that lack of resources does not allow the matter to be resolved after an undue long time, shows some of the priority challenges that the police are going to face more. The people aren't going to understand that, when you say from the government that this is where you've been raising the times. It is therefore disappointing to see that the Council of State delivers a quarter of a page non-answer to the Committee in relation to the proposal that the Right has advanced on a separate issue of ICT for treatment in the Grand Duchy, so that it does not remain a half-way secret for what, after all, is the granting authority. All Right's proposals would have created a better, warmer and safer society. Unfortunately, all over the years have almost routinely been downgraded. I'm sure they'll be here today, too. But I hope from experience that the Council of State commits a little bit of its own political profit crime and steals a little policy from others and again promotes good proposals, based on others' proposals, for example. As you do now when you open up to buy prison places abroad, as the Right has suggested for several years, but against which the government has until recently had major contradictions in principle. Anyway: Welcome after and watch your work! The right also expects immediate action to be taken to establish its own departments or prisons for foreign criminals, and not least to pursue violence against public officials in the manner it deserves, including in criminal matters. It's positive that the government is doing what the Right suggested last year, that is to say, increasing the recording on the KRUS. However, we see that the staff of the criminal justice system still feel that they are forgotten. When government councils were opposition politicians, balance in the criminal chain was one of the glamorous numbers. It seemed to be a little forgotten when, before the elections last year, a police crisis had to be lifted, and there was a backlog. We now see that the housing queues are on their way up again. The right questions the ability of the justice sector to plan comprehensively and not just on a piece-by-piece basis. I then show that the Right has for a longer time put forward proposals for much better coordination and planning across the justice sector, and to see things in a much wider context than today. There is a great need to look at the ability to plan, implement procurement, implement framework agreements across the different parts of the justice sector. Also in our field you should use people who know something, for what they can, not just boast of, for example. how good female entrepreneurs are, but at the same time reject the use of the good female founder because she happens to have private ones with her. I am of course talking again about GENA in Stavanger. It's not okay that more police districts report too late analysis time, and that the quality is certainly not on the level of countries we should compare with. The right is more concerned with the victims of the rape than with public/private principles. When the council suddenly in the newspaper became very concerned about the situation at the RMI, it was almost impossible to believe that it was possible, after the same government for five years has not crossed two sticks to clean up. The recent response of the State Council of Aasland to the question-terrorism gives cause for concern over the implementation of the DNA reform, all the time it only contained known notes of trust in the University of Oslo, etc. It is precisely the fact that individuals at the RMI have been allowed to dictate themselves and the country's parliament, which has created the problems. That problem must be tackled at its root, and it only happens that the environment is exposed to competition for quality and legal certainty and is not allowed to monopolise expertise, and one should begin to see that there are some self-interests out there and go beyond what is indirectly based on GENA. In this context: Proposal No. 23, from the Advancement Party, the Right has intended to support. This was not so formulated when we decided on the matter, but it has been given a form that now corresponds to the two broad-based representative proposals that have been advanced by the Right in the past, in 2006 and last year. In addition, we want to support proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox I'm dealing with the Right's proposal, no. 25-digit number And then I want to draw attention to an incursion in the setting. From the last seven lines on page 21 to the whole page 22, the right one is on the comments. The reason why I say that is, is that those comments are originally what I myself wrote, and as a case writer you will of course be present in your own comments. There's been an incurrency, so the Right and Advance Party are united from the last seven lines on page 21 to even the whole page 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e534	Then the necessary clarifications and corrections have been made, and the representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e539	Electronic reconciliation is a good thing for a lot of people, people who have committed petty crime, and not initially are major criminals. Then they don't sit with hard-boiled criminals or other people who are to be prepared to come back to society. The progress party wants to wind up the whole system, they've always been against it, and it's an honest thing. It seems that there can be a government where the Progress Party and the Right sit together, and as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, my question is to the Right: what policy should be in this area, is the Right Policy, where electronic compensation is still part of the Criminal Service, or the Policy of the Advance Party, which wants to abolish it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e546	I think it's a big question to get from a representative from a party who wants six hours' day, who wants Norway out of the EEA and Norway out of NATO, a policy that would halve the GDP in Norway. Then I think you have the gift of fear to ask that kind of question, but I'm going to try to answer it anyway. The right has a clear belief that electronic compensation should be reserved for young offenders. The right is concerned with broad civil cooperation, where all the bourgeois parties have something to say. The right has intended to establish a completely necessary new bourgeois government, and I am very concerned that the Right Party and the Advance Party agree on an extremely high level of justice policy, for example. to strengthen the police force, for example: not to have a sharp asylum policy, but to have a strict and fair asylum policy, to make more demands, to support volunteers, to ensure that more people are brought back to Norwegian society. I'm proud that you actually agree on the civil side. Then I actually think the representative from SV should go a little by himself and look at how much this government, which has a majority, is doing to deliver beyond unnecessary monitoring proposals via e.g. Navel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e553	The President will point out that ‘the gift of grace’ is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e556	The representative, Octay Dahl, has on several occasions underlined the importance of the balance in the criminal justice chain, and has also repeatedly criticised the government in that area. Then it's interesting that the Right in its alternative state budget does the same thing that the representative Octay Dahl has repeatedly criticized the government for, namely increase to the police without following up with an increase in criminal custody and courts. I would like to ask the representative Octay Dahl: is the whole of the criminal chain only important when the Right can criticise the government, or is it that it was not possible to give priority to the whole once again when you were going to give massive tax relief to those who have the most from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e563	The right is very happy that the government is following up the Right proposal from last year to increase the admission to the KRUS. What's sad is that the government parties don't want to research the results of what's happening in criminal matters, but have voted for proposals repeatedly. The same applies with a view to getting more focus on leadership skills and evaluating some of the measures taken. For today's problem is that a lot of money is spent in criminal care that you don't know what you're getting back for. That's the main problem. I think it is a bit polite when the colleague of the representative talks about system improvements. The only system improvement you can point to is a slight increase in budgets. The right is actually concerned that you spend your money in a trickier way, that you evaluate and don't let things go in secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e569	The right has turned on the big room when it comes to promising to bet on the police. This big room wasn't right when the Right went to the front of the Bondevik II government. Anyway, the right most impressive out that Right and André Oktay Dahl promise to increase the crew with 2,000 police officers by 2015, all the time the government parties have talked about two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants by 2020. But I'm wondering how Right has intended to do this when they don't at the same time make suggestions to increase the recording at the Police College. Because even if all graduates get a job, it will not be enough with police officers to fill all of these posts in parallel with the resignation of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e574	I recommend the representative to read his own papers a little more carefully. In fact, the right is based on the government's own estimates, but it has completely different assumptions about actually keeping people on the job. That's why we've been proposing our own senior measures over the years – making sure that people are more at work – and not least that you're hiring, with the high levels of admissions that we're all on. Otherwise, I just want to challenge back: the last overview of the Central Bureau of Statistics states that the police coverage is at 1.6 – the same as it was in 2005. Then I think it's time to take over the fact that you're in arrears and actually should support the proposals of the Right and Advance Party on additions, so that we can boost the number of police coverage that we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e583	I think it is presumptuous that a serious party like the Right should give the Stortinget a better answer to how to do 2,000 more than what is assumed in the crew report, by 2015. Today we are dealing with a budget where the Right agrees with the size of the recording in 2011– 720 more at the Police College. It takes three years to train there, so that in 2014, we have the same starting point – the number that goes from high school in the police department is equal to the number that can be taken into the police. So the representative Oktay Dahl and the right in the budget position said that in 2015 they would still have 2,000 more police officers than the government parties. It is then necessary to be able to predict what to do about something explosive with the 2012 recording in order to get 2,000 more in 2015. In this period you only have the recording in 2012 to do something about how many you have in 2015. It doesn't just help to show that you want to work better with retiring the police, etc. There's no credibility in that it's going to give 2,000 more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e590	I think it would have been opportune if the government parties took on self-criticism that the 2010 police coverage is actually exactly the same as it was in 2005, and does not deny that we need to compensate for ICT investment by granting equivalents, so that it is not withdrawn from these budgets. We are based on the government's own estimates, but we have our own senior measures, we keep more people in work and we provide new jobs. In fact, I think you should start to answer why you haven't yet managed to increase the police coverage in relation to the population. The representative of Bohemia represents the majority and has done so for five years. Maybe it's time for someone else to let go, so you can start implementing what the whole Storting has agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e597	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e600	Let me first make a correction. I promoted a claim in the reply card change where I said that the Progress Party wants to abolish the entire electronic compensation. That is not true, although the Progress Party has always been very critical and is withdrawing 6 million. kr that the government wishes to grant for electronic compensation next year. The budget document is about money – about dollars and cents. But the budget document is not just a crown-and-ear document. It's a governance paper, where we fuck principles, attitudes and values we want to govern society. It's a value document for us. For the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government, it is essential to put out and hold on to a course that says that all people have the right to a safe life, free from violence, abuse and carelessness, that violence and crime should be prevented first and foremost, that those who are subjected to violence and abuse should be helped to get back on their feet, that legal certainty and human dignity also apply to those who have violated the law, and that those who are behind the prison walls should be helped to live a crime-free life after the atonement. In an SV society, provision shall be made for people from childhood to have the opportunity to realize themselves, take education and create a future for themselves and their own. The fact that, from the day one in government, full child care coverage was put at an affordable price, free half-day kindergarten space in the districts with high concentration of children with a minority background, the fight against private schools, which share, the fight for the protection of the public school, which collects, free books in secondary school and free homework in the small school, high on the agenda, is not random. This gives people the opportunity to succeed, and it prevents crime. We are pleased and proud to note that we have achieved all these goals, which are very important for people to get a good start to life. I note that the opposition has a different course in many of these important road choices. Right, e.g. wish to increase the kindergarten price by SEK 200 per month. That means NOK 2 400 in increased expenses for young children's parents. If you have two children in the kindergarten, you have to spend $4,800 more per year. Already here you've lost the 1000-note right will give in tax dollars. The progress party will continue to deny children the right to free homework at school. For them, it is impossible to see that many children do not have the opportunity to get help doing homework at home. The party of progress will create losers already in primary school. We have to remember that a person who is in prison would like to be a child who came out crooked at a young age. SV is pleased that a unanimous committee agrees with the government's objective that children and young people should not be in prison. The Committee notes that the use of alternative forms of compensation for children, such as community punishment, housing in an institution – so-called §12 zoning – and increased use of conflict advice, is particularly important. I am very pleased that the Committee believes that 'the use of care for children and young people is unacceptable'. For SV, a secure childhood is a value in itself. Children shall be protected from violence, care failure and abuse, nor shall they bear witness to violence. In its time, SV called for the establishment of children’s homes in Norway. SV is pleased that there are seven children’s homes in Norway today that offer their children help under one roof. However, questions have been raised about the financing model of children’s homes. Both this and how to ensure good quality, we will follow up. As long as there are crimes that are not resolved, it can be claimed that the police do not have enough resources. However, the police have seen a significant increase in their resources in recent years. We've increased the police budget by about $2.85. kr for the period 2006-2010. We made the police budget promise this year by 1.3 billion. kr. We've trained police students so it's monks. We've strengthened criminal custody, and we've almost closed the settlement queues. But I recognize that the resource situation is tight in the police action. I've had a lot of conversations with a lot of police around the country. I record that interpreting expenditure has increased considerably. I see that as Stortinget wanted to strengthen legal certainty for both offended and accused people, police expenditure has increased proportionally. SV wants a close dialogue with the police and will closely monitor the budgetary situation. That is why we in the government have launched a broad-based performance reform. At the same time, however, we need to streamline the criminal justice chain, including the police. We're going to a celebration. It's the family celebration. Fun and food are supposed to be in the center. Christmas holidays are to be enjoyed. However, not everyone is looking forward to this holiday. Many complain, for many reasons. The loneliness is going to hit a lot of people. Many people want it tough Christmas night. The psychological burden of walking through the holiday surrounded by solitude — and only solitude — will require its own. It is in these days that we as society must take responsibility. We have to stand up for fellow humans, show warmth and give an hour or two to those who don't have anyone around them. Here must praise all those who make up for lonely contact-seeking people during the Christmas holidays. But there are many people who will have it tough during the Christmas holidays. Many children and others also live in families where drug abuse is high and will increase during their holidays. Many children will have to take responsibility for their drunken parents, many will live in fear of violence, and many will be subjected to violence. Here again it is important to show care and responsibility. But Stortinget has a special responsibility that goes beyond showing care. It is a question of having a strict and responsible alcohol policy. We know that increased access to alcohol and low prices mean that more people drink more. I am amazed that the Progress Party, which speaks out loud about the victims of violence, has a policy that could create more victims of violence. Cheaper alcohol could increase the suffering of children and women in families where alcohol is a problem and where parents in a state of intoxication fail in their care. Parents will become a burden to their children. For me, it's incomprehensible that the Progress Party will cut with a total of 10 pst. in the taxes on alcohol. Alcohol will be 3⁄4 billion. And what about the responsibilities of the Right Party? Well, the right has the same solution except that they cut the alcohol charges by 5 pst. In my city, Oslo, the Right Party and the Advance Party are in power. Here they have always received criticism from the police for their search policy. The other day, the NHO held a conference on industrial policy in Oslo, and the police came up with the following ointment: the principle that a serving/disciplinary permit should be ‘easy to get and easy to lose’ does not have an impact on police experience. Better it can't be said. The Right Party and the Advance Party lack an alcohol policy. Then it's no wonder they have to increase the police's budget. But the policy is still not under control. SV and the government are working for a warmer society where each of us is going to realize itself. We work for a society where community and solidarity are carriers. We don't give billions of taxes. We want to expand the welfare community. It benefits us all – especially those of us who have it tough, and who have less than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e637	Electronic atonement can be granted to both violent and murderous men and especially towards the end of the settlement. The representative Chaudhry said in a reply earlier that this should be for petty criminals and young criminals. If that is the case, the SV and the Progress Party agree on this with electronic adjournment. So my question to the representative, Chaudhry, is this: will SV impose such restrictions on electronic compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e642	The representative of Ørsal Johansen is absolutely right. This atonement is also used against those who have committed serious crime and who have served for a long time. But the representative also knows that electronic compensation is used completely at the end and no longer than in the last four months, because then this man or woman is on the way out to society anyway. And leaving him at home and getting a soft transition to society without being completely free should be something that we all should appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e647	I don't know if the representative Chaudhry fully understood the question. I also mentioned that killers and violent criminals can get electronic compensation at the end of their time of atonement – we agree that they have the opportunity to get it. But the question was therefore whether SV and Chaudhry would restrict the electronic compensation so that it would only apply to petty criminals and young offenders, as the representative Chaudhry said in a reply earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e652	I understand that it is those who have not committed serious crime or those who are at the end of their atoning period, who are offered to zone like this. It's a long line of applicants. I do not understand why the representative Ørsal Johansen asks the question at all. It is clearly stated both in SV's program and in other documents that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e658	In an earlier debate on DNA analysis, the representative of Chaudhry was described as having bought and paid by GENA in Stavanger, which has 90 pst. Free capacity and may assist the Forensic Institute, RMI, with DNA analyses. Chaudhry's own party colleague, former vice president of the Justice Committee, Olav Gunnar Ballo, went off very quickly as RMI director because he saw how it stood up there. He has subsequently given the Right a lot right in the criticism that we've been making for almost five years, and he now also seems much more positive to GENA. Does the representative still believe that the undersigned has been purchased and paid by GENA, and why does he disagree with his party colleague that the situation at RMI is so unsustainable that it is appropriate to consider using other than RMI?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e667	The undersigned has never claimed, at least not meant, that the representative Oktay Dahl was purchased and paid by someone. As to how the Executive Director has expressed himself and what the Right Policy is, there must be a case between them. SV is committed to government policy, which says we need the Forensic Institute, and that's what we want to use for DNA analysis. That's the safest thing, and that's the right thing to do, and we're behind the government's policy in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e674	First I must commend the representative Chaudhry for a good post. He was in on many important points that I agree with him in. In particular, I am pleased that he mentions alcohol and alcohol-related problems, and what consequences it has for society. One knows that 60-80 pst. of all the cases of violence occur under the influence of some form of drug addiction, and one knows it is a huge challenge for society. I see the posts of the representative Chaudhry so positively that I should not be so negative to him. The representative mentions Oslo as an example, and there is the Progress Party and the Right who are in charge, but it is with SV that one implements the make-up policy – it is SV that is the plug in the system, if one can use that word. That's why I was going to challenge Chaudhry if it's SV that's the plug in the government as well. As it may look from outside, it may seem that they notify the limitations of the punctuation time will not be any of them anyway, as is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e681	In the case of alcohol policy, the distance between SV and the Christian People’s Party – neither in Oslo nor in the country – is no greater than between other parties. We stand together. We believe, both the SV and the Christian People's Party, that alcohol is the root of a lot of evil, a lot of suffering and a lot of stress both for society and for individuals. Then it's the way that the representative, Ropstad, is fully aware that in Oslo it's not SV, nor Christian People's Party that rules. Therefore it is neither the Christian People's Party nor the SV who are to take responsibility for the suffering that is being inflicted on the people of Oslo or for the costs that the Oslo police have to pay for the gift policy that is being pursued in Oslo. The right person is the Right Party and the Advance Party, which has the City Council for both nutrition and giving.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e688	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e691	The field of justice is exciting in many ways, and, if I may say so, also terrifying in some ways. By this I mean that we, as a big-time representative, have a great and weighty responsibility for what kind of meeting the individual gets with the police, the judiciary and the criminal services. These encounters between man and system will, on both good and bad, be part of the basis for how they keep to the law and straight forward in life, and therefore also for how our society evolves. Friedrich Nietzsche said: Mistru everyone who has a strong need to punish. Although it is most understandable that the desire for a home appears in people who have experienced that they or some of the closest have been injured, punishment should preferably never be punished only for the guilt of the home. This might be worth reminding the Progress Party of when they cry out the highest in more severe punishments and claim that today's proponent regime is sewing cushions under the arms of lawbreakers. The situation of victims and relatives has been much more marked in recent years. This is important because the consequences of being picked, assaulted, rand or other troubling events, put traces in the human mind, and can create anxiety and make the quality of life worse. Thus, it is right to direct action against victims and relatives. At the same time, we must never lose sight of how important it will still be to ensure that crime is prevented and to rehabilitate lawbreakers just to avoid new people entering the victim role. The party wants a criminal care centre that focuses on the content of soning, training and education and the preparation for life after imprisonment from the very beginning. If long sentences had been horrendous, countries like the United States and China would have less relapse and less crime than, for example, would have. Norway. That's far from the case. We have to do more of what actually works. We must continue to strengthen the police so that the risk of being discovered becomes greater. We need to make the justice system more effective, so that offenders are judged and punished more quickly. This will make the consequences of the offence clearer for the offender, it will improve the situation for the victims and strengthen the general sense of justice. However, it is important to point out that we should distinguish clearly between different types of offences. That's why we've intensified the reaction of killing, election, and assault. That's right. Speaking and action speaks its clear language. Since 2005, the red-green government has been working to strengthen both the victim and its relatives and to improve the ability of the police, the judiciary and the criminal services to prevent better, clarify more, judge more quickly and rehabilitate better. The 2011 budget provides a framework for continuing this effort. The Councils of Conflict do a good job of helping to resolve conflicts outside the courts. Most importantly, this keeps many young people away from a long criminal path in the worst case. In addition, it is socio-economically profitable all the time when mediation and the positive way conflicts are resolved appear to prevent new lawbreakers. It is also directly involved in mitigating the costs of the judicial system. For the injured party, a dispute settlement process may also help to improve the situation afterwards than if the process had been conducted in a court of law. This is all the reason why the majority in the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the SV and the Central Party, are adding 2.5 million to the conflict council. kr in addition to the sum submitted by the government. We're sure that this money will be useful. I would also like to say that the government wants to make the legal aid available to many more people and to set up a new first-line service to lower the threshold to seek legal assistance. As it is today, many people insist on going to law even if they would have had good help with it. Then to the police. I'm proud of the government's efforts on the police case. With an increase of 4 billion. kr, i.e. almost 50 pst., since 2005, we have had an important shift after the Bondevik II administration's starvation. High-recording at the Police Sculpture is part of the targeted effort to strengthen the police for the future. Then you have to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time. Firstly, we have done a big and important lifting in the last few years that are being carried on in 2011. Point 2: The floor will also need fresh funds in the years to come. Police coverage per 1 000 inhabitants needs to be increased. The third point that one must have in mind at the same time as the other two is that the police must use the resources available at any time to get the most police force possible for each penny. There would have been an operational analysis of the situation and, hopefully, the forthcoming reform of results should help to ensure that we have a great deal of security for the funds that are being provided to the police. The Soria Moria II Government Declaration states that we are to maintain a decentralised police structure, strengthen the officers' offices, have more police posts and less administration with a new organisation in the police districts to get a more visible and accessible police force. An ever-returning theme is near-police and what we put in this. I mean, on the one hand, we have to be willing to change some structures when it's preliminary, on the other hand, we don't have to blindly believe that centralization is the solution to all the problems. Modern ICT solutions and constructive cooperation between Liaison Officers’ Offices and Districts can deliver good results, while too large distances can give it the opposite. My goal and my hope for the investment to be made in ICT in the police is to provide a basis for thinking about how we can solve the problems and make geographical distance less relevant. Perhaps you can strengthen your local offices by moving out some tasks instead of centralizing them according to old habits. We must never lose sight of the fact that the police are not just in order to catch lawbreakers, but to the maximum extent in order to prevent them. A police officer who cooperates well with other public authorities, such as the police. the protection of children, and to make a good preventive effort, must be present in the community. I want to finish something that I started, and refer to Friedrich, this time not Nietzsche, but von Logau, who said: Penalty should be like salad that contains more oil than vinegar. Despite the fact that both the Right Party and the Progress Party are opposed to domestic reconciliation, and that the Special Progress Party strongly argues against settlement forms where the criminal element is not particularly provocative, there is reason to highlight the results of the large joint Nordic relapse study RETUR. It turns out that Norway has 20 pst. Relapse to crime two years after another settlement. So we're going to get the best out in the North. This is worth remembering when we discuss the content of the soning. More oil than vinegar can be a good rule of mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e729	It is opened for word wrap
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e732	The blade was inside the victims at the beginning of their post, which I thought was very good. And we remember all of the Kristoffer case -- it's still very topical -- one that at least in my place has made me talk more and more about the victims' case. We have proposed that the government establish an aid lawyer scheme for children who have been killed or who have died in suspicious circumstances. Why does the representative Klinge disagree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e739	Basically, I am open to any proposal that can strengthen the legal protection of children, including those who are killed. What is involved in the aid system at present is that it should be a support to relatives who have experienced the near death or mistreatment of their loved ones. So there's a big difference between being a dead person, who obviously needs to get his interests taken care of, and being a relative who still needs support under a trial. What I think one must never lose sight of, is that for the kids who experience being killed by one of their closest, there is not a possible aid lawyer named in retrospect who will decide whether those who have done so will be judged, and for justice to be done in a good way, but precisely the job that the police and the prosecution will do to ensure evidence and bring the case forward, and to get a conviction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e746	The representative Klinge was in the performance reform, an important work going on in the police at the moment. For the right, the near-police model is central. At the same time, we know that changes are constantly taking place in society and in relation to the missions and challenges that the police are going to meet, so that we are not now going to lock any position in relation to our conclusions on that reform. The centre party often has an entrance to discuss societal structures that are as changing as the ten bids. The representative is within the Soria Moria Declaration and also refers to the party's relationship with the performance reform. However, it is clear from a very clear basic point of view that you should have what you have. So my question is, how does the Central Party view the need for structural changes in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e753	For us in the Center Party, it is always decisive when it comes to discussing structural changes, that there is local unity to the greatest extent possible, and that there are not least good local processes that lead to any structural changes. I'm not at the forefront of changes in the structure of the local police districts or the county authorities. The important thing is that one achieves something with it. For my own part, I'm perhaps less concerned about the police districts than what I am for the county officials' offices, all the time you might be able to achieve something by gathering operational centres and creating something larger districts. What is important to me today is that the big debate on the reform of results should be held in the future to ensure that we do the right things. For us in the Center Party, that doesn't mean that we're against all the changes, but we're going to be absolutely sure that the changes we're making are expedient, and not least that it shouldn't be centralization just for centralization's sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e763	I want to continue where the representative from the Right ended. Centralisation and top management are ideological themes that both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have traditionally agreed to fight against, precisely because we believe in a society that is built from below. That's where the good solutions are created. That's where one should start, that's what one should have as a starting point. One has recently seen that it has our conflicts around local hospitals. There have been threats of closure, and in many ways the government has not wanted to intervene. It's been disturbing. One has seen that the government put the tax director here as he wants to and put 130 offices around the country. One sees that more people are in charge of the coercion of municipalities, etc. Now one also looks at the police structure and the officers' offices, which are being removed because one centralizes. And this is done before a better supply is in place. I would like to challenge the representative Klinge on the following: What kind of grip my centre party has to take to reverse a development where one moves the police away from people and gets more and more centralization?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e774	I thank you for the question. It is very important to discuss the local police and the local relief services. I would like to clarify once again that I am not against all the changes, but it is most necessary to take care of a diverse and decentralised police structure. To the extent that it is a relevant comparison to refer to local hospitals, there are proposals for major changes. What I've been busy about when it comes to hospitals is that one should wait at national health level and on what the Storting says in that context, before doing the big grips. I would like to stress that I like to see the police, that the debate on the reform of results must be the basis for the changes to be made, and that, in fact, there are good political processes, both central and local, that underpin what is to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e783	Let me tell the representative Klinge from the Center Party that it was very interesting and – I think – good answer she had on the first line. She expressed that there was no resistance in the centre party to looking at new structure. Then I record that the representative points out that there are few problems with looking at the police district structure. There's the Center Party completely in line with the Advance Party. Then, in the next round, you might look at the lumbar district structure and the lumbar office structure. Can I interpret it to that effect that, when you come into a situation where you have to put a new structure, the Central Party will agree with the Progress Party that you will first go to the superiors, the police Directorate and the police districts, before you look at possible changes in the County districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e790	I have registered that the Progress Party has come up with proposals for down to five police districts. So far, at least it's absolutely certain that the center part won't be on. I'm busy seeing this in context. Instead of taking the first one, then wait a while and then take the second one has to consider a holistic policy in this field. For my part, I am interested in discussing the structure when it comes to the police districts, but I also thought it had to be seen in the context of how one intended to have the structure of the officers' offices in the future. There are exciting processes to go forward. I'm pretty sure that even though the apparent fact is that the Center Party can agree with the Progress Party at some point – and that's good and good if we are – there's also a lot of reason to believe that the Progress Party wants to go much further when it comes to the closure of both the police district and the Länsmannskontoret than the Central Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e799	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e802	Safety in everyday life is a prerequisite for good quality of life. A robust police force plays an important and fundamental role here. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the government is continuing a high level of admission to the School of Police. That's good. On the other hand, the focus on police operating budgets is not in any way on the challenges facing the sector. Paradoxically, today’s budgets are likely to lead many police students to train for unemployment. That's not good. The police themselves have reported that they must cut off 500 posts in the future due to tight budgets. In Oslo, dozens of posts have been cut this year, and Trondheim police have repeatedly had to close the audience reception due to a lack of resources. In addition, we know that the police have an IT platform that is about to collapse and needs to be replaced. This is a billion-class cost, for which there is no money set. The Joint Police Association has calculated that after political special efforts have been financed and the wage and price increases have been fully covered, the operating budget will be reduced. Arne Johannessen, who is not exactly known to walk quietly in the doors, is also this year mute of admiration over the budget. He says, ‘In this way, the madness continues that we need to keep job vacancies in order to finance ICT.’ Yes, the Minister of Justice himself has admitted that it is likely to be cut in other parts of the police to cover upgrades of the IT system. I would have liked the Minister of Justice to clarify where these cuts are to be taken. The Christian People's Party believes that the police budget must be strengthened, not least in order to bring life to everyday crime. It's not acceptable that the police have to make priorities that go into people's sense of justice. Furthermore, we want to strengthen police prevention. We want a police force that is visible in the streets and the surrounding environment and that prioritises prevention and early response to young people in the risk zone. The police must have an economic space to increase staffing and strengthen prevention. Unfortunately, this room does not exist in the government's budget for next year. That is why every year the Christian People's Party, with red-green rule, and also this year, has had a significantly higher admission to the police. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is strengthening the courts somewhat in its draft budget. This is absolutely necessary after several years of meagre budgeting for the courts, increasing the level of cases and stopping employment in the sector. But the increase is not sufficient. That is why the Christian People's Party is proposing further strengthening in our alternative budget. We can't allow the courts to become a clog in the criminal justice chain. In addition, we have received a judgment in the Supreme Court that will lead to further testing of a number of cases in which appeal proceedings have been refused without justification. The Council of State knows how much resources this will require of the courts and, for example, the European Court of Justice. an organ such as Ecocrim? And will the Council of State ensure that this is compensated in the revision of the budget? Finally, I would like to point out that a credible security policy requires Norwegian politicians to stop talking around the cave, and dares to attack the causes of violence, unrest and fear. Between 60 and 80 pst. of all violence caused by alcohol. 1.5 million Nordics are plagued by other people’s alcohol use. Nearly 50,000 women are physically injured by an intoxicated person every year. At the same time, the number of tipping points is increasing, and alcohol consumption is increasing sharply. Both research environments and the police criticise the peddling policy. The focus of the NRK programme was recently focused on a branding industry that is completely out of control and on police spending resources on weekends cleaning up flats and alcohol-related violence. The Christian People's Party has for a long time proposed to reduce the turnout time from 5 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 2:00 a.m. Here we have gradually received support from the government. Not least, the Minister of Justice, who has been talking about this for three years, has promised that something will happen this fall. But now it has come to the conclusion that the government will not do anything about the gift periods anyway. They would rather have new rounds of research reports. In this area, we do not need any more research. International research reports are unambiguous and massive. Experience from Norwegian cities that have introduced a reduced turnout time clearly shows that there will be less violence and unrest. The Visepolitist in Oslo asserts that the police see no need for more research, and that the connection between bulwark time and violence episodes is indisputable. Why is this proposal deleted? This cannot be due to a lack of research. The knowledge is there. It is, where appropriate, the ability and willingness to take knowledge seriously that is lacking. It's sad, whether it's once again the business interests that have overcome the concerns of safety, health and well-being, or there's the fear of making unpopular decisions that paralyze the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e838	The Christian People's Party is not represented in the Judicial Committee and has therefore not made its own observations on the 2011 budget. I have therefore looked a little bit into the party programme and the alternative budget for 2011. It is very good in the Christian People's Party's judicial policy, not least in the prevention and early intervention against young people in the risk zone. In my opinion, there is little distance between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. On the other hand, it would be interesting to hear how the Christian People's Party is dealing with potential partners on the right. What is the Christian People's Party's opinion on the cuts of the Progress Party in control settings, such as the Skatetaten, the Tolletaten and the Financial Supervisory Authority? What does the Christian People’s Party think about the reduction of alcohol taxes by the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e845	The representative could have continued, because there are several measures that I could have said I don't like. First, I'd like to say that if I had been allowed to do so, I'd like to sit on the Justice Committee; it's a very exciting committee. I'm very happy that there are several people who see the good justice policy of the Christian People's Party. But to answer the question, for my part and for the Christian People's Party, we want a greater commitment to prevention. We want to create a safer society, and I started my post with: it's about quality of life. That's why I'm glad too much of what the Labour Party and Government have done. But we're impatient. Here you can see a fairly comprehensive opposition, which gives more clarity to priorities and even more focus on, for example. Police. When it comes to the government question, I don't come up with any answers here. The only thing I can say is that the Christian People's Party is going to be crystal clear that we won't compromise on important things, and security in everyday life is one of the most important things for the Christian People's Party, because it's about quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e856	The Christian People's Party is basically quite close to the government's judicial and criminal policy, and that's good. When the Christian People's Party proposes to increase the pledge to the police to prevent and fight crime by 160 million. I have to remind you that we have increased the police budget by about 2.85 billion. kr for the period 2006-2010. We took the time budget lift for the police in 2010, with 1.3 billion dollars. kr. For 2011, we propose to strengthen police and prosecution authorities by about 550 million. Nominal kr. The real growth in the 2011 police budget is an additional 100 million. kr because some tasks have been transferred to other etatars. I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, but if it's not, I don't know if it's a ping ping-pong thing to say, "A strong bet on the police by adding $130 million." Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e861	First, I just want to say that the Christian People's Party has supported the increase that the government has brought with it. He's important and good. However, if you look at the police’s own operating report for the period 2002–08, the figures — and that is the police’s figures — show that there have been fewer visible officials. It is against the intention of police reform. It shows that you may not have closed it just as well, even if you have been given it up. That is why the Christian People's Party is impatient, and has shown by every budget that we are increasing. About 160 million. kr is enough, may be a good question, but at least it would have helped to get more people to work, one could get bigger rooms out. Then I think that one would also get a more visible police force; one could prioritise more of the everyday crime that I feel is that unfortunately one does not have the ability to prioritize today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e867	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e870	First of all, I want to say that I think this debate is much better than many of the budget debates I've been in – this is my tenth justice debate in Stortinget, so I've been in on some. There are two aspects of the debate that I think are important now, following the efforts that have been made in the justice sector over the last few years. The first is what the representative of Ropstad is making a very good spokesman for: the question of how we can prevent crime from occurring. We must never forget to include that aspect when we discuss resources, because the most effective way to get more resources into the justice sector is to prevent better, and it is the very best way to save life in terms of quality of life. Avoiding criminal offences – it seems obvious, but it should be said – is the best thing to do. So, as you can see, the Natteravn advertisement, which is about the violence episode that didn't happen, is very good. The second aspect of the debate, which I also value very much, is that the case-rapporteur and the chairman of the committee, Mr Sandberg, were involved in his speech, and as I think it is worthwhile that he spends some time on, namely that when so much money has been invested in the justice sector over the last few years, we also have to be able to ask questions about how the money is being spent and what kind of results we actually get out of them. I have been quite open from this pulpit and also from the public vocabulary that there is a debate we must at all times dry up, and the time is right in the field of justice, to debate those issues. That is why we have put forward a very broad approach to the reform of results, and I hope that the input that has now been made in the debate warns that the justice policy and the Stortinget as such want to address that issue, because that is absolutely necessary. I do not particularly believe in major reforms in public sectors without having comprehensive, wide-ranging policy solutions around it. That's why I want to say from the debate that we in the government are open to talk to the opposition on the issue of structure. We have taken some action in terms of structure, outside the police, which, in my opinion, is very important – Follo Police District, for example, is a trial project that will provide us with a very good basis for what we are doing in the future. So both in the case of the police, and in the case of criminal services, the time has come to discuss this. Then I was very stimulated by the line from André Oktay Dahl to the representative of Boehler, who was assigned to make five more or less structural changes that have been made now, in the last period. And I think Boehler answered very well. But there is more that could be added – whether Bohemia had had time in its reply. It is a significant shift in both structure and effort when building down a 3 000 - atoning queue. It is a significant shift when we chose to use so much resources and legal resources to establish a DNA reform that contributes to more clarification. It is a significant shift when we triple the admission to the Police College – yes, the only way to get more police in Norway is to increase the recording. It is a significant shift when you introduce a completely new type of shelter, namely the electronic home soning. It is a significant shift when you are about to establish the 11th detention unit in Norwegian prisons. It's a significant shift when you get courts to switch to video and sound to a greater extent than what you've done before. It is a significant shift in the extension of the aid law system, which means that those who are victims of crime will know about it before submitting a notification – it is widely supported here in Stortinget, and so it has come. And it's a significant change that we now have the investment in the expulsion and return of foreigners who commit criminal offences in Norway – only this year it seems that we are reaching a forced return of 500 people. We must be happy about that. It is also a significant change that we have established more than 300 police councils, which are good cooperation bodies, especially in the prevention perspective. In this way, I am glad that we are also given the opportunity to discuss this. The police budget, as several of its representatives have been involved, has increased massively. We had an increase in 2010 of 1.3 billion. kr, and it is proposed to continue it – it is important to note. Swivel measures which came in 2009 and which meant that efforts should be made to build up civilian jobs in a time of crisis where we needed employment have been allowed to remain, and that is what we are going to do when we assess the budgetary situation. There are not so many public agencies that since 2005 can indicate an increase in operating budgets of almost 50 p.m., so I have difficulties being stamped as the minister who was to cut the police budgets. It has also produced results in relation to the total number of annual works, with close to 1700 from 2005 to 2009. You should bring this with you when you describe it as if the police case is almost on a couch bed. So I would also point out that our main tool is actually that the government has chosen to put a lot of effort into increasing the admission to the Police College. It's also that in the crew plan, we were recommended to go to 560 students; we chose 720. It's 150–170 more than the Joint Police Association recommended. I have to be allowed to challenge especially the Right, which says that by 2015 there will be 2000 police posts more than the government has proposed: How can you do that? If you assume in the calculation that no one ends, that no one retires, you will have to have 2,000 extra annual work by 2015. When the Right has opted for the same admission to the Police College as the rest of the parties, that means that you should actually have a recording of at least 2,000 in 2012 to achieve that goal. There's a little realism in it. For a party, and for a representative like André Oktay Dahl, who often goes high in the media and flags this, one must also, given the Right's assumption that no one ends, in the Storting, be able to answer how to achieve what is said outwardly is a goal. I am pleased that the efforts now made in relation to the Police College are producing significant results, and we are probably actually at some sort of break-even when it comes to the number of police year-olds. Now we want to see growth, but it assumes that the government is doing what we've done this year, and what we're proposing to do next year. We suggest that sufficient resources be put in to employ those who are graduates. It's said to be seagoing. We've been through the numbers of how many have got a job, so I'm not going into that right now, but I'm still recording that there are 172 vacancies out in police Norway. Most of them will not be suitable for a police college student. This will mean getting up, and then there will be job vacancies. So for those who now pass the tests beyond the fall, I don't think it's as wrong as someone wants it to be. With this budget proposal, the government has also chosen to give priority to the fight against economic crime. We have had a very good round in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on organised crime. Economic crime is a supporter of this. That's the background for the bet here. We will also show that we need to see the criminal justice chain in its entirety. I'm taking the challenge from the representative André Oktay Dahl in that field. It's important, I've been saying that all along, but it's also the background that the government chooses to invest something in the police, that we increase significantly in the courts, which actually now deliver very well – they're the fastest in Europe, and, in my opinion, write very good decisions, without me going in and evaluating the individuals – and that we continue to increase the capacity of criminal services. It is quite obvious that more than half of those who are now in Norwegian prisons report sentences of less than 60 days. Increasing home sonar with electronic control means that the government is a dangerous path. It provides good rehabilitation and good capacity. The parts that cut there, i.e. The Progress Party must, of course, take on board the fact that its draft budget creates a criminal body with significantly less capacity at a time when the police only deliver better and better. There are far more attacks, especially by foreign citizens, and fortunately we also see that the crime trend is downwards. It is a pleasure to see a fall in gross burglary of nearly 50 p.m. in Oslo. This is a good sign that increased resource supply is working, but also a good sign that you are organizing in the right way to break the foreign bonds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e906	This is no new challenge: the Council of State is very familiar with my first question. It is confirmed in proposal No. 23, from the Party of Prosperity, and now also to the Right. It's about DNA analyses and the RMI. I can't in any way understand the motive and agenda of the government when you allow DNA analyses to be almost an obstacle to ensuring legal certainty. Recently, the undersigned has become aware of two cases of rape where 8 and 9 months have passed before the analysis has been completed. Why is it that the government continues to maintain the monopoly and does not, for example, use GENA, a woman company that has received the founding price? Why haven't they been able to analyse these types of DNA samples?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e913	I have received this question many times, and my answer is the same. So that's how we think it's related to significant legal security challenges for DNA analysis, and for that reason, we believe it's right that it's held in the hands of the Forensic Institute. Then it is that the RMI has been significantly strengthened over these years, and significant results have also been seen in terms of the number of trace samples and person samples being analysed. In terms of the person samples, you're on track, but it's the track samples you're following with time. Then I am pleased – as I also said last time I got a reply to this question – that during the summer and these months that have passed until now, you have actually come into a situation where you handle more track samples than what comes in. So you're about to build the balances down and you're also going to have the process down. It's my hope that at least 80 pst. of these samples shall be treated within the time limits set before the start of the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e920	Yes, I record that I get the same answer, and I think it is simply unsustainable that you stick to a monopoly situation when we know that the type of DNA analysis can be carried out in five to ten days. Although there is a small private feature in GENA in Stavanger, I think that the Council of State and the government play with legal certainty when they have such an attitude. I can't see if the RMI provides any greater legal certainty than the others had to provide. But then to another challenge. It goes on with proposal No. 22, from the Progress Party. We've been discussing for years what happens to the police students in relation to some giving guarantees, and then it turns out that you don't get the results you want. The Progress Party now wants a greater commitment, both from government and from big business, to get more out of the Police College now. In order to ensure that this happens, the Progress Party will provide a guarantee, at least until 2020, where we have a common target of 2 officials per 1000 inhabitants. Can't the government assess it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e927	It's nice to have this opportunity to clear up a little of what the government has said about this, because it's the same thing: we guarantee that we can do what we can to ensure that those who are trained from the Police College get a job – and it would be strange if they didn't get a job. This is also the background to the fact that we have chosen to strengthen the operational budgets, both last year, this year and also next year, in order to be able to employ the newly educated. So I have to say that in order to be a college that is gradually teaching more than 400 students, where we see that more than 300 of them have got a job before the winter has properly inserted, and where you are now recruiting the last 80-90 students who have passed the test in the fall, I actually think that this is a pretty good result. But it will not be possible to guarantee a job to anyone who says they should have a job at their home. You have to accept to move, and you also have to accept that you have to apply for jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e939	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on the 10th anniversary of this kind of debate. Considering that I have suggested a few times that he should go off, I do not know if I should welcome him back next year, after the paperwork that will soon come deserved. But at least it is a misunderstanding that the Right proposes 2,000 in addition to the government's proposals. We're proposing 2,000 more, so there's multiple ways to read it. I record that the government parties read our comments incorrectly, but we will come back to that in later articles. For five years, as some budget debates have been conducted, the main issue for the Council of State to combat crime has been to reduce the turnout times. The question is, how does the Council of State feel, in a majority government, that his main measures to combat violence, especially in cities, now seem to be nothing of which?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e946	First of all, I just have to be allowed to say that I feel that the Right is in free flight from their somewhat aggressive media show that you are going to have 2,000 more than the government by 2015, and then you run from that at the first round where you actually have the opportunity to increase the recording to the Police College and not do it. So if we're going to have 2,000 more annual works, we're going to have to train more. Therefore, if you are going to get into port with this – for the Right part – you are going to have a 2000 admission to high school law school. When it comes to giving, I think it's a particularly important measure to slow down crime. But here are two strategies. The first is what the government is working on, where you want to look this up more towards the research that is now being done, especially SIRUS. I think that's okay. It's good to live with. It's good that it gets well thought out. The second is that the municipalities have free access to do this. In this way, the representative André Oktay Dahl should not ask me, but right-wing local politicians around, who have recently proposed giving away almost 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e953	Over the course of a few years, we have seen the emergence of a brand new crime arena. It's data crime. It goes on ID thefts, it goes on economic crime, more use of technology and more advanced technology. Recently, in several articles in the media, the possibility for authorities to prevent data attacks and cybercrime has been weakened. The authorities have more tools, through NSM, NORCERT, etc. My questions are: Does the Council of State feel comfortable with today's security systems? How, if necessary, will the government meet the challenges of increasing data security?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e961	There is no need to minimize the situation we see online and through ICT – not just for the public but also for the private. We see, as the representative says, that the network and technology become more a base for criminal acts. That is why this must be attacked from at least two teams. The first is the prevention where I mean NSM, among other things. do a good job to prevent and prevent. A strategy for this type of crime has been developed, which is now under preparation by the government – the deadline for consultation was well set in November – on which we are going to put a lot of effort into, and where there are a number of measures, both to prevent and to repair. When the criminal has happened, there is reason to point out that one of the main tools we have for investigating this type of case is that the police have access to traffic data. Then you're concerned with the crime that's happening online, at least we have to stand up so that the police have the opportunity to retrieve traffic data. I also hope that the Right will contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e968	I became very eager to take the floor after listening to the exchange of lines between the representative Octay Dahl and the Council of State, because there was the representative Oktay Dahl on ‘fan escape’ – I think the expression was – away from his point of view. I must admit that I have a great sense of government council Storberget's attitudes to security and prevention, because he has pointed out what I would call one of the most important causes of violence crime, simply alcohol and alcohol abuse. There I know that the Council of State has a position. He wrote it himself in the Evening Post: ‘We want to reduce the amount of alcohol-related violence. Research and experience point in the same direction: The reduction of turnout time works. That is why the Ministry of Health and Welfare has proposed to reduce the maximum time for donation.» When I heard the exchange of lines instead, I got the impression that this is something that only the municipalities can do. Has the Council of State strayed from its own position? He has highlighted and highlighted just how important it is to reduce the timing of abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e978	No, my answer is the same. I believe that we must bear in mind that the main cause of violence in particular in Norway is alcohol use. In 60-70 p.m. in the case of violence, it is not only the offended person but also the perpetrator affected by alcohol. It goes back to a clear pattern. If we see an increase in alcohol consumption in Norway as a whole, we get an increase in the crime of violence. That is why I believe that the government's consultation note, where it was proposed to limit the time of the shift to 9.00 p.m. 02 on a central basis, is a good proposal. But now comes the report from SIRUS, and you have to take a new round on it. But there is still access for the municipalities to control this sea. A lot of people say it's important that the municipalities get to make it seagoing. I believe that we should await the SIRUS report that comes about this. I would also like to say that it is important to look at both the charging instrument, the wine monopoly system and to maintain the advertising ban in order to ensure that the total consumption remains low. This is one of the reasons why we have little crime in Norway, compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e985	I thank you for your answer. But I feel at the same time that it's going away from a point of view. I have used the same argument myself, especially to those who think it is important for the municipalities themselves to decide. Today, they have a chance to decide within 1:00 p.m. 03, so those who really think that the municipalities are going to decide themselves, have to fight for 24-hour locations, and at least I am. But what I see as the big challenge is that it's taken too much time already. I agree with the Council of State that this is of course not the only instrument. You have to look at how the gift is represented, and you can go into that whole problem. But what I'm disappointed about is that the Council of State has gone a long way from having a very eager and pressing it through. What is the point of getting more, when we have so much research — both international and national — that shows that there is a clear link between alcohol access, alcohol abuse and choice? Why do we have to go through more rounds? Can't we get it right away?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e992	There was a significant debate during the consultation, in which research was just called for to show up on this. I believe that we also have a lot, as the representative Ropstad has also said, but is quite comfortable to await the report by Sirus on this matter. I am very pleased that the representative Ropstad is impatient about this. One of the reasons why we believe that this has been an important proposal is that we have seen, among other things. In Oslo, there is a violent situation and a growing call for more police resources to do something about it, and where local political authorities do not follow up and do as many other municipalities have done. So the impatience that Ropstad now points out to me, I also think you should be able to show, among other things. to the Christian People's Party in Oslo, which may have an opportunity to influence politics locally, and which must be able to intervene in the city that is perhaps the most plagued by this. There you can make decisions immediately if you want to, because there is a law house in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e999	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1002	In the 2011 budget setting, we are taking another step towards a safer society. The initiative on police and prosecution authorities will lead to more offences being solved. But the most important thing in the fight against crime is good, preventive measures, which are also occupied by the Council of State. Therefore, it is vitally important what is being done by measures before crime is committed, and what kind of measures are being established in the area of rehabilitation. The work on a good return of convicted people to society is therefore important, so that a new crime is prevented. Developing good recreational provision and retention measures aimed at children and young people is an important part of preventing crime. Unfortunately, there are still some people who are unable to stay away from the criminal racetrack. Then it is important that society invests in comprehensive measures, which are geared towards post-preservation and the post-preservation period. Government, together with public and private agencies, is strongly committed to building future plans for it's deployment of its ability and ability to master its own life situation after even reconciliation. In addition to the social network and the interaction between voluntary organisations and criminal services, it is also important to actively focus on measures such as providing them with training. We know that reading and writing problems are more widespread among doms than elsewhere in the population. For this reason, measures to stimulate training and training are important measures in rehabilitation schemes. Today, we have a lot of knowledge — both nationally and internationally — about what needs to be done to make it possible for former offenders to find their place in society. This is no new knowledge. In 1841, a Commission said the following about ‘Strafanstalter’, etc. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «A multitude of prisoners have by their release of prison no substance and nothing to feed on. [[...]] Therefore, if the beneficial effects of the treatment in prison should not lose weight, but should remain of duration, the prisoner should not be left in the critical moment from which he is released. Provision for the release of the prisoner and for the prevention or prevention of his return to the criminal course thus constituted a necessary condition for the permanent effect of the treatment in the criminal institution. [[...]] So this was already said in 1841. Let's all get to the 'critical moment', both to save society from excessive spending and also to protect individuals from suffering. Contrary to the Progress Party, the government’s judicial policy will contribute to more security, less crime and good legal security. It is not without reason that in the last five years the priorities and efforts have been concentrated around the police, the courts and the criminal services, and next year we are taking new steps towards a safer society. We often hear that there are too few policemen in the streets, and that the police have too little resources. Yes, it will probably always be so that many will want more resources. What is still the actual situation is that we have increased the police budget by nearly 3 billion. kr for the period 2006-2010. In 2011, we increased the budget by more than 550 million. Nominal kr. In addition, tasks are transferred to other etatars corresponding to 100 million. kr. Then it is also true that there must of course be a man in the police who is defenceworthy. I think that the main reason why the police have our understaff is that there wasn't enough capacity at the Police College in earlier times when the Right controlled the country by means of the Progress Party. A lot of this will now be corrected by a record 720 aspirants in 2011 and the second consecutive year. I just need to remind you that the student survey in 2002 – when the Progress Party and the Right made the state budget – was 240 aspirants. So today this is a triple.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1033	Let me start by saying that I can agree with the representative Chaudhry. The budget is not only a numerical budget, it is also a governance document. Then it's important that you both keep your hands on the steering wheel, and that a lar can't be running in the filling, because we know how it can end. It has been suggested from several speakers – and it has come in clear order – that we have strengthened the justice sector, and especially the police. It is true that we have greatly strengthened the sector since 2006, but the question is whether we have strengthened it enough. According to the government, we have established 1,637 years' police work in the period 2005-2010. Then my question is, where are they? Where are these 1,637 year works that you've increased by? When you travel around police Norway, when you visit cannon offices, when you visit police officers, when you visit trust-elects around Norway, they wonder exactly the same thing: where are these new annual works? When you travel around and hear how things stand in the police districts and in police Norway, you don't get the impression that you've increased by 1,600 years. You don't get the idea that you've increased x the number of billions since 2005. What you get the impression is a cop in crisis. We get the impression of a police officer who has little resources and doesn't have the ability to do the job they're supposed to do. I have been to a number of police districts where they are asking whether to replace the car, which has gone 600,000, or whether to hire a person. If they replace the car, they have no one to drive it, and if they hire a person, he has no car to drive. I was even at a janitor's office where they had used up their overtime budget, which was not managed by the janitor's office itself, but was managed by the operating centre. They had exceeded that by NOK 280,000, which is relatively much for a small office with three employees. The bilgeman sat there and wondered if he would buy ink cartridges for his printer. Then we're in a situation that we can't stand. I was also in a police district where they have a dog patrol. They did not get enough funds to buy the cars they wanted to fit the dogs. The cars they could get were too small to get the cages into the cars – on which they turn to the Police Directorate and are told to buy smaller dogs. Then there's something that's not right. Then there is something wrong with the police in Norway. Then you can ask yourself, "Who's to blame?" Who's to blame for the failure of Police Norway? Is it the police themselves? Is it the operatives around this country who work and labor every day to make our society safer? Is it the police officers who are unable to use the funds allocated to them properly, or is it the Police Directorate who, together with the government, is imposing more and more tasks on the police? There's one thing that we can agree on in this room, and that several people have been involved in: the police need a restructuring. Police need restructuring in order to make the best use of their resources. If we're going to have a restructuring, we're going to have to start one place, and it's at the top. It doesn't help to start at the bottom, as we always do, with those who labor and work every day to keep this society safe. We have to start at the top and do the restructuring from there. So we have to figure out: what tasks are the police going to do? What are the tasks of the police today? What tasks will the police perform in the future – should they have fewer or more tasks? Then we can see how many districts we're going to have, how many loner offices and police posts we're going to have. But this must always be an assessment based on both demography, geography and not least the crime that is taking place at all times. There have been several talks here about the admission to the Police College. We now have a recording of 720 people. That's very good. In fact, the government should be very grateful for that. But the challenge is that they have to get a job when they get out. That's been the big question. The Council of State stated that there are 172 vacancies in the police today – 172 vacancies waiting for newly trained personnel. But as the Council of State was also involved, not all of these positions can be applied for by newly educated people. Then it is time to go and wait for someone to apply for an appearance. Then you might ask yourself, how interesting it is for some police officers to seek inspiration for senior positions, when you know that the job they have to do is to cut. It's saving and cutting the budgets. Then it is not very exciting to try to get a higher position in the police department. There's also been a talk about the helicopter service. Today, the Oslo Police are responsible for this service. We heard in a reply here that the police in Oslo have increased their appropriations and have bought helicopters and are better equipped than ever to perform this service. In 2010, the helicopter service had two months of summer vacation. It was two months the helicopter was standing on the ground, because they didn't have the economy to use it. We also know that overtaking these helicopters takes a lot of time and requires some resources, and when this happens, the police don't have an operational helicopter. How is this justified when every police district in South Norway that can use this service says, "We need this helicopter." Nevertheless, this service is deprived. If the Advance Party comes to power, we have at least six helicopters placed in different places in Norway, and they're going to be 100 pst. operational. So finally, I want to say a little bit about relapses and punishments. It has been mentioned here that the relapse rate is now down to 20 pst. after two years. It was such that the previous rate of relapse was measured after five years, and then, of course, it was much higher. If you want to get the relapse rate down to zero, it's not very hard either. It's just to set the goal time to one day, and then I think it's down to zero. But I think if we go in and look at the numbers today, and look at how the rate of relapse increases as the measurable years increase, I'm not in doubt that the rate of relapse has not fallen at all in the last ten years. That's what's important. We like to compare with other countries, but we have to compare with our own country to get a real comparison. The party of progress wants stricter penalties. Yes, we want strict punishments, but at the same time we also want rehabilitation in prisons. It's a prerequisite that those who are inside also have the opportunity to get into a society like law-abiding, free citizens. To achieve this, rehabilitation is one of the most important things. The representative Klinge was wondering if it's revenge it's about when we're going to arrest and judge people. It has nothing to do with revenge. It has to be able to deal with society, and the Norwegian society as a whole has to feel that justice is happening. Then it's time to mention: when a person who kills his wife in a very ugly way is to hit the street two months after the event and meet the parents of the victim, and he meets the children – his own children, who know that this person has killed their mother, we can ask, where is justice? How do people feel that the legal society cares for their interests when such incidents occur? These things are not going to happen, but because of some fines in the penal code, they happen anyway. If this is what Klinge's representative thinks is right, we have a very different view of what's fair in this country. Finally, it was mentioned that DNA is important for legal certainty. The Council of State actually says in its statement that he doesn't trust GENA – that this is so important that we have to have it at the Institute of Forensic Medicine. When he is not willing to look at GENA's possibilities to do this, he immediately says that he does not trust GENA. Then my question is: Is the RMI completely flawless? In that case, it's very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1059	The representative Ørsal Johansen used the concept of driving in the filling. But the President did not feel that the report was of any budget proposal, and thus the President will let it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1062	Various representatives from the Government Parties and the State Councils have challenged the proposals and measures of the Right to increase police staff by 2 000 people. They thus avoid giving light to today’s real situation — that police coverage is exactly the same today as when the government joined and contrary to the crew report, which makes a significant progress. But you're standing still. Then you attack the Right, which has pointed to the measures that are necessary to strengthen the manning. Instead of using ICT investment from operation and preventing the filling of jobs in the districts, as the government does, we use police budgets to strengthen staffing. Last night, it was well, in the news we saw the prosecution leader in the Hordaland police district, who pointed out exactly this situation, where there is a great deal of concern that the police have to cut off posts even until next year. It is suspected that the Right’s proposal to strengthen senior measures to keep highly qualified, experienced police officers in work for a longer period of time, which will also help to strengthen police staff. So I strongly urge the government parties to study closer to the Right Justice Budget, the Police Budget, both for the current year and the draft budget that is on the table for next year. A single judicial committee stresses the importance of knowledge-based justice policy rather than single-handedness. In this way, governments are making best efforts to improve the security of society in the long term and effectively. This is a good starting point for meeting today's and tomorrow's crime. It is the systematic and targeted work that produces results, and not the spontaneous and acute measures that are taken as a result of exposed isolated episodes. That is why, in the opinion of the Right, justice policy must be based on the solid foundation that we have built up over a long period of time and with different governments. The level of knowledge of the police, courts and criminal justice system is a very good tool for creating security in society. At the same time, we stress from the Right that justice policy must not become static. We know that the crime scene is constantly changing. Therefore, we must not be self-satisfied with the belief that today's solutions will solve the crime challenges in the foreseeable future. From the right, we have therefore presented a wide range of representative proposals from this very perspective this year. I mention prevention measures to prevent young people's recruitment to crime, measures against child abuse via the Internet, combating aggressive begging, the fight against organised crime, the resources of the civil servants of the police, and the police's work on asylum cases. These are issues that individually are very important. All the Right's proposals would individually have created a better, warmer and safer society. In addition, we also promoted proposals to develop a comprehensive police study to provide the basis for an overall strategy to meet the challenge of today's and tomorrow's justice policy. Unfortunately, however, this was voiced by the red-greens, mainly by reference to budget lines, individual measures, individual projects, operational analysis and performance reform. This is disappointing because such an opportunity to establish a broad platform for justice policy could strengthen society's efforts to combat crime. Do we know what works in the fight against crime? Yeah, we know a lot. Prevention in a wide range is important. The justice system is a norm for the sense of justice in society, and criminal reactions must reflect the general perception of dealing with criminal offences. The presence and efforts of the police are very important to combat crime. Therefore, it is disappointing that the police coverage is the same today as when the red-green government joined – namely, 1.6 police officers and women per 1 000 inhabitants. In spite of the sound self-crust from the government parties of their own efforts, then, there is some rest on the spot. Right-wing thinks it has to be acted now, and that we cannot lose one of the newly educated policemen who are trained, while many end up for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1075	We who live in Norway are very privileged in many ways. According to the United Nations, we are actually the world's best country to live in, and our social democratic social model, where everyone contributes according to ability and receives services and benefits as needed, regardless of whether the money book is thick or thin, contributes to the good life of most of us. One of all the privileges we have in Norway is that we have a high level of security in everyday life. Of course, justice policy is important in order to feel secure. Those who work in the police, the courts and the criminal services do a very good job every day to secure our lives. In my article, I want to focus on criminal care. There has been a lot of good in criminal care in recent years. When the red-green government came to power, two important grips were taken. One was to do something with the long queue. Nearly 3,000 convicted people were waiting for their sentence. The second was to improve the content of the compensation in order to prevent the convictions from committing new crimes after acquittal. Both of these handles have produced good results. The creation of nearly 800 settlements, some 650 of which have been in prison since 2006, has considerably reduced the queue. The government also embarked on a major effort with a big message to point out the direction of the future criminal justice system. The message was given the descriptive name Penalty that works — less crime — safer societies. Work is now well under way on the launch of this big message. The content of the housing has been significantly improved by, inter alia, School departments, libraries, detention centres and nav in prison, as well as alternative forms of punishment such as drug programmes with judicial control and electronic redress — to name a few. In addition, a great effort is being made by many organisations that carry out significant peer work and provide help and support to those who make a judgment, and follow them up after the atonement. This work also prevents convictions from committing new crimes. In May this year, a Nordic relapse study was presented. The investigation triggered a relapse into new crime two years after abduction. The results showed that Norway got the best out, with a relapse rate of 20. This shows that the government's policy is working. Norwegian criminal services are on the right track. Reduced relapses result in less crime and thus more security. It's a good contribution to a safer society. Although there has been a positive development in criminal care in recent years, there is still a lot to be done before we can be satisfied. We know, among other things: a large proportion of those convicted of criminal acts in Norway have both drug problems and mental problems that directly affect the criminal career. The government’s commitment to drug retention units in prison is therefore very important and must continue. For those suffering from mental illness, provision is made through prison health services. They do a good job and refer to the specialist health service where necessary. Nevertheless, many prisoners in Norwegian prisons feel that they are not being helped by their mental illness, and we must take that very seriously. Cooperation and the provision of specialist health services in psychiatry must be further developed and improved also for convicted persons. Finally, I would like to dwell a little on the comments from the Committee on Budgets. In their comments, they say that they will allow private actors to develop penal enforcement units. That the Progress Party is eager to release private actors in the public sector is nothing new, but I am very concerned when the party goes on to say that prison – and refers in particular to its own prison for foreign criminals – is to be put out to tender and operated by private individuals. In the view of the Labour Party, the handling of criminals must be carried out by the public for several reasons. In the worst case, the privatisation of prisons can actually open up to criminal actors in the operation. It could form the ground for newly organized crime. I see that I have some time left, and then I will refer to the comment on the Right regarding the police coverage, where the members point out that the Right has a target of a massive increase in police force in Norway by 2015, with a total of 2,000 more police officers than is assumed in the crew report. This is good, but we are not proposing how to achieve these objectives, which have been pointed out by many, and we are still meeting a thorough response.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1102	So far this budget debate has been a classic debate that we've seen them in the red-green period, that the red-green parties use the main weight of their speaking time to shoot at the opposition and make arguments against the opposition's judicial policy instead of promoting their own policies and telling what the red-green parties want with justice policy. But cake I think the representative Jan Bøhler takes when he tries to present it as if crime goes down. Statistics are statistics, but reality is reality. I think that the representative Jan Bøhler should go out to the street here in Oslo and talk to his own voters and ask if they share the view that the representative Bøhler is now trying to present it as in this debate. Then I think the representative of Bohemia is going to get a fairly clear and unambiguous answer: the people of Oslo don't feel safe under the law policy of the Red-Green Government. In 2010, we have had a reasonably critical situation in the courts. The Courts have had a very tough economic situation. There have been job stops, which have made several major dishes unable to fill up in relation to the departure they have had, and in relation to the increased access to the case. It has been critical, as in 2010, there has been a significant increase in the number of cases — particularly civil cases — before the courts. In Norway, we have our own ability to underinvest and get on their backbones in making the necessary investments. We also look at the ICT situation, not only in the police but also in the courts. Getting a good ICT platform in the Norwegian courts should be the easiest thing in the world. This is a relatively small one with few units. That makes us, for example, in such a way that the new penal code cannot now be applied. We're about to get a proposal for a new law on land change from the government. It will take four to five years before it can be put into service, as it is not up to date with the ICT situation. This requires significant lifting. We see that the government has put something on the court budget for 2011, but that is not enough in relation to the great promises that you need. I represent one of the most central strokes here in the country, are elected from Akershus and live in Rome. Rome is the region of the country that is growing the strongest percentage of its population. Our police district is a neighbour of Oslo, with the challenges it poses as crime is cross-border. This means that the police district from which I come will need significantly increased police resources in the future. We have less than other comparable districts. It is surprising when we now have increased the police budget, as the red-greens boast, that we in the police districts are told that even the price increase is not fully compensated. The Justice Committee was not long ago on the Gardermoen and was briefed on the challenges posed by the location of the airport to Rome's police districts. It's clear that Gardermoen is a national task. We need this to be arranged – that the Gardermo will either be decommissioned from Rome's police district, or that Rome's police districts will be fully compensated for the costs and resources required by Gardermoen. Such a national task should probably be directly subject to the Police Directorate as a separate police district, for the tasks that are there are so peculiar that it should have had its own focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1115	Right, that's $300 million. kr more to the police than the red-green ones, and it seems that representatives especially from the Workers' Party have hurt to swallow it. Last year, we proposed 200 million. Extra kroner. As our good representative André Oktay Dahl pointed out, it must now be acted in order not to lose all the newly educated policemen we now get out of the Police College, while other policemen join or retire prematurely. In addition, we know that many positions in the police districts are kept awake, simply because you have a lot of other things to spend on. Therefore, it is not reassuring that the Council of State does not respond well enough to how he will carry out increased ICT bets without jeopardising the police’s available resources. The police locally report on vacant positions, the deferred purchase of cars and the deferred purchase of equipment. Now I'm in the finance committee, and we're reading through a lot of answers from different departments to questions from different parties in the budgetary process. I would recommend the State Council of the Ministry of Justice to have a better review, because here are some of the thinnest and shortest answers, and often you don't even want to answer some of the questions asked. Rather, look at the Ministry of Finance’s practice — which allows you to answer questions that you do not like in a proper, thorough and objective way. Several have spoken here in the Chamber about the years of treatment of the analysis institute GENA in Stavanger. It is amazing for us who are not in the Justice Committee and are working closely on these issues, how far there is between the problems that the police have in relation to how long the line is at the Forensic Institute, which also has other problems, and that we have a Council of State and a government that, for reasons of principle – I have continued to benefit from finding the cause for it – will not use private analysts, despite GENA being able to deliver faster and cheaper. I think the Council of State should have this a little bit more in mind when he verbally spoke in the media ‘anxious’ about the situation of the Institute of Forensics. I point out that there have been several suggestions from the Right – and a whole bunch of questions in the Questionnaire. Right will have 2,000 more police officers than today by 2015. It has been taken up by the representatives Octay Dahl and Werp in their posts and replies. Had the representative Torve heard these comments, she could also have avoided reading the final section of her script. As more attention is now put on the police, more on the courts, and the impact of new criminal law approaches, the need for prison capacity will increase. It does not appear that the government has ambitions to increase capacity after the opening of the Halden prison. There have been several questions on Question Time, and for the second time in a row there is a concrete proposal for the Minister of Justice. In the Haugesund region, 42 sites have been documented and reported as needed, in addition to the 18 sites existing in an old, inappropriate prison, which is in operation, because it is simply so small. The region has gathered around a desire for a new prison with a capacity of 60–80. I refer in particular to the proposals of the Right and Advance Party and the Right and Advance Party comments on improving the settlement capacity of the Haugesund region. It's precarious. We know that the police use a lot of resources – too much resources – that could have been used for other things, to drive prisoners back and forth. At times, there is a great deal of shortage in maintenance areas. There is a great need to find out more places. In a region with 167 000 inhabitants and a very high level of police district, there are only 18 prisons. Therefore, Stortinget should support our proposal today, and the Minister of Justice should have a greater reach and focus on prison capacity after Halden. We can read relatively many question-time questions where State Council Storberget indicates that there will be an investigation, but it happens relatively little. The representative, Chaudhry, said that the Right has no alcohol policy because the Right supports current alcoholic rates. It is quite remarkable that today's alcohol rates have no alcohol policy, while tomorrow's is to have an alcohol policy. It sounds quite obvious when we also know that the Right's alcohol policy also has local spice policies and other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1132	Our justice policy should contribute to greater security, less crime and good legal certainty. That is why it is and is being allocated to the police, courts and judiciary. Too little and too late is a widely used concept from the opposition, and when repeated enough times in media debates, some start to believe that it is the actual situation. But that won't be true for that reason. Compared with the rest of Europe, Norway is a safe country. Most of us experience security in everyday life, and we can trust that the judiciary will ensure non-discrimination. Much has been achieved through these five years of red-green government, and I would like to take the opportunity to sum up some of the most important judicial issues that have been carried out so far and which are followed up further: It is this government that has almost tripled the admission rate at the Police College. It's this government that's been increasing police staff. It is this government that has focused on violence in close relationships. It is this government that has established seven children's houses. It is this government that has implemented a successful DNA reform. It is this government that has been defeated by the cows. It is this government that has also increased the grants to non-governmental organisations that do a good job in the field of justice. It is this government that has ensured an increase in emergency preparedness by setting up an emergency guard with a doctor at all rescue bases. It is this government that has presented an action plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism. ‘Common security — common responsibility’ is a good concept. It's not just the police who are responsible for our security. We all have a responsibility, and especially we who sit in this assembly. If we really mean it, if we really want a safer society, we have to make sure that the police get the best tools. Then I don't think about clothing, I don't think about weapons equipment. Then I think of the Data Storage Directive, which in serious cases will be the police's best weapon against organised crime. It's amazing to see that a law-and-order party like the Progress Party, which, in every context, talks about how important it is to fight all forms of crime, has turned itself out completely here. The inclusion of the Data Storage Directive is not a fall-back for the EU, but it will provide us with a modern tool to combat modern crime. This is one of the police's most sought-after tools to help combat new forms of cross-border crime. Studies have also been carried out to show that there is a majority of the population in order to introduce the Directive. I have talked about much of the good work that has been done. Finally, I will mention the civil defence. Here I could have wanted something more, but it is not completely black in this area either. To date, in 2010, more than 2000 people, helmets and boots have acquired new investment clothes for about half of the crew. For 2011, the acquisition of response clothing is expected to continue. I am, in fact, proud of the justice policy we are pursuing today. It's an offensive justice policy. There has been a lot of money allocated to the field of justice, and now we are waiting under stress for more good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1184	In this debate there are many areas to focus on, but I want to take a few of them that I think need some extra attention. First I want to talk a little bit about the victim, because the victim is the losing party when crime happens to the individual. We all know about criminal custody. But what about the care of the victims? This theme is absent from the public debate on crime, and I and the Progress Party want to do something about it. When we see the different measures taken to give the perpetrator the best possible starting point, I'm not against it, but it has to be balanced with the victims. George Kirkham became famous in the United States in the 1970s when he left his professorship in criminology to become a policeman. Why did he do that? Well, because in the middle of his own lecture he realized that as a professional he had removed himself from the very act, the criminal act, and instead moved on to a more abstract matter. In his book 'Signal Zero' he writes: Men who had ransacked, beaten, raped and killed, they always looked harmless where they put in their fine clothes. The crime, and the victims, had long since been reduced to words on one side, they had become abstractions and data. He also writes: And that's how judges, lawyers, jury members and supervisors meet criminal acts. Throughout the legal system, only the policeman is forced to see the damage caused by physical violence. Therefore, the victims become real to him, as they become it to ambulance drivers, doctors, and relatives. I repeat: the victims have been reduced to words on a sheet. When the Committee consulted on the budget, many organisations were present, but all focused on measures aimed at criminals. Isn't that a cross of thought? I was told by a police officer a joke that would make the attitude of many academics working on crime visible. Two criminologists walked along a road. Suddenly they see a woman who has been beaten ill, in the ditch. Huff then, say one to the other, now there's a perpetrator who needs help! Unfortunately, these attitudes are, in fact, quite widespread. That is why we have now made several proposals to address the role of the victim and the needs of the victim in a much wider context. We want the government to rely much more on vicissimology when various proposals are made and decisions taken. We want the government to investigate the organisation of victim care according to the model of Sweden, where there is also a separate victim fund where individual criminals have to contribute money. We want the government to set up its own victims' and relatives' representative who can uphold the rights of the victims. We also want to remove the limitation period for killing. It is not understandable that such a serious act should ever become obsolete. We want the government to set up an aid lawyer system for children who have been killed or who have died in suspicious circumstances. I hope that we can jointly lift up the victims and give them the help they need to move on in life. Not only is the criminal to be rehabilitated, but the victim also needs rehabilitation not only physically, but – and not least – also mentally. Furthermore, I would like to say a few words about the challenges that we are constantly hearing in the media. No later than this weekend, there was a bigger issue about what's going on in Oslo prison. Violence and harassment have become daily. The increase since last year is on formidable 112 pst. In particular, it is a challenge for employees to deal with foreign criminals because of cultural differences and language difficulties. When we look at the numbers from Oslo prison, where 60 pst. of the prisoners have foreign citizenship, and among the remaining 40 p.m. come from a large part of other countries and have a different ethnic background from Norwegian, it goes without saying that this is a melting pot of crime, where they can easily ‘find’ each other and build criminal networks that are very damaging. In addition, the flow of drugs makes the situation even more difficult. We have several proposals in the committee that will be able to remedy the situation, and our own prisons/criminal alien departments are one of these, so that a much greater degree of control can be exercised over individual groups. Stronger responses to drugs and more resources for criminal services are also proposed. There's a lot going on around us, and it's happening faster and faster. If we are to be able to meet this growing wave of crime, we must put in place measures that work. We see that Europe is struggling. The more Europe is struggling, the more we will notice this at home in terms of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1210	The great Swedish social democrat Tage Erlander has said that the greatest sense of freedom is the sense of security. Ensuring that you have a job to go to, ensuring that you get help when you get sick, and ensuring that there is a social safety net, are the key prerequisites for individual freedom. Security is essential in our welfare state. That is why the Labour Party is also pursuing a policy for less crime and for more security. After five years of red-green government, there are many arrows pointing in the right direction: the number of police students has risen, the cows have fallen. The percentage of information provided by the police has increased, while the length of proceedings for most types of cases in the courts has declined. It is the opposition's privilege to criticize the government, but a budget debate is also a good opportunity to highlight the differences between government and opposition. The bet of the red-green government is in stark contrast to what happened under the bourgeois government. Former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum describes the situation quite well in his book, the Ombudsman at work: ‘Right – with the Minister of Finance, the majority of the government and a former head of the Justice Committee around the table, chose creative performance suggestions rather than giving fresh money to strengthen law and order.’ The current Minister of Justice Dørum actually had to double the passport fees in order to achieve a never-ending increase in the police budget. Under the red-green government, the passport fees are halved again, and the police have got an increase of over 40 pst. in its budgets. There is also good reason to warn against the Party's judicial policy. They will implement drastic cuts in tax, financial supervision and customs. It will weaken the possibilities of detecting financial crime. It's serious, especially when we know that a lot of organized crime is closely related to the black economy. The representative Ørsal Johansen spoke about drunk driving earlier today. There is reason to mention that the Progress Party has repeatedly called for the closure of the U.S. Police. We know that the UP prevents traffic accidents, but is also important for taking mobile profit criminals. The proposal to shut down the UP is even more serious when we know that the Advance Party has previously made provision for the sale of alcohol at gas stations and the speed limit of 120 kilometers per hour. It's the recipe for Ville West states on Norwegian roads. Today, we are going to adopt a good budget for justice. But it is also worth remembering that much of the good justice policy, which is about prevention, is also happening in other budget lines. It's about the fight against high school drop-outs, it's about youth services, like cultural schools and sports services, and it's also about strengthening child protection. Norway has one of Europe’s most effective courts. In most of the cases in the Court of Justice, the time limit for the proceedings is reduced. Over the period 2006-2010, the appropriations allocated to the courts and the conflict council have increased by approximately 175 million. kr. We know that the situation in some courts has been tough. That's why we strengthened the courts by $15 million. kr in the revised budget earlier this year. And that's also why we're continuing to increase by $40 million. kr next year. Finally, I want to say something about what I think is one of our greatest challenges: violence against women and children. Because it's the crime that creates the most insecurity for most people. Violence against women is also one of the main obstacles to equality. In the state budget, there are many good measures: research projects on violence in close relationships, four new positions for Kripos, measures to increase the competence of all parts of the criminal chain in the case of children exposed to violence, and a separate project with the Norwegian Football Association on attitudes of men in the area of violence against women. Also in the area of violence against women, we need to improve prevention. That is why it is good that the Police Directorate has now been given the task of creating a strategy for preventing rape and violence in close relations with Oslo. There is a lot of good police work in that area today, but simple stories also tell us that there is room for improvement. Much has been done in the fight against violence against women and children. With the 2011 state budget, we're taking a few more steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1241	The President will recommend the representative of Håheim to argue against the draft budget of other parties instead of referring to them as ‘Ville West states on Norwegian roads’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1244	If we are to win the fight against crime, we cannot leave that fight to the police alone. I think the opposition's proposal here today is only about reactive reinforcements: either more police, victim systems or other types of arrangements that will come into force after crime has occurred. No matter what political spectacles you wear, it is beyond doubt that police Norway has had significant increases in resources over the last ten years. And the reason why I'm taking these ten years is that we're going to let go of a debate about who's given the most from 2000 to now. Oslo police, which has its own government budget line, have had the same development — even a little stronger growth. Today, about every five members of the police force in Norway are employed in the Oslo police district. They make a great effort every day to ensure the everyday life of the capital's inhabitants. But in one area they feel like they're fighting Don Quijote's fight, that's a fight against the windmills, and it's in the fight that's the result of the nightlife here in town. The Oslo police have criticized the city council's search policy a number of times, with good reason. Earlier in the debate, reference has been made to the statistics resulting from alcohol use in Norway. We know that a little over half of the violent crime is perpetrated by perpetrators who have been drinking alcohol. It's by no means the biggest single factor that we get victims of crime in Norway. For a number of years, the Oslo City Council has practised a policy on appropriations, which they themselves have called 'easy to get, easy to lose'. The first thing in this statement they have been able to deliver; it's easy to get. But it looks like it's almost impossible to lose it. I would like to quote from an eight-page letter sent by the Oslo Police to the City Council in connection with the rolling of an alcohol policy action plan: «For Oslo Police District, it is surprising and also encouraging that the municipality does not take the police arguments seriously. Large resources help to maintain the general tranquility and order of the city on weekends, and it must necessarily be at the expense of other tasks. Is it true that so much resources should be set aside to control private alcohol trading activities and their consequences? Had the city’s citizens served on other priorities? The fact that the considerations of nutrition and a ‘living nightlife’ should prevail before all other considerations is surprising. Apart from police resource use, victims of violence and other crime, persons who ‘wake up’ and have become perpetrators, there are many other problematic aspects of alcohol that deserve attention in an ‘alcohol policy action plan’. Yes, it has gone so far that even actors who normally promote the marketing of alcohol react. The last one is the director of the Brewery and Drinking Association. He says to Ullern Avis now last Thursday: ‘Policy of ‘losing easily and easily’ donations is a serious failure. Many people who should never have a drop make a lot of money on unprofessional operations and overdrafting, and they are going on for years without anyone intervening, says the director of the Brewery and Drinking Association, Petter Nome. [[...]] He believes it is primarily the politicians who have to take responsibility for the negative developments in Oslo." What is the answer from the Oslo Right in this context, in the same article? Well, there you can read that Oslo Right is now going to program open hours – this is from the party that usually talks about the importance of knowledge and research. You can wonder why they're so keen on it when they're not going to use the knowledge you get, it's going to be research from SIRUS, from the police or experience from other countries. The 24-hour donation has been tried before. Reykjavik is a good example of this. The result was filling up the emergency room – increasing violence damage was therefore a consequence. Finland had the same experience when making alcohol more available. So the Right Party and the Progressive Party both want to make alcohol more available, and that across research, across the wishes of the police and across all the victims of that policy. There are also representatives from these parties who most often raise questions here in this Chamber about organised crime, at the latest in the autumn. What is certain is that the organized criminals have a need to money laundering their black money. Here, there is considerable experience to assume that the outdoor industry is an important piece. Nor, when it is not possible at this point to use the tools available to the city council to follow up their reputation, follow up the appropriations after they have been given, check how the activities are carried out, yes, then there is little or no credibility left when these parties are engaged in the use of resources, additional resources or the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1273	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1276	Night until May 1, 1976, the "Deep Sea Driller" rig appeared outside Fedje in Hordaland, and six people died. Many call this the forgotten accident, and it has been almost erased from Norwegian oil history. The many questions about what really happened that night, unfortunately, have not yet been answered after so many years. Following various recordings, both from the undersigned and others, the Stortinget decided on 15 December 2004 to ask the government to review all aspects of the loss of the Deep Sea Driller rig. The Ministry of Justice decided in March 2007 that the investigations in connection with the accident were to be conducted as a one-man investigation. The investigation, carried out by a former police officer, was handed over to the Ministry of Justice on 8 November 2007. According to a number of experts in the field, this was very deficient and became, among other things, characterised as light and immature. There were also questions about investigators at all who had knowledge of modern accident investigation principles. Survivors and survivors after the accident were also not satisfied with the so-called investigation, which helped to shed light on the many questions they had. Despite this very poor investigation, and despite the fact that there were still a number of unanswered questions about the accident, the Ministry of Justice considered itself finished reviewing all aspects of this tragic accident. And despite repeated enquiries, the Department has also failed to assess the possible moral responsibility of the authorities towards survivors and the survivors after the loss. Against this background, the Progress Party and the Right are promoting a proposal today asking the Government to review all aspects of the loss of the Deep Sea Driller rig, explaining both causes and responsibilities and clarifying any responsibility of the authorities towards survivors and survivors. We can't give back health to the survivors who are struggling with post-effects. We can't give them back their loved ones either. However, we have the opportunity today to ensure that all sides of this matter are illuminated, so that we can finally set the finish line. I would therefore strongly appeal to all parties to show compassion for the survivors and the survivors after the accident – and to support our proposal. After so many years of waiting, these had so absolutely deserved to be answered all the questions about this tragic accident, so that we could finally finish the matter in a dignified way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1287	The policy and the basic value of the Workers' Party is that all should have equal opportunities. I am therefore very pleased that we have an offensive and innovative Minister of Justice – and a comprehensive justice policy. The government’s focus on the context of those in prison living in, and the government’s belief that everyone should have equal opportunities, means that there is a strong focus on prevention and rehabilitation. It's joyous and necessary. The way into crime is often about very challenging growth conditions or major psychological pressures, which have led many to drugs and/or crime in order to solve this. Through my growth and my work, I have met many people with prison experience. They're more like me than different from me. They have someone they're happy about, they have desires and dreams about a better future, they laugh, they cry, they get angry and happy about the same things that I do. Not least, they have parents, boyfriends – some have children – and are concerned about challenges in these situations, just like me. They have some common features: Many have early experience in raising family members’ crime and drug addiction. In order to prevent better the spread of prisoners in prisons is an important target group, including for criminal and justice policies in cooperation with other services, in particular the health services in prisons. The Councils of Conflict promote dialogue and understanding through their methodology. They have good effect, and I am pleased with the increased allocation to this area of 2.6 million. kr. I am very pleased that the government has granted almost 2.3 million. kr to non-governmental organisations and that EUR 1,15 million. kr of these are earmarked measures for children. Many people do an important job: Way Back, the Court and the Fangers Family Association are three good examples. It is important to see the children of prisoners at an early stage and to ensure that they are anchored in the measures necessary for the least possible continuation of the problematic life of the last generation, with drugs and crime. I expect – and believe – that the programmes in the now 13 settings also focus on relatives, especially children. The working party believes that everyone should have the opportunity to get up again. It's easy to say, but difficult to do. Penalties should work – for society and for individuals. For some of the most outpatient and drug addicts, punishment alone may seem to have little effect. The Stoltenberg Committee has raised a debate on how to give them a better life. This is also a debate involving the justice sector. We are constantly reading about problems with the location of transitional dwellings and dwellings for people with drug dependence. Terrors and threats are run in various ways, and the message is: Not here! The last example I've caught up with is in Eastfold. It's not enough with appropriations and beautiful words. It requires that we all take joint responsibility for the way we talk about criminals in public. They're all children of someone, and many have children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1304	Secure communities are a very important part of the Right’s policy. That is why the police are also one of the budget winners in the Right's alternative budget. This contrasts in stark contrast with the government party's rights to the police. The government has provided a budget for several unemployed policemen. The police coverage is the same today as in 2005, with an average of 1.6 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. This is far from the point of view. In Oslo, the police coverage is higher, but many police districts have a police coverage that is significantly lower than this. As far down as 1 policeman per 1 000 inhabitants is the fasitite of some places. In my homelands, this has a huge impact. There may be a long way between the towns, and then there will be even more between each policeman. This means that the police's ability and ability to prevent and investigate crime is getting worse. In Sogn and Fjordane, many local Länsmann offices are good partners with other public agencies and voluntary organisations working with safe communities in municipalities, and they play an important role in this work. The Police Council has become an important body for coordinating prevention efforts in the local environment. Around the country, police and community leaders are concerned about the resource situation in the police. We fear that next year's use of funds for ICT upgrade will replace operational police work. Closeness to the police reduces crime and makes prevention more effective and targeted. When the police are not there, this creates a space of promise in society. This does not accept Right. Therefore, Right also allows more money for the police than the government adds. Right is in favour of setting up rescue operations at sea — RITS — at seven fire services in the municipalities along the Norwegian coast. The standby includes a special force from each fire service primarily intended to assist in the rescue of life in cases where an accident is of such magnitude that the ship's own crew is unable to handle this property. This is an important special service within the marine rescue services. We argued that this service has sufficient resources to cover the costs of a defence operation. The rescue helicopter base in Florø is also an important resource for security along the west coast. Unfortunately, the government is still only adding up to have a Florø exposure and not a fully-fledged base for rescue helicopters. These are a lot of people who are disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1326	The threat of terrorism shall not be underestimated on Norwegian or European soils. However, it is important to have the focus where it should be. People must and must not be stigmatized. Many Muslims around Europe feel that being a Muslim means being regarded as an aberrant and a terrorist. It's a sad and dangerous trend. An example is the quotation from a schoolbook for 5th graders in Denmark that: ‘Although not all Muslims are terrorists, all terrorists are Muslims’. The quotation is from a Muslim, but it is uncommented in the book. This is how negative attitudes are created against European Muslims who are loyal to the societies in which they are part. The report The European Union Trend Report 2010, published by Europol, reads as follows: ‘Islamic terrorism is still considered to be the greatest danger in most Member States.’ And what are the facts? Well, the same report states that 294 terrorist attacks in the EU were carried out or attempted in 2009. Of these, 237 were carried out, or tried, by the separatists in Spain and France. The left radical was behind 40. How many terrorist acts did Muslims back in the EU in 2009? The report states that ‘there was only one Islamist terrorist action in the EU, in Italy in 2009’. Of course, that's one too much. But the point here is the perspectives and the proportions. An excessive and negative focus on Muslims increases the distance and loyalty of Muslim youth to their own country. They're young people like all the other peers. They want respect for themselves and their identity. They're young when they're looking for age. They need security and confirmation, not rejection and stamping as deviating. I am proud that my government takes this seriously. We're going to secure all the young people who are in vulnerable age and situation. Last week, the government presented an action plan of 30 good and committed actions to prevent radicalisation among young people. Many of these measures are already under way. And then we're going to start the second one. We don't have a single youth to lose, either to right-wing or left-wing radicalism or Islamist radicalism. For SV, this action plan is also a value document.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1347	The lot of the Progress Party did not deny it. What remains after this debate is that the law-order-party thinks little in the fight against crime. In my reply to Per Sandberg's representative, I mentioned several important areas on which this party is making a big cut. The answers were persuasive. In addition, I can mention: a phase-out of the UP, 24 hours a day’s alcohol circulation and the sale of alcohol at gas stations, a reduction in the use of electronic accumulators, a refusal to the Data Storage Directive, etc. What's interesting in this setting is that the Progress Party and the Right have many common comments and suggestions. We saw the same thing between 2001 and 2005. There was no happiness in the justice sector. Then it was tax havens that were the great political priority. I need to document this with sections from the book to former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum, who was also the representative of Håheim. Under the heading ‘The fight for money’: ‘Hearing the old profile of a ‘law and order’ party thus did not result in immediate fresh money for the justice sector. The priorities of the Minister of Finance of the Right were in stark contrast to what the party’s representatives in the Judicial Committee expressed.’.» And on the other hand, ‘Right – with the Minister of Finance, the majority of the government and a former head of the Justice Committee around the table, choosing creative performance suggestions rather than giving fresh money to strengthen law and order. It is for thought, all the time when the Right in opposition had created significant expectations for what the lot would achieve in the justice field if it was in government.» Rightly, both the Progress Party and the Right increase their budgetary frameworks to include: Police. But this is in opposition. The book of former Minister of Justice Dørum clearly states that the willingness to give priority to this sector is more difficult for these parties when they have to take responsibility. There will be a great paradox in many ways when the Right flags are so high that the police coverage is the same today as in 2005. What's a fact is that the police and relief services have had a total of 1,637 years' work since 2005. In addition, they come about 230 years as a result of a new special job destination agreement. This is also linked to educational capacity. When the representative Oktay Dahl's party was in government, the student recording was 240 in 2003. Now the recording is 720 aspirins.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1377	The reason why I take the word is because I have to answer a couple of previous posts. The first one I want to get hold of is the representative Breen. He held a very good and very important article about alcohol and the situation in this city. The interesting thing is that both the Minister of Justice and others from the Labour Party have been concerned about how important it is to bring down the shift times. In the speech debate that is often in the Justice Committee, about how many police officers one actually has, and everyone wants to have more, it is interesting to see how many people and policemen would have been released if one could have done something with all the elected members attached to alcohol. That's why I came up with history from the time when smokelove was to be introduced, when Højbrätten, who was Minister of Health, was told that it was only 30 pst. as supported by the introduction of smokenova. Then the Højbråten said that the Christian People's Party had been very happy with 30 pst, and therefore he just wanted to run on. Now maybe the Worker's Party is used to 30 pst. connection and wouldn't look at it like a big one says. But the fact is that most people want shorter give-time because they want a safer everyday life and a safer trip in town to have fun. The other thing I want to address is the introduction of the Data Storage Directive, which the representative Lillehovde started to talk about. It's always a dangerous topic to raise, but I have to say that when it's lifted in such a simple way and is just presented as if it's the solution to all the challenges, I have to make some points. The Data Storage Directive should be introduced because of organised crime. Then my starting point was that organized criminals are relatively up-to-date – at least they should be. There's something as simple as communicating with each other. If you are relatively up-to-date, you should be able to find crumbs in the Data Storage Directive. It is as simple as I can take my phone and use Facebook and send messages, or I can take my mobile phone and use Skype and call without any requirement to store it. I can communicate as much as I want, and criminals can communicate as much as they want. You could do the same on Gmail or Hotmail etc. What's this really about? Well, it's a massive storage of data. In 2009, we sent 7 billion text messages. We called three hours every week on average. We downloaded the data in 2009 in two days, so it was the same as the entire data set in 2003. Information about who you sent to or where you were when you called or sent messages etc. will be saved. It applies to mobile phones, PCs, iPads, electronic articles, cars, etc. There's going to be more. Developments will only continue. Finally, I just have to say that we throw the privacy on the boat and go away from the principle that you are innocent until the contrary is proven, just because it is claimed that this is what should be the solution. And it isn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1388	Justice policy is an important part of providing people with security in everyday life. In the field of justice policy, I want to strike a blow for the open soning. Those persons who have been shown such confidence at the end of their detention that they can be given open shelter should be given it much more and should be given it in the form of more meaningful work. I hope that the Minister of Justice can take a lot of credit for changing a culture where leisure life and theoretical training are slowed down – I would say so strongly – to the benefit of just practical work in which these people are interested. By means of more practical work, one will show that a manager of a trade, gets maritime education through it and also gets respect from work, from workmates and friends, so that through it a person can build a new life situation. I hope that it will be a priority task for the Minister of Justice in the future to strike a stronger blow to practical work. There are many people who are subjected to detention who have a great desire to go in that direction. The second point is the right to change the Earth. In December 2003, a unanimous decision was taken by an important judicial decision, namely that a specific area of the court should be taken care of by a special court, the right to change the land, which is considered equivalent to that of the courts. It's not yet out in life. I am therefore very pleased with what is in the position of a unanimous committee, namely that there must now be an increased focus on the situation in which the right to land change is situated. It carries out an important job both in the city and in the country. Perhaps many in the cities are not aware of what is happening in the infrastructure of the right to land change, in what is called urban land change, and perhaps many are not aware of the difficult recruitment situation of the Court of Justice in obtaining competent and responsible land change judges. The court administration is not getting enough qualified applicants, and it now needs to focus more on this. That's exactly what the Soria Moria statement says. Therefore, follow-up to the 2003 decision is important. The administration of the Court of Justice requests that judges be given equal status whether they are bound by the right to change the place of residence or the jurisdiction of the courts, and there must be equal conditions of pay and employment. I hope that the government can now cut through at this point and make sure that there are realities at the next processing, so that we do not take that matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1401	I will first be allowed to pay tribute to the representative Roppstad for a fantastic short article with so much content – correct content – on the Data Storage Directive. I totally agree. If this is synonymous with the government wanting to introduce the data storage directive being tested, that it is as simple as the representative Lillehovde said, I am even more frightened than what I am initially. I didn't think I'd say anything about the data storage directive, but if that's the majority of the people, if that's what Lillehove claims, then I think the government would suggest putting it to a referendum, and then we'll see the result after that. It is therefore the case that the Data Storage Directive is now being evaluated. I think the government could at least wait for it. But now the debate is on the right track. I thought I would go up here and brag by the representative Bohemian, who made a fantastic, long post without saying a critical word about any other party. But then came Oppebøen Hansen and Håheim, and then it was the Progress Party. So much lies and approximates that these representatives come with! There will be so much from the representative Håheim that she loses her script – so many approximates came. I can take them piece by piece and split. So it's not like the representative Akhtar Chaudhry said that we want to remove electronic compensation. The amount is 10 million. kr – we reverse what is there. We have an alcohol policy in the Advance Party, as opposed to those that have steered up to now, because we see the result of a wrong alcohol policy. All the representatives who have been on the pulpit and who have been critical of alcohol policy today have been on the basis of the results that are there today. This government, together with the Bondevik II government, is those who have opened up more access to alcohol, by opening up more sales, etc., not the Advance Party. It is also wrong that the Advance Party is opposed to free homework. The progress party agrees with the government, and we have put in money for free homework, as opposed to what Chaudhry says. The fact that we disagree with the law, and disagree with what class stage it is going to start, is a completely different matter. There's a whole lot of such approximations coming from the government parties. Some try to establish that the relapse rate was reduced. Yes, but not in relation to what kind of atonement. It's exactly the same rate of relapse if you have zones in freedom, electronic atoning or sitting in an institution. I say as the Minister of Justice said in his speech: perhaps the debate deserves a different content. For what comes out of the position now is that one defends his policy in a thick and thin manner, which unfortunately has been lacking. You don't end up thinking about any areas at all. It's just more of the same -- more of the medicine that unfortunately failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1414	For the Workers' Party, it has always been important to use the whole country. For those who choose to live in the districts, it is essential that we have a district friendly policy. In this way, providing work for all, good childcare and school services and health and care services, is important. Security is naturally as important to those who live in the district as it is to those who live in the cities. Then the availability of the police is very important. Therefore, a decentralised police structure with lumbarians' offices outside the municipalities is very important to us in the Workers' Party. I have registered that the Right is busy with the local police. That's good. I still have a question I want to ask to the party, which is what they put in the term near-police. We all know that the Right also calls for a large-scale merger of municipalities in our country. In my home country, for example, More and Romesdal, prominent Right-Tops have been called for our county to reduce the number of municipalities from 36 to 4 to 5 pieces. I fear that such a drastic merger of the municipalities will lead to fewer Länsmannskontoret, as I would assume that it would be inappropriate to have more Länsmanns in one municipality. I would like to ask the Right if large municipal mergers in their view will lead to fewer loners and fewer loner offices. Then I would like to stay a little at the Progress Party, which calls for today's 27 police districts to be reduced to 5-10. It's an honest thing. This will, of course, mean a number of fewer police officers. Today, we have 380 offices, i.e. Länsmann's offices and police stations. Should these be divided by e.g. five police officers will mean that each police officer will be given on average responsibility for more than 70 posts. Crime-fighting activities are largely carried out at the county offices and police stations. Co-ordination of this important work at over 70 posts will be very demanding, no matter how competent police officers we have. With only 5 to 10 police districts in Norway, I would assume that there will be an enormous pressure to join the Länsmannskontoret. I would therefore like to ask the Progress Party how they perceive that the Länsmann Office structure should be if it is implemented to reduce the number of police districts to 5-10. With the large structural grips Right and Advance Party alerts, I am seriously concerned about the future of the local police, at least if the right parties come into government. The citizens of the districts have the same right to security in everyday life as the inhabitants of central districts. Then the proximity of the janitorial offices is very important. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the SV and the Central Party will maintain a decentralised police structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1429	The representative Stine Renate Håheim spoke about cowboy and Ville West states about the success of the Progress Party – this is obvious because the Progress Party wants to extend the speed limit on the motorways from 100 km/h to 110 and 120 on some sections. Then I would like to ask back: Does the representative of Håheim believe that politicians and road authorities in Sweden and Denmark want to kill their own citizens, or do they do so because they think it makes sense to have higher speed limits on motorways with standards that defend both 120 and 130 km/h? In fact, I think it is much more cowboy and wants to west of government policy in the field of justice. In my county, one of the prisons has an unsafe device when you get to prison. You can bring with you a calashnikov, a gun or another weapon if you want, without being stopped, because the government doesn't want to grant $6 million. kr to solve the problem of this safety risk. I think it's far more cowboy and want to west over it when the government is fully aware of the situation and don't want to do anything about it. In fact, I think we're securing our prisons by being safe and not opening up the opportunities for criminals who want to get into these prisons. In addition, serious violence, as one sees as an example in Varden, continues to be perpetrated about a woman who was killed — gross violence. The case was closed because the police had no resources. This is not an exceptional case. There are several of them. That's wild states for me, and that's what I want to do something about. That is why we also propose a strong strengthening of police resources to ensure that police are present in the streets. Another example is that the operating centre has to go out to people and complain that you can't give them the services and the help they need. It's wild west to me, and that's what the Progress Party is proposing to do in its alternative state budget, not if you can have 120 or 110 km/h of speed limit on road sections with road standards that are sized for 120 and 130 km/h. Then I just have to say that I come from the same state as the representative Upbeøen Hansen, but I'm really wondering if we really come from the same state, and whether he's talking to those who are on the floor, and those who are out doing active service in the police. Because they have a completely different reality from what I hear from Uppebøen Hansen and other representatives from the government parties. So I really hope that the government parties will return to the states and get to know the truth, and perhaps take with them the reality of those who are on the floor, and those who are out there doing active service, to ensure legal certainty and to ensure the security of the inhabitants of the counties around.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1440	The President is pleased that we live in Norway and not in the Ville West, and asks the representatives to be a little careful with the use of images.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1443	It might have been interesting to live in the Ville West. My post should not go back so far in time. I think there has been an interesting debate today, and that justice policy is important for society and the individual has actually come to a pretty good conclusion in this debate. What I intend to use my post to say something about is something that has happened a long time ago, but that matters today. Then I ask the Minister of Justice to follow along, because I want to give him some challenges at the end. We have tabled a proposal today, proposal No. 16, that the State shall bear the bill for the costs incurred by the owner of a brew in Tromsø by removing grenades from the days of the war. It is possible that there is no big deal, but it is at least an important matter, and it is an important matter for the owner who is being affected here. There has been a long tradition in Norway that the state has removed explosives from the war and covered the costs around it. What's happening in this case is that the police officer in Tromsø demands that the bridge standing there above the grenades buried in the ground from the days of the war be demolished. There's nothing wrong with it, because it's an explosion hazard. What's happening is that the bridge is being torn down, and that means great costs for the owner. One is that the value of the bridge is powdered, torn away, the other is that you miss rental income, and the third is that you have to plan the area. In other words, there has been a huge cost for one owner. And so it's the state that has done this. It opens up a lot of questions. One question is whether the Council of State may say a little about the dialogue that has been between the owner and the Council of State, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, on this specific matter. For this is not a matter for the defense, because the defense has removed the grenades without cost, for which the defense has tradition. But it's about the expenses the owner has incurred by the police chief in Tromsø, in other words the Ministry of Justice. I will also challenge the Council of State at the very end: what would the Council of State do if his house were demolished by the state, and the Council of State put back with the mortgage and the bill for the demolition? Does the Council of State consider that it is appropriate to deal with it, or should the State, which has charged that owner high costs, cover the costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1458	The representative of Breen was concerned that the opposition has the most focus on granting money to the police and operating ‘reactive’ schemes, and that only the police are going to solve the crime challenges. No, we're definitely followers of proactive attitudes. We would like, among other things: replacing the government, and that should be said about it. The representative Lillehovde from Hedmark argued strongly for the introduction of the DLD, the Data Storage Directive, and that it was the only salvaging thing for the police to get the tools they needed to solve their mission. Now I notice that part of the argument about the Data Storage Directive is changing. Among other things, the Council of State has said that the information contained in the Data Storage Directive, including: can be used to check people out of things. That's correct, but if we're going to change the principle that one is innocent until the opposite is proven, that one is guilty, that one is checked out of the case, I have problems with legal certainty. With the Data Storage Directive, on average, every Norwegian will have about one. 1200 messages stored in one year. Then you know who you sent a message to, when you sent it, where you sent it, and what you sent it. It is worrying, and no one is going to come and tell me that the information that remains in such a repository cannot be abused. We can see that, among other things. with the Whitewashing Act, where information was provided to, inter alia: Tax Directorate and Nav, etc. etc. It was said that the Data Storage Directive should be used to combat terrorism and organised crime. So the argument has changed to that there should also be other serious crime. And now more and more people are talking about illegal file sharing. Illegal file sharing as a serious criminal act – then I start to worry. One of the challenges now is that we do not know what we are adopting with the Data Storage Directive. If we now adopt a data storage directive as it exists today, the EU will be able to make changes to the directive in a year or two to make it even more sensitive to privacy. I would be surprised if, in the light of the small changes that the European Union is making, we would sit on our backs and refuse to adopt the directive. So I think we should wait until the evaluation that the EU is now carrying out is available, and then take a new debate on the Data Storage Directive when we have facts on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1469	The representatives Håheim and Oppebøen Hansen are in the literary corner today and refer to former government council Dørum and his descriptions. The right refers to the decision of the Storting and the treatment of the previous budget by the Storting. In contrast to what those representatives quote, the story of Stortinget shows that in nine of the last ten years, the Right has proposed more money to the police than the Workers' Party. In the tenth year, the Right Party and the Labour Party cooperated on the police and judicial budget. In my opinion, this is an attempt to remove the attention from the fact that there is a standstill in police coverage during this government. The debate has also brought forward views on the Data Storage Directive. It is good to debate it. From the Right, we want to emphasise that we have great respect for the complexity of that question. We have a party process where we take the time we need to go in and look more closely at this fundamental question. We believe that that time is a good investment, in order to achieve the best possible result, in balancing the interests of privacy on the one hand and combating crime on the other. For us, this is not a matter of hasty and short-term solutions. This is what it is necessary to look at carefully, and it does the right. Then it's the representative Torve, from the Workers' Party, who is calling for the Right's view on municipal mergers and police structures, to put it this way. First of all, I think it is surprising that this issue comes from the Workers' Party, which runs the Ministry of Justice, and which does not even send the theme of police structure and performance reform into consultation outside the police. It is a theme that, in the Right's view, should have been much broader. We are in favour of larger and more robust municipalities, that is correct, but the representative Torve can look at the debate in this room two weeks ago. Then the Right presented its Document 8 on the environmental model, which describes in detail the importance of the Right to have an bystander, visible police in the neighbourhood. So this has been presented to the Right, but unfortunately it was voted down by the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1481	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1484	One minute to try to respond to the challenges of the Progress Party’s cut in financial supervision, customs duties and tax revenues: This is the proof that you can't think about it again. I should just like to say briefly that the Progress Party in its alternative state budget considers that there is a certain potential for efficiency improvement. We are proposing a reduction in customs duties where we are raising customs frontiers. We have a flat tax system. We have a proposal in our alternative state budget that brings less form fields, less bureaucracy. Then there should also be 5 pst within the Financial Supervisory Authority. potential for efficiency, or 5 pst. within the tariff quota for improving efficiency. In terms of the tax rate, it's true that we're cutting 645 million. NOK in an establishment that has NOK 950 at its disposal for each and every resident in this country. Yes, we believe that there are opportunities to think new, and that these agencies will concentrate on crime and not on the innocent in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1491	One might wonder so much in such a debate. For example, I am wondering about the involvement of the opposition of 70-80 state officials – newly educated policemen – while I see the lack of commitment of the thousands who will go out to unemployment when implementing the other cut proposals. It's a dimension that for me is a little bit funny. Then I'm also wondering, last but not least, the committee leader himself, who is talking about the potential for a 5 pst efficiency improvement. in relatively small establishments, while there is no such link at all within the police authorities. The police, as I referred to in my first post, have had a growth in percent far above the other supervision – a nominal growth of over 100 pst. from 2000 to now in the Oslo police force, e.g. Why should one not then be able to streamline there is a question for the parties that are streamlining in all other areas. The reason I took the floor is to the extent that I have noticed that when the opposition has taken the floor and talked about alcohol policy, they have avoided the reality of my speech, namely the situation description given by the Oslo Police to the City Council here in the city regarding the policy that has been pursued, where many new victims are created for an extremely liberal policy, and where it is easy to get the grant. Then you say it should be easy to lose it, but you don't lose it. As a licensing authority, we do not follow up appropriations in a good enough way, which is well described in a letter from the Oslo police, and also well described by the brewery and beverage industry itself. So here one has been able to draw on both sides on a question where both the one promoting alcohol use and the one skeptical disagree with the policy being pursued. There's not one reasoning around it from the opposition here in the hall! There is really a lot to do both in terms of victims’ problems and in terms of resource use in the police. Not one reflection! It is quite encouraging, especially given that this is a field in which so much research has been done, there is so much experience from other countries, and it is so well-known politically what consequences it has. And then it's not one reflection – it's just 150-200 million. kr more to solve the problem. If that is the answer from the Right and the Advance Party if they come into government, then the future victims of this policy are in a bad state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1502	I can reassure Stortinget that I will not use any pictures in this post. I am recording that representatives from the Progress Party believe that I was a bit approximate in my post on the UP. However, when prominent representatives from the Progress Party speak out in the media, I choose to take it seriously. If that's how the Progress Party has changed, that's the joyous news. But I take it seriously when party leader Siv Jensen says to the evening post last year that the UP will stop standing with its meters. I take it seriously when the representative Per Sandberg says to the NRK Evening News in 2008 that he thinks we could use UP's resources in a completely different way. I cannot understand it in any other way than that the number of checks and the visibility of the UP on Norwegian roads should be drastically reduced. We know that speed and per mille are two important factors that are often present when traffic accidents occur on Norwegian roads. Speed and per thousand are also UP's most important job, and UP is doing an important job to prevent traffic accidents. In fact, speed is a contributing cause of half of the fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. It's serious, and then I don't think the solution is to raise the speed limits and not to serve alcohol in the country's gas stations, which have also been mentioned in the media. But nothing is better than whether the representatives of the Progress Party can say here that this is the current policy. It would be a good day for road safety. Then I record that, in the course of the debate, there has not yet been a very good response on how the proposed cut to tax, financial supervision and customs duties should lead to less crime. The Justice Committee was recently visiting Kristiansand, among others. the important job the customs office is doing in terms of both organised crime and drug crime. But it's obvious that in the areas where the Progress Party cuts, we get better results from the cuts, while in the areas where they grant more money, it's often the only solution to all the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1511	We have at least been told today that the Right wants to move forward in the escalation of the number of police officers by 2000 more by 2015 – faster than the government. But then I want to thank the Workers' Party for having very good reading skills, because it's actually true that there's a typographical error on page 28. There shall be a comma and a word called ‘faster’ on page 28, so that the comment corresponds to what is on page 12. I think you would have understood that if you had also heard the posts. But it's very nice that the debate is mostly about the Right and the Opposition budget. The police escalation we proposed was described by the State Secretary when we launched it in June, like opening doors, because this was already being done. Today it is completely impossible to get to. That criticism from the government councils and parties is therefore a little difficult to take seriously. But I understand that the focus is being shifted from those who do not want to compensate for ICT and have their own case on this in the Stortinget, who will not focus on senior measures, who do not have clear ideas about how to better use civil servants, who do not give priority to volunteering, who do not give priority to psychiatry and drugs, who do not give priority to child protection, and who do not now ensure security in the Skien prison by a lock. And in the case of the representative Breen, who was concerned about alcohol and doing something about what you can do about in the municipalities: the council has known this for ten years. The Council of State has shown this for at least five years, that there is so much research here that it's just to get changes in laws and to reduce the turnout times. And once you get the chance to use your majority, you don't. Then I think you should go a little bit quieter in the doors when it comes to attacking either the Advance Party or the Right for an indefinable alcohol policy. If someone has an indefinable alcohol policy, it is actually the majority who are unable to use the majority of what the council has as one of their heart children. So to the story that the representative, Werp, was in on. I stand here with ten or eleven settings from 2000 to now. It shows that no one from the government parties had a single proposal for more places at the Police College. That shows that the Right, in over 90 pst. of the cases, proposed more money to the police than any of the current government parties. And as far as Dørum's quotes are concerned, I get to say that when you're so concerned about the progress party in the media from the representative of Håheim, it's a good thing that when you're on the Spokesman's Chair, you're so precise that you've read the whole book to Dørum. I got a text message from Dørum now saying that I should read his entire book, because Dørum got that money. And that budget in 2005 was described as the largest budget in the decade, to which the police actually refer sometimes to today. So you might be able to read whole books, not just quotes. Municipal structure: Yes, we should get far fewer to prevent better, to ensure better child protection and to ensure better interaction between municipalities and the police. There I think maybe the representative Torve has a little talk to his own party colleagues who agree with Right, about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1524	The representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1527	The representative Per Sandberg is very busy with what he claims to be ‘untruths’ and what is truth. And when he claims that representatives from the government parties are talking about ‘untruths’, he notes that the Progress Party has the truth. Economic crime and tax fraud are intertwined. The Tax Agency, the Customs and Fees Directorate and the Financial Supervisory Board are important travel agents in the fight against financial crime and tax evasion. When the representative Sandberg claims to think again, I would say that the idea behind the new thing comes out very poorly in this setting, and there is absolutely no logic in the proposed Progress Party. One should strengthen the work, and not weaken the work. So to the representative Hoksrud: I can confirm to the representative Hoksrud that I have very good contact with the foot people in Telemark. Locks in prison – that’s a good move, but if you go and ask them to join the ski prison, I’m not sure if they say that it’s what they’re going to prioritize if they get 6 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1536	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1539	The representative of Håheim was concerned that the Progress Party wants to shut down the UP in its present form. I would just like to point out that the Council of State itself boasts that the UP is now taking more and more and is active against organized crime. That was exactly what the Progress Party wanted. That's exactly what we wanted, that the resources of the UP should go more towards what has to do with organized crime instead of the UP being on every street corner with lasers and speed indicators. Actually, others can do that. There are other agencies that can also do, possibly with the assistance of the police. There is nothing wrong with the fact that the Car Authority can be responsible for speed checks and per-million checks with the assistance of the police rather than for two to three police units to carry out the checks each time. The car inspection can do those tasks with the assistance of the police. It's possible!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1549	All of them first: I still think there has been a good debate, but there are a few points I would like to raise that I do not think can stay standing after such a thorough round of justice policy. Then I would say that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum's description in the book, quoted from this pulpit, I think I'm very clear and clear, and he writes well, and I think he's quite right. I rarely defend the Progress Party, but I think that what happened to the 2005 budget may also have to some extent be attributed to the activities of the Progress Party. It became a better budget. I do not think it can be left to stand after this debate that the Right has proposed to André Oktay Dahl, both in the press and here, that the police crew should be increased by 2 000 more police officers by 2015 without prescribing how to do so. If we assume that the Right's efforts and that we make sure that no one ends and that all high school police students get a job, we still have to be admitted to the high school with over 1,000 students a year until 2012, because it takes three years to train them. I have to say, I think it is quite special that, after going so offensively out all summer – and we met the alternative budget from the Right with great tension – already at the first round, what is the main element in getting more policemen to train more policemen. So how are you going to get 2,000 more when you choose not to train more than the other parts of the Stortinget – and then I think of everyone, even the Advance Party – going ahead? I don't think you should come from here to say it like this. Then there is a long way between life and learning. If we're going to get 2,000 extras by 2015, no matter how we calculate, we're going to have a significantly larger recording from 2011. If not, 2012 will be a completely impossible year for the Police College. So at my discretion, we still have to ask how to do that. I note that this debate has not taken place again. Then there's also reason to point out what several representatives have been into, everything is related to everything. The significant cuts that are now being proposed in the Skattenetaten and the Tolletaten on the part of the Progress Party have a major impact on the fight against crime. Cutting close to half a billion dollars for the Foreign Affairs Directorate would mean that we were not dealt with asylum applications more quickly. We have that as ambition, but will remain lying down. We would have a massive influx of asylum seekers who would speculate for a long period of time. We know that to some extent it would also affect the effect of being able to prevent criminal acts in these environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1565	Before the next speaker receives the floor, the President will state that the called alternate of the Nordland County, Kari Storstrand, has now taken its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1571	The representative of Håheim went away from talking about both cowboy and Ville West states, and that might be good. But she did not go on the speed limits and the problem around it, and was very concerned about that at 50 pst. of the accidents, the speed is a contributing cause. Yes, there are also many other factors that contribute to the occurrence of fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. Among other things, we have two reports have now been received which clearly conclude that the road is actually one of the main causes of the accidents. To the representative of Håheim, who is very busy with this 110 km/h and 120 km/h: It is thus that Safety Traffic in Østfold, which I believe is one of the organisations that is at least very concerned with road safety, believes that it is fully justified for new E6 from Østfold to Oslo to have a speed limit of 120 km/h, and I experienced in the Westfold police district that former traffic controller there said that it is also perfectly sound to have a speed limit of 120 km/h on new E18 in the north Westfold. So it's completely possible, without these horror scenarios that I feel some representatives from the government parties are trying to push forward, to increase the speed limit on our best roads. To the representative of Breen: I come from a municipality where his party was involved in making sure to reduce the turnout time in 2009. In fact, the consequence was that there were more cases of violence in the summer than in the summer before, where there were extended opening hours. A lot of the police on the grassroots are very concerned that they don't want to run around the afterplay all day and use their resources that way. They actually think it might make more sense that you have people out there and have it in controlled and proper forms. So I'm not sure that so much of the argument for Breen necessarily keeps all the water. You've looked at some of the places you've done the grips that the government wants to do, that they haven't had the effect you wanted. So to Uppebøen Hansen: I still believe that Uppebøen Hansen lives in a different world than that both I and what I experience at least that policemen at grassroots in Grenland do – or in Telemark for that matter. It was decided to merge two loner offices. What's the result? Well, you have about as little resources as you had in one place before the merger. So that means there's going to be people out there to do active service. In Grenland, almost half of the resources you had in the past when you had your own Pors Foundation Police Chamber and a Skien Police Chamber. That means that the people who are going to be out and do active service and take care to be with and prevent, make sure to take criminals, have no resources to do so. And when we know that cars are even repainted to look pretty and proper, I think we're on completely wild roads. That's what we've been talking about in this debate, and I feel that the government parties are on a completely different track than the realities that you're experiencing out there among the servants who are going to do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1582	Before the representative André Oktay Dahl gets the floor, the President will also express some sympathy for the policemen who have to travel around the post-game 24 hours a day. It was all malapropos to the next speaker, André Oktay Dahl. The representative, André Oktay Dahl, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1587	When the president says it that way, I feel like there was an undertone there, so I'm not quite sure. I don't know if it's parliamentary language to say that, but some people here read the Bible as – I kept saying – Gelius, or someone else I don't want to mention the name of. But I have to say, Doorum was very clear in his book, he, he said he got what he wanted. And if it's a problem that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the rest of the bourgeois side agree on the police budgets, that it becomes more to the police, the concerns are gone, because that's what you're so afraid of. But then, at least once and for all, we have decided that a new bourgeois government will take care of the police budgets of the time, which are going to take the people's security seriously. In terms of figures, the Council of State has not said one word about the fact that the police coverage has stood at 1.6 since 2005, standing completely silent, not one word about the increase in pay queues. The only thing the Council of State has done is to call for opposition responses, how the opposition should provide better police coverage and deal with crime problems. It's about as interesting as the Council of State hasn't said one word about alcohol for the first time in the entire debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1596	In my first speech, I asked the Minister of Justice to comment on a proposal by the Progress Party on this matter, namely proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox Again I challenge the Council of State, as he gave no answer in his first post. The point of the proposal is that an owner of a brew in Tromsø has been torn to pieces like a demand from police officer Truls Fyhn. The reason was fairly simple: there were a lot of grenades from World War II under that bridge. Because of the explosion/fire risk, the police chief demanded that this jetty be demolished. The bridge was demolished, and the grenades were removed by the Defense. The defense of course removed – as a good tradition is in Defense – these grenades from the days of war for free. But what is the matter is that the owner has been robbed of a brew, with the loss of value it entails also in the case of lost rental income and the costs the owner has incurred in planning the area, approx. 7.3 million. kr according to the media. What is my challenge to the Council of State, and I hope the Council of State can answer, is first of all: what kind of dialogue has it been between the owner and the Ministry of Justice to cover these costs? Then I will also challenge the Council of State: If the Council of State had been demolished by the State, and he put back the mortgage and the bill for the demolition work, with any loss of rental income, without the state going to cover it, does he think it was a fair and fair way to be treated? I urge the Council of State to take the opportunity during this debate to go up and comment on the proposal we have made, and on the situation and what the owner of this bridge in Tromsø can expect in terms of compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1607	The representative Thomas Breen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1610	I have to reply to the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, that was not my words, that was the word I used by the Oslo police. I quoted the verbatim from a letter on eight pages to the City Council of Oslo on the rolling of an alcohol policy action plan, eight pages that are actually the slaughter of the City Council's policy. But if it doesn't last, I can refer to a documentary in Focus, in the NRK, too soon back, where it was one of the foot people, who then evidently has the ‘major voice’ of the representative of Hoksrud, who expressed himself in that documentary. He said he was very disappointed that he had to spend so much resources out there – this was an effort manager who was interviewed on the street – to deal with the excesses you saw in Oslo. In the end, I just want to quote -- maybe I don't get it. However, the letter shows that Section 1-7a of the Alcohol Act clearly imposes an obligation on the licensing authorities to follow up the appropriations they distribute, and that is not the case in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1617	First of all, with regard to the question of the Molund Bridge in Tromsø, I am aware that liability for it has not been recognised so far. The power of the public is, of course, to ensure the security of the inhabitants of this country, so that grenades and these kinds of legacy are removed. Now the question, as I understand it, is whether – at least possibly – the case can be brought before the courts, so that I think it is difficult to go further on it, on the liability of the specific case. But I have a lot of understanding that those affected by the kind of security measures feel like a burden. Let there be no doubt about it. With regard to the issue of police positions, which has been central to the debate, the representative André Oktay Dahl presents it as if I have not commented on how many police officers we have today per 1,000 inhabitants. I record significant challenges in increasing the number of police officers. That's the background for us choosing to increase the recording to the triple from when the Right set with government power. So that's our answer to this, and also that you give jobs to those who are educated. The challenge in the debate is that the Right takes another step, and says that you have to have another 2,000, without explaining how it should happen. I think you have to be able to answer that, instead of just asking counter questions. Our response to the police coverage is in the report ‘Police against 2020’, where we say that we should increase the recording to far more than what the Police Union recommended to us, that more than 700 should go to the Police College, and that we should increase the appropriations. That's our solution to 2020. And we have a stepping-up plan for this. What the answer is to get another 2,000, we haven't been told. That's why I'm still telling you my big surprise that when you were able to create a budget for the first time, you didn't do anything to the Police College, which was supposed to be the basis for achieving this goal. It must be allowed to point out in a debate like this, where this has been such a central issue. Finally, I would like to say that we have long discussed a balance in the criminal justice chain. It is a matter of concern if you now want to reduce home soning with electronic control, as the Progress Party proposes. So you want to reduce the capacity by 200 places, which can be viewed against what kind of capacity we're going to have in criminal custody. I think this is very important to bring with it to ensure the balance that we're all so concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1630	I want to thank the committee leader Sandberg for his contributions earlier today, where he said it was good that I spoke in my main post about my own policy and kept to it. I'm just going to have to comment on a few things that have been raised later in the debate. It was the representative of Kielland Asmyhr who took on the job to misunderstand – I would say – when he said that I, when I said that the development of crime had not exploded in recent years, did not take the crime we have seriously. Of course I do. And of course, it's just as serious for those affected, even though the total numbers don't increase. Today, new figures have come from the Statistical Central Bureau, which was published this morning. They say that we probably have to be more than 20 years back to find less crime than what we have today, overall. It is quite important to bear in mind that the overall picture of crime trends is also true when discussing justice policy. There is evidence that crime is increasing somewhat in drug matters and violence in close relationships, which I also had to deal with. And it refers to something that's important, which concerns the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, who I was in the line shift earlier today, that there are very big differences around the country. One example is Oslo. Although Oslo has one in ten inhabitants in the country, one in five reviews come here. There are 152 criminal relationships per 1 000 inhabitants – three times as many as in e.g. Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal. So there are big differences around the country. But, fortunately, crime has not increased in recent decades. There are a couple of other things that I would like to comment on in the end. One is that I do not think Right, a party that wants to appear to be serious, must think it is so strange that they must say that they have made a typographical error in the parts of the budget position in which they detail their option, and must delete that they should have 2,000 more than the crew report says. The representative, Mr. Werp, just invited us to study the Right-wing proposal in more detail. That's what we do when we ask what that means, and then how many people have to increase police training in 2012. I just notice that this question does not have the right answer throughout the debate. Whether it is more or less in relation to what the crew report implies, we will be up to date with it in 2014. What has to be done after that will be quite dramatic in 2012 with regard to the admission, whose right will come close to their goal, as it is in the budget. Of course, it's important to ask for an answer, because we need to know if someone has better ideas. One of the points of a budget debate must be that it is possible to justify its alternatives to the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1643	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see pages 1324 and 1330]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1659	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1675	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1691	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1700	The Government has put forward proposals for further securing the Trandum Foreign International in order to contribute to a better security. It has also been proposed to extend the capacity by 50 additional places. A unanimous Judicial Committee has gathered on this proposal. It's a very good suggestion, because over time there's been a lot of noise around the alien night at Trandum. There have been a number of headlines in the media about security around Trandum. There's been a lot of escapes from boarding school. I would also like to add that the Judicial Group of the Advance Party has for a while tried to make Trandum a visit without it being possible, much because of the security situation. I think it is agreed that in order to ensure the transport of those who have been refused asylum in Norway, we will try to get security around the reception at Trandum, so that we get peace around this place. For my part, I would like to add that I probably do not believe that the internationalisation at Trandum is a scheme that we are going to have in the long term. We need to see if we're going to have further protection of those who are going out, precisely because there are many of them who are hard criminals, and some of them are coming from prison as well. Therefore, I believe that the government should look into whether Ullersmo prisons can be used. There are opportunities for significant expansion of Ullersmo prisons, which are also nearby. In this context, it should be possible, within an already secured prison, to offer places for the transport of non-residents. I would also like to add that this proposition from the government involves a change from the revised budget earlier this year, by moving from the plans to create another unit outside the existing fence on Trandum, to an extension of the planned sites within the existing area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1713	First of all, I just have to say that I am pleased that there is an overall committee that joins this proposal. As the rapporteur also pointed out, there has been some noise related to the situation at Trandum. It's my deep hope that this will help to make the noise settle down. There is now a significant grip on Trandum, both in terms of security and capacity – and there is more here – and an effort has been made that, at my discretion, should have a good impact, which goes on the activity and content of those who are actually in. So I just want to say, since I have the word associated with Trandum, that during this year we've seen that despite the fact that you haven't got as much capacity on Trandum as we wanted, the number of forced returns has been very good, in the sense that the Foreign Affairs Department has managed to do its job to the highest degree. I believe that it is one of the most important instruments we have, both in terms of those who commit criminal offences, and also those who refuse to leave the country voluntarily after having been refused the asylum application. I am also pleased that the Storting later today is probably going to join the additional allocation of 3.5 million. kr already this year, which helps us to achieve very good numbers in terms of the number of people actually being returned. It's my hope that we can also make it to a greater extent on the voluntary returns. As of 28 November 2010, 4 309 people were transported out of Norway by coercion, which is actually a higher figure than what we laid down for this year, and also revised budget. There is good reason to believe that the target we have set for next year, of 4,600, will also be within reach, given that this is actually one of the important instruments we have to achieve more effective justice policies in this area, but also an effective foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1740	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1749	The acquisition and acquisition process of new rescue helicopters is a major issue. I want to commend the proposers for addressing this important issue, because it gives the Storting the opportunity to discuss the matter itself. At the same time, I want – and I'm pretty sure I do it on behalf of the entire Justice Committee – to actually pay tribute to those who work in the helicopter rescue service for the important and great job they do. So it's high time to replace the helicopters. They have been in service for many years. There is an absolute need for new, based on the estimated technical lifetime of the existing helicopters. There is an increasingly expensive maintenance of these machines as their lifetime increases, while at the same time we see the volume of work increasing. As I said, it is also important to spend time acquiring new helicopters. One thing is that there is a large investment in dollars and cents, but it is also about choosing the right technical solutions that allow you to solve the tasks as best as possible for those involved. That's why this is a complicated process, at the same time as it's urgent. And the Storting has discussed this matter several times in the past and over several years, and there is reason to point out that there is enough considerable impatience in this hall related to the process. As far as the Committee on Legal Affairs is concerned, it is my opinion as rapporteur of the case that there is a great deal of agreement on the need, on the description of the need, but we distinguish layers of conclusions. The parties to the Government are reassured by the government's assurances in the matter, and will therefore attach the whole matter and the proposal to the minutes. From the Progress Party and the Right, a strong desire is expressed for a forced process related to the fact that this is a necessary upgrade of both the machines themselves and the associated equipment, perhaps especially heat-seeking cameras. The opposition parties have then proposed the submission by the end of the current year of a final decision on both the existing and the new helicopter fleet. I refer to the proposal that the Right and the Advance Party have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1766	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1769	I agree with the rapporteur that this is a comprehensive matter. Initially, I would like to state that Norway has one of the world's best rescue services. This rescue service includes a combination of public and voluntary actors. The volunteers are largely dependent on a well-functioning state involvement and a rescue helicopter service that can move out at short notice to those in need of emergency assistance. The interaction between the public and the volunteers is the support of our rescue service. In the matter we are dealing with here today, we are facing a long-lasting renewal of our rescue helicopter fleet. Today's helicopters, the nearly 50-year-old Sea King, run overtime. There have been several requests for a start-up process for the acquisition, and I understand the impatience shown by both the rescue services staff, the volunteers in the rescue services and the Storting. On the other hand, this is a difficult investment. It is an investment in security for people at sea and to land for the next 30–50 years. It is therefore important to make the optimal choice based on the speed, range and capacity of helicopters. A lot of time has been spent on the acquisition process, and for a while it was in the cards that someone wanted to make use of an option agreement related to the Defense Negotiations on Helicopter Purchase. This track has been abandoned and in the current round there is now an open bidding round related to the procurement process selected. This opens up for more operators and more competition. It is also important in this process that we do not make specifications so special that we exclude some providers and eventually stay standing with only one current supplier. It could be a costly experiment. In its notes, the Progress Party critically adheres to the new requirements from the government to new rescue helicopters and indicates that the government ‘is now assuming that the helicopters shall only have a range of up to 150 nautical miles’. This is an incorrect understanding of the requirements. The requirements laid down are minimum requirements. The requirements are approximately 150 nautical miles — not from land but from any point on the baseline. This becomes quite different, and so the range far exceeds the distance to all installations on a Norwegian base with a good safety margin. As an example, this will mean that in the triangle between Bodø and Banak, the helicopters will have to be able to retrieve up to 20 people 270 nautical miles out into the sea. With regard to the comment of the Progress Party that the government is now proposing that military helicopters be used in the rescue service, this is a curious angle. Today's Sea King helicopters are militaryly certified, and it's the Defense that operates the helicopters. No decision has been made as to whether the new helicopters should be military or civilly certified, but for my part I do not see this as a major matter. The most important thing is that the new rescue helicopters become an addition to the safety of the rescue teams and the people. In general, the most important thing now is that we manage to make good and clean progress, and that we avoid further delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1784	The acquisition of new rescue helicopters for the Norwegian rescue service is, as has been said before, incredibly important. It is a service that enjoys great respect and that does phenomenal work along the Norwegian coast and on the continental shelf. Now when we're going to replace the old Sea King helicopters, it's actually high time. These helicopters start gradually to be out-of-date and end-of-date. Some of the challenges we have with these helicopters now are access to spare parts. Norway is soon the only country that uses Sea King helicopters in its service. Although, according to the Ministry, the producer has guaranteed that they will be able to deliver parts to the Norwegian Sea King helicopters, it may be said that when Norway becomes the only buyer of the parts, the price will also be then. When we also know that the helicopters are on the ground today – we actually only have about half of them operational, as the others have to stand on the ground at all times – it goes without saying that the challenges are getting big. The representative Lillehovde said in his statement that it is a big investment to acquire these helicopters. That's right, there's a big investment we're going to make. We will take into account a whole range of factors, such as: The representative Lillehöwde also said, as scope, speed and capacity. That's why it's incredibly important to select the right helicopter. The representative Lillehovde says that whether they are to be classified as civil or military is not an important matter. Well, it's actually a pretty important thing when it comes to just up to the north. The Norwegian rescue service enjoys great respect in all countries, and especially in our neighbours in the east, namely Russia. Their rescue services are important. They trust and trust the rescue service because it is a civil rescue service. Then it actually has a lot to say if these helicopters are classified as civil or military. If you now, for example: should select 91 helicopters – without telling me that it has been done – it is military intelligence helicopters that can and will be used in military missions and intelligence missions. When a helicopter like this is classified militarily, I'll say and believe that the Russians get a certain scepticism for that helicopter. Another matter that is equally important is scope and capacity. When the representative Lillehovde was in charge of it with 150 nautical miles and 20 emergency calls and so on, there is nothing the Progress Party says in its comments. It's HMS Chief Kjetil Karlsen in Industry Energy who says that, and who's very concerned that these helicopters should have a range, a capacity and a speed that allows them to be used across the Norwegian coast. What is also important is that the specification states that all requirements have been assessed on the basis of normal weather conditions. Normal weather? How many missions does the rescue service perform in normal weather conditions? And then I think about search and rescue missions – how many tasks are performed in normal weather? In fact, in my poor understanding, it's when it's bad weather, when it's actually weather that causes ships to fall off, that things are happening out on the sea. That's when the rescue services are going out. That's when the rescue department has to show what it's good for. This is when the rescue services are going to save lives – in bad weather when people have lost their lives. What happens in normal weather may not be really important. The capacity that these helicopters need to have must be a capacity that allows them to go out into that storm, to say it mildly, which we have along the entire Norwegian coastline. Then we can't pick a helicopter that goes on minimum requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1799	Once things are done, processes are completed and finished, people rarely ask how long it took. They'd rather ask who was behind these processes, whether things were done in a good way or in a bad way. Buying 15 to 20 new large helicopters for rescue services in Norway is such a big process. Let me say it right away: we should work fast. Today's helicopter fleet is worn out. It costs a lot to keep the old on duty, and not least those on board these helicopters are demanding that the equipment is good and modern. I would like to extend a great thanks to those who do a phenomenal service on behalf of the nation, and not least save lives. But once again, the process needs to be of high quality. This is about big money, and helicopters that are going to serve for a long time in the future. SV is therefore pleased that the procurement process is well under way, that a concept study has been carried out and that the first phase of quality assurance has been completed and design selection carried out. SV also agrees with the government that the concept selection based on a uniform fleet with an estimated 15-20 large helicopters and a base pattern equivalent to today's is continued in the next phase of the procurement process. In a good and tidy procurement process, the government adds that we will receive the first helicopters in 2017/2018. I am therefore satisfied with the progress as it is now being made, and I look forward to the government coming to Stortinget during 2011 with an overall decision-making basis for both the acquisition of new helicopters and the operation of today's rescue helicopters. The government will follow developments closely, and I understand and respect that if there is a need to inform the Storting about things that the Storting should be informed about, the government will do its duty to the Storting in an appropriate form in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1812	Although Sea King helicopters can provide the necessary services for even a few years, there are good reasons to have full pressure on getting new rescue helicopters. It is very important that we in Norway have up-to-date equipment and a competent and trained device that can save people in distress and limit the consequences of accidents and other undesirable events. It's important to keep the base pattern of the day, and I'm especially happy that the government has a 24-hour watch on all the bases. In the past, only the Sun had such readiness. In addition, rescue helicopters in the North West have been significantly improved, with a separate rescue helicopter base in Florø from 2009. These interventions have, of course, significantly reduced response time and improved service quality. As the plural refers to in the setting, the work of replacing today's Sea King fleet will be carried on through a dedicated project to obtain new rescue helicopters. The project is subject to the State quality assurance scheme for large investment projects. A quality decision-making basis will be provided to the Stortinget in 2011. Today’s Sea King fleet is in good operational condition and will cover Norway’s rescue helicopter needs until new helicopters are in place in 2020. But, as the majority point out, there is reason to be aware that it will lead to large resources to maintain the fleet until 2020, when the new helicopters are to be completed. Helicopters approach 40 years and naturally ask for a lot of jobs under tough conditions. The rescue service in Norway is organised as a cooperative between a number of public agencies and private and voluntary organisations. When we face such huge investments as these rescue helicopters, with fascinating technology, it's easy to forget that most rescue operations are based on voluntary teams in collaboration with public agencies. Both now and for the future, it is essential to facilitate voluntary efforts and for a good interaction between different actors in the rescue service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1825	I will try to make it as short as possible, but it is not possible to hide that I am a major supporter of the fact that we get the best possible rescue service. The representative Klinge was also involved in the voluntary element of this, but the support is the rescue helicopter service – today organized under the 330-square, which, according to my concepts, does an excellent job, but with very old tools. There's no doubt about it. There is a significant need for new rescue helicopters. We're looking at the number of missions. It's a demanding mission. But the government's bet over the last few years with bystander from Banak in the north to Back in the south, with doctors on all the bases, and the fact that one has established a base in Florø, makes it even more demanding given that the Sea King helicopters are old and need more frequent maintenance and overhaul. There is now a clear need to buy new ones. The acquisition process follows the country's quality assurance regime for large investment projects. We have just completed the first phase, and a quality-assured concept selection has been carried out. A multi-use concept based on a uniform fleet of an estimated 15 to 20 large helicopters and with bases such as today, at Banak, Bodø, Örland, Florø, Sola and Rygge, shall be continued in the next phase of the procurement process. I am very happy that the government has managed to end this now. These quality assurance regimes are heavy, but absolutely necessary processes to get the best possible tools for the money. But it is also an economic element in this. In fact, if you look at the life-cycle costs of future new rescue helicopters, they will quickly be lower per year than the costs of the old ones because so much maintenance is now required to keep them up. The goal of the government is to enable the rescue of 20 persons in distress within 150 nautical miles outside the baseline within two hours, which in practice means that the future helicopters must be able to fly a location between 220 and 270 nautical miles within two hours to exempt 20 persons and then return – this because the base is somewhat away from the baseline, of course. In addition, two emergency sites shall be capable of being fully rescued from the outer edge of the Norwegian rescue area. This means that emergency services will be provided even more quickly than they are today. The total lifetime cost of the new helicopter fleet, from acquisition to 2050, is expected to be between 29 and 39 billion. kr. It's a lot of investment we're going to meet. As I said, the acquisition goes into the next phase – the pre-project. Detailed acquisition solutions, together with associated management data and cost frameworks, will be developed to be quality assured by an external quality insurer. Today's Sea King fleet has limited life and, as mentioned above, is subjected to increasing strain, but we still work to ensure that this fleet will function well in operational service in the years ahead until they are replaced. It is set here a date to 2020. The representatives’ proposals state that the government intends to return to Stortinget during 2011 with an overall decision-making basis for both the acquisition of new rescue helicopters and the operation of today’s helicopter fleet. This will be a comprehensive package, and I will aim to promote the overall budgetary implications of the following three aspects: budgetary effects resulting from the implementation costs of the rescue helicopter project including all Svalbard conditions budgetary effects resulting from investments in new rescue helicopters risk mitigation and life-longering measures on the current helicopter fleet, including residual financing of remaining new heat-seeking camera; To this end, it is important to stress that the size of the risk-mitigation measures will depend to some extent on the decision of the government and the Storting regarding the acquisition. This makes it appropriate for the Storting to have all the budgetary implications combined. I say this very carefully now since the draft representative asked very much for us to come back in 2011, and I confirm that in this way that we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1854	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1857	I'm not going to make a serious case out of this, but in Technical Weekblad on 18 November 2010, the HMS Chief, Ketil Karlsen, said in Industry Energy: ‘Leave Ekofisk in the hole. The government will purchase new rescue helicopters that do not deal with a major accident in Ekofisk.» My question to the Council of State is as follows: Can the Council of State guarantee that the government will purchase a helicopter that will be able to deal with a major accident, for example. Ekofisk?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1868	I have never had the sense of guarantees relating to such a difficult situation as a major accident in the Ekofisk can actually be, but I hope the representative notices that we have submitted to a concept that will work faster and longer, in other words better than today's helicopters. So I'm pretty familiar with the concept that's been chosen, but it always has to be balanced against this – how good the machines are, how far they can fly, and how many people they can take. This is conflicting considerations. Someone wants more people into the helicopters, others want to fly anymore, and at some point we have to find the balance. Whether it works optimally, whether it's in Ekofisk or elsewhere, of course. depend on how fast you get, but it will also depend on how many you can bring. When someone asks for helicopters that can go even further, it can be at the expense of how many you can bring. We believe that we have found a good model and a good balance, but this could always be debated about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1875	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1893	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1909	It is important that a punishment has an effect. So far, one can well conclude that the experience of mediation in conflict proceedings is very good. In addition, it is a clear objective that several criminal cases should be resolved through mediation. In this case, the government proposes to allow police officers to delegate limited prosecution powers to officers or police officers, so that they can transfer criminal cases to conflict resolution. This applies to those who do not have a law firm. The proposal is a follow-up to a probationary system with extended jurisdiction for the officers in conflict proceedings. The evaluation shows that the testing scheme fulfilled the intention. In many cases, the conflict council has proved itself to be a good solution when conflicts arise. That's why we think this is an important supplement to legal practice. One sees that conflicts are resolved constructively instead of being brought before the courts. Such a consensual committee also sees mediation in the conflict councils as a preventive measure, so that young people do not get into a criminal career at an early stage. The Committee also notes that the rate of relapse for offenders is lower than in ordinary methods of punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1922	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1334]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1938	I just want to be brief enough to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation in order to get this matter through quickly, after we discovered that it was actually that if you had acquired shimmering equipment abroad and had it with you into Norway, it was not prohibited according to a Supreme Court judgment. The update of the law on international crime has taken place in express travel within the committee and will take place just as soon here in the Stortinget – with treatment today, with second treatment in the Stortinget, as I know it is planned on Thursday, and with the entry into force of the Council of State on Friday. A similar pace we have rarely seen in a law case, and it shows that there is a firm will here in the Storting to fight the new type of crime, namely shimmering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1945	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1335]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1961	The government has promoted changes in the Road Traffic Act, related to drug driving, and the changes are, of course, aimed at improving road safety. Norway was the first country in the world to introduce the per mille limit in 1936. Since then, the per million limit has been reduced and is now based on a zero tolerance principle. It has, among other things, led to fewer people today running with a prom than before the limit was set down. It gives us clear signals that driving and alcohol do not belong together, and that when the police have good control, it results. Therefore, it is high time to introduce the same in terms of driving under the influence of other drugs. Driving in a drug-induced state is one of the problems we face in road safety, and that problem has been increasing in recent decades. The Public Health Institute estimates that in a quarter of the deaths on Norwegian roads last year, drug use was a contributing cause. Traffic accidents cost society $10 billion each year, but the biggest cost is the victims who have to bear. When people lose their lives, family and friends lose something that is irreplaceable, and people who get hurt get their lives ruined. There is no budget line or political decision that can give the lost one back to those affected. This is precisely why good prevention policies are so important. It is therefore high time to introduce the same zero-tolerance principle for drug-induced driving as we have today for alcohol-induced driving. It is also about giving a clear and clear signal that driving and drugs do not belong together. We also know that it needs to be combined with better police control. The Committee therefore supports the amendment of the law, which will allow the police to implement as quickly as possible and use a so-called drug meter. Unfortunately, it is a tragic fact that young people are overrepresented in traffic accidents and drug driving. It is therefore an overall committee which supports the amendments which impose stricter penalties on those entitled to trial. Clear and clear responses to those who are in a drug-induced condition while on trial will have a preventive effect. That's important, because we don't have any kids to lose. It is a unanimous committee that has agreed on the vote and recommends all the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1978	It's not all the posts you take with you as much joy, but I'll try to be brief and explain why I take the word. The matter is important in itself. Strict response to drug-induced driving shall be provided. It is as the rapporteur said: this is the point on which the Committee fully agrees. But in the case of a small incubator, or what in good Norwegian is called slurv, the Progress Party has participated in a part of the law decision that we really do not agree with. In the case of a test driving licence, those holding a test licence shall have a more stringent response to their minor offences than others. That is what we believe to be discriminatory, and so is the fact that both the Police Directorate and the State Attorney have been very negative about such a system. Now it's like sluices punishing themselves. The Progress Party agrees that we are voting here on changes to a law as a whole, and we will, of course, also vote in favour of it. We shall not vote against the law. But we think it was good to note that we do not agree that those who have a driving licence on trial will have stronger reactions than others. This, in our view, will be discriminatory, and therefore it is not right. But, as I said, the Progress Party will not go against the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e1992	The zero vision, the desire for a future without fatal and severe damage to traffic, is our leading star in road safety work. Norway is one of the most traffic-proof countries in the world, and we see that the numbers of accidents, the number of injuries and the number of deaths are moving in the right direction. Last year 212 people were killed in traffic in Norway. Of course, it's 212 too many, but it's still the lowest number since 1954. By the end of November, numbers from Trygg Trafik show that we are at about the same level in the current year as last year. Traffic safety work is a long-term work, where it is a matter of having many thoughts in your head at the same time, and of having a coherent policy. The more we succeed in road safety work, the greater the political challenges of introducing new measures and new instruments. In-depth analysis by the State Road Service on road fatalities shows that driving in a drug-induced condition is a contributing cause in almost one third of all fatal accidents. It's serious. In addition, a recent study shows that more and more people are taking chances and are running in drug-induced conditions. That's why it's absolutely necessary to do something about this. What is happening today is an important step. Introducing zero tolerance for driving under the influence of drugs such as drugs and drugs will make it easier both to deal with the law and to enforce it. It is also important to provide a basis for rapid testing for narcotic drugs in line with a blow test to test if possible per mille. This will increase both the real detection risk and the perceived detection risk, which we know is effective in the prevention context. Unfortunately, drivers are often more concerned about losing their driving licence than about getting into a traffic accident — and at worst killing other people in traffic. An 18-year-old with a new driving licence has 40 times the risk of accidents than the rest of us. They are also overrepresented in statistics on drunk drivers. Therefore, it is a good idea that drivers with a test licence should lose their driving licence even if the promille is less than 0,5. Young people are also concerned about losing their driving licence, which is why this is an important step. Changing laws alone doesn't have much effect. It's only when the laws are enforced, when we all feel that there is a risk of being controlled, that the laws have a great effect. All road safety research shows that the single measure most effective in the short term is police controls. This is why it is important for the police to be on the road and operate traffic control, and therefore it is also important to support the print police, which has this as their primary task.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2009	For the sake of order only: it is good to be able to thank the Committee for its swift and thorough consideration of this matter. There is probably one thing that will be well received on the roads, because one here gives both the state road and the police the opportunity to intervene to a greater extent than at present in relation to drug driving. It is true that in many ways Norway has been a transitory country in the fight against drug abuse. As the first country in the world, we introduced limits to driving in an alcohol-induced state. Driving noise is a major road safety and social problem. A large proportion of road accidents involving heavy damage or killings are related to drug-induced driving. While the number of per mille drivers has fallen slightly, the volume of driving under the influence of drugs and drugs has increased in the last 10 to 20 years. Then there's a clear disparity between how pro-mille driving and the impact of other drugs are regulated. Today we have stricter limits on the effects of alcohol driving than for other drugs. Things where the driver is influenced by drugs are also much more resource-demanding for police and prosecution powers than pro-milles. We're going to improve road safety. We need zero tolerance for driving in drug abuse. The aim of legislative changes is to improve road safety and to facilitate more efficient use of resources by police, prosecutors and courts. The changes in the law will provide better consistency between the road traffic laws on driving alcohol and the laws on regulation of driving under the influence of other drugs. So we're imposing low legal limits on when one is in any case considered to be affected by alcohol other than alcohol under road traffic laws. The proposal is based on a zero tolerance principle. Then we give the police a legal secret to speed up traffic control in order to detect the possible impact of drugs other than alcohol. Similar to the use of alcometers, such acceleration will only give a preliminary indication of the influence of the driver. Positive tests will have to be followed up by blood tests and clinical examination. We introduce criminal-enforced measurement rules for drugrelated harm driving and simplification of the criminal-measurement rules for alcohol and other drugs. Then we introduce the loss of driving rights by punishing low-drug driving for people who have the right to drive on trial, regardless of whether the influence comes from alcohol or from drugs. The last one here is said to be a youth action. The reason why it will work especially for young people, we believe, is that young people are overrepresented both in relation to those who have the right to drive on trial and also in relation to accidents under the influence of drugs. Then there's probably someone who's wondering if they with their medications on prescription could be at risk of being framed by this. An exception will be introduced for those who have taken the medicinal product in accordance with the prescription. For these drivers, we will continue the legal mode. They will only be punished if the intake of the medicinal product has resulted in a degree of influence that has resulted in reduced driving performance. So in the same proposition, there's also a proposal for a law shelter for the State Road Service, so that they can remove vehicles that prevent other traffic, from the road. It's supposed to work at this time of year. It is with the background in winter 2006–2007 and the following winters, and the fact that vehicles, especially in heavy transport, appear on the road, while they actually have little to do there when we see how deficient many are. Now I see that there is nothing about it in this setting. It's enough because it's the Justice Committee that's been setting the agenda for what's going on. So I set up and hope that the Transport Committee will take that side of the proposition quickly for consideration. It is a matter that it is important to clear up and get settled for these days when we are now in the middle of a new winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2035	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1335]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2052	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Tora Aasland State Council has a speaking time of 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2061	First of all, I think we can thank you for a very quick procedure in some of the cases here from a slightly andbreathed case rapporteur – but thank you for the word. Vocational education has its strength, in particular, in the fact that the system is very flexible and that the development of the provision of study takes place in close dialogue with the labour market. This makes the education received through the vocational school very relevant, and it meets a very special need in the workplace. Vocational education and training provide a good and important opportunity for skilled workers to meet the demand for more specialisation and knowledge in their professional life and occupations. The need for labour is also expected to increase within almost all lower-level or higher-level educational groups. The Committee has previously believed, and I believe, that more flexibility between several levels of education will in general lead to more and more higher education. In the labour market, the demand for skills will increase. The vocational schools offer an offer that is absolutely indispensable in the knowledge society, where it is increasingly important to ensure transition opportunities for skilled workers. This will also provide society with a completely needed higher level of competence. In the case of young people, the vocational school represents a natural course of continuing education after having completed a course of study, whether they have the ambition to become managers in their professional fields or only want a special specialisation/food competence in their field of study. It is also important that young people see that there are more opportunities, more career paths. It's not like either you have to start a vocational education and finish your career there, or you have to start specializing in studies and end up as a professor. There are many possibilities and many ways to go, and the college has a special strength here. This – that is, showing career paths – can be done by showing the opportunities provided by vocational schools to qualify for higher education, such as higher education or university education. So it's important to see that there are opportunities for further study by choosing a more practical education. Young people need to see that there is a further career path. Clear transitions are likely to improve recruitment to the profession and also recruitment to the vocational school. It is a unanimous committee that supports amendments to the Law on Vocational Education, as proposed in Prop. 161 L for 2009-2010. The Committee considers that the work on a national qualification framework and its alignment with a European Qualifications Framework are very important. Work on a vocational training framework is important and, hopefully, will also provide better opportunities and more mobility for the European labour market. The legislative changes proposed by the Ministry of Knowledge shall also facilitate the laying down of a future national qualification framework for vocational education and training. It is also an overall committee which supports the addition of a proposal to establish a basis for the preparation of regulations on vocational school credits, exemption from or adaptation of other equivalent education and competence, and common assessment terms for examination, examination, assessment of task or other assessment. The Committee believes that it is important to do this in order to achieve good inter-disciplinary arrangements to facilitate the transition from higher education to vocational education and to enable and facilitate real-time assessment of vocational education. During the examination carried out by the Committee by St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, also known as the Education Line, the Committee was united in the wish to investigate whether a vocational school score system should be introduced. The Committee therefore considered that: ‘such a system will provide the candidate with additional evidence of acquired competence’. The Committee further considered that this should lead to greater simplification «predictability of applications for admission to higher education or shortening of studies, if any». It is good that this is now being followed up and investigated further. It is important to stress that the legislative and regulatory changes to be made should and should contribute to facilitating admission to other higher education and lead to a greater predictability of any applications for admission to higher education or shortening studies. The Oslo College, in consultation with the Department, has stated that there may be a risk that post-secondary and post-secondary education can lead to a mix-up with credits. This is a view not shared by a Joint Committee. Like the Department and the UNIO Hearing Body, the Committee considers it important to look at the work of the vocational training framework as part of a comprehensive national education system and to describe the transition between the different levels of the education system, not only the content of the training. It is my opinion that a system of post-school credits could form part of this. Several have suggested that it should be possible to translate academic credits into study credits. The Committee shares the view that the value of vocational education and training should be made more visible than today and that the lines between education and training systems should be reduced. It is therefore important for the Ministry to involve the newly established Board of Vocational Education in the development of a framework allowing for simpler and more predictable transitions between vocational schools and higher education. At the heart of this work is the recognition of the actual knowledge and competence acquired through completed vocational education. In the budgetary position to be discussed here until Thursday, there is also an overall committee which agrees that it is now important to follow closely the development of the vocational schools, after they have been transferred to the county council, and that the 6A schools have been taken back to the state. There is a minority in the Committee of the Right and Christian People's Party who will now make a change on this, and return the funding of the vocational schools to the state. I don't understand why it should be done after such a short time, especially when you're in a comment saying that you want to follow developments closely. So it seems a little premature in a treatment of a revision of a legal text to propose such a change. In the end, I just want to say that it should be an overall goal for everyone and in the work on that, that it should be arranged for more people to choose a vocational school education, much in the light of the arguments I have put forward earlier. Much of what should be done, then, is to facilitate better cooperation between universities, colleges and colleges and facilitate their transitions, while at the same time preserving the special nature of vocational schools, precisely the strong link between the labour market and the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2112	The President mentioned that the General Council of the state of Tora Aasland should be given the floor. After that, several people have signed up, and I think the matter is well served that one member of each party is given the floor before the Council of State gets the floor. The next speaker is Bente Thorsen – then Svein Harberg. Then we'll get back to the state council of Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2115	I have said something wrong in my post. Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2120	It is possible to correct a manifest misunderstanding, and if it is the representative’s own misunderstanding, he should be given the opportunity to correct it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2123	Thank you for that, President. I was injured to say that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have proposed changes in the funding of the vocational schools. So it is the Progress Party and the Right that have proposed this change. Then I hope it doesn't offer further follow-up in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2131	It's okay to have facts on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2134	It is important to correct your own mistakes and misunderstandings – and that was done, so I don't want to say anything about it. A national qualification framework for higher education at universities and higher education institutions has already been established that is adapted to both the European Qualifications Framework for Higher Education and the EU Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning. This provides a good overview of learning outcomes defined as knowledge, skills and general competence of a candidate who has completed the training in question. The purpose of this proposal is to adopt equivalent measures for vocational training courses. The Party considers that the visibility of the vocational school as an important educational option is of great importance. Flexibility in the vocational school system is important. Education and schools must be able to be established and completed according to changing skills and capacity needs in the labour market. It is important to stress that this is what must govern changes in the vocational school, not the economy of the individual state. Professional schools, in cooperation with industry, have experience in rapidly developing new offers. The trade schools are also very flexible and can quickly turn around to set up new offers. The Progress Party believes that this is important when changing the law. For this reason, it is also important that a broad mandate be given to the establishment of the FTE and that it focuses on making the vocational schools visible by contributing to the development of frameworks and strategies for vocational education that meet the needs of all those involved for competence and lifelong learning. A national qualification framework for vocational education and training shall not apply only to complex theoretical themes. It shall also be valid for assessment situations of applied practical knowledge. The framework must also ensure and describe the transition between vocational schools and higher education. The Party welcomes the launch of a process towards clarifying what vocational education and training represents. It is important to make the vocational school visible as an independent alternative to other higher education and to focus on quality development and relevance. Here, the labour market has a co-responsibility to make the need for education more visible. Furthermore, harmonisation of requirements is important. In today's global working life and housing patterns, it is almost a prerequisite to have similar qualifications in the same subject. According to the School of Trade in Kristiansand, the number of cooperation agreements between specialised schools and non-resident educational institutions for the exchange, cooperation and/or the dispensation of vocational education in the event of admission to higher education is increasing, both among public and private vocational schools. Each year, an estimated 500 pupils/students go from private vocational schools, represented by the Forum for Vocational Schools, Abelia, to foreign universities with which they have agreements. It is therefore important to facilitate internationalisation in vocational education. There is a need to see vocational education and higher education more closely in the context, both nationally and internationally. The party has registered that the colleagues of the government parties are also dissatisfied with the fact that the financial responsibility has been transferred to the states. According to the Sunnmørsposten on 27 November 2010, SV in Møre and Romsdal are very clear that, after the state budget was presented, all calculations show that the state funding of the maritime subjects at the technical schools is inadequate. It is also stressed that vocational schools provide important competences for the large maritime industries in the county. There is a cross-political agreement to preserve both content and structure. Reference is made to the recent decision of the County Committee on an additional 5 million. kr, which may continue today’s offer structure for the following years. But such a priority weakens the financial framework for higher education. At the same time as the County Committee, Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal SV assume that, by the latest in the revised State budget for 2011, the State will have an additional budget of at least 10 million. kr, so that today's offer can be maintained. It is not just the Progress Party and the Right that react to it when those who are absolutely involved react. Then it is not unreasonable that we take these signals and follow them up. Further development of vocational schools requires long-term funding to enable vocational schools to be identified as serious and good educational services. It is important for recruiting students and attracting experienced teachers. That predictability is important, something everyone knows. Then it is not only useful with beautiful words about the subject schools; then it is about giving the subject schools predictable financial framework conditions to get a good vocational school for those who need it for the subject schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2157	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review. I think all the possibilities surrounding the technical schools that are pointed out and referred to are important. It's a complicated image, but it's an important image. It is good that there is no big discussion on this matter, because the purpose is to create a basis for us to have a national qualifications framework, and that we can see the vocational schools in a whole, both in relation to higher education and higher education. We may well see in these days, as the labour market is now, that more than in a long time it has been relevant to use the vocational schools to continue and re-train. It'll be good to see them in a whole. So I'm very grateful every time we have a case about the colleges here, because it helps put the school team on the agenda. It is therefore good that the Committee points out that the value of vocational schools should be made visible even better than today and that the various offers should be coordinated. It will be exciting to see how one day the new vocational school council can be involved in this work. I think that was a trick. I am pleased that it is in place, and that the Council can participate in looking at how the vocational education offer can be developed further. Both the case rapporteur and the previous speaker went thoroughly through some of the issues, so I'm going to make it a little shorter. But I also want to point out this with funding, because it's important to us. I noticed that the case rapporteur thought it was strange that we should follow up on what is happening, while proposing that funding should be returned to the state. Yes, it's now so that we know what minority we're in. Today, this is the way the arrangement is, and then, of course, we're going to follow it carefully. But the last year has given us a lot of examples and requests that the system that is now being set up is not working well. There are county municipalities that have spent the entire distribution of the money on single schools – i.e. single schools owned by the county council – which are then to distribute the money to county schools and private schools. It has rightly been pointed out by the central authorities that this is not the case, but it shows some of the challenges surrounding this – that when one has both private and public actors, it is difficult to transfer the money without stricter guidelines to one of the market players. That is why, in principle, we believe that the funding of the vocational schools should go back to the state, and we also think that it belongs there because this is the transition to higher education from the basic school offer we have in Norway. It is immeasurably important for the vocational schools to have long-term funding. Predictability is important for recruiting students, and it is important to recruit skills for these schools. That predictability is not per day. We also experienced that some of the so-called 6A schools, which were offered to go to colleges, were not actually in this picture at all. It was good that the government took hold of this this summer, and got them into direct government funding. But then I have been informed by today that one of these schools went down almost 400,000 kroner in funding when they now received a letter of assignment. It's not a very predictable framework. What should suggest that they suddenly lose between 300,000 and 400,000 kroner in funding? That's how you can't get good schools run. One can't bet on the schools in the future. We have to sort that out. This is why it is very important that in the future a high level of emphasis is placed on the financing of vocational schools. The right still clearly believes that it should go to the state, and then we believe that one must go through it thoroughly and see how one should recover the real costs that these schools have. Many of them have special equipment that costs a lot of money. I can mention the health sector, which we have a great need to provide education. I can mention the maritime sector, which has been mentioned here before, where on part of them are machine equipment. We need to find a system that makes the vocational school offer a good offer, with the equipment that is necessary and right to go on with that education. These points will probably come back to us in the budgetary procedure later this week. What lies in the reality of the matter today, at least we agree – and that is a good first step to strengthen the vocational schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2178	We are now talking about an education that I am convinced is that the entire Kuf Committee and the Council of State are very pleased. It's an education that needs more positive attention. It is important today, and all projections show that it will become even more important in the future because society needs more of that kind of education. I also think we're going to notice more and more that there's a lot of young people who will appreciate doing just that type of education. Yes, many adults will also be asking for the type of education they will receive in the future. So all the things that show that we're more accepting and including the colleges in Education-Norway, it's positive to get on the Scissors' Map and have discussions, among other things. in this room. I agree with what has been said, that we need more stuff to get the colleges in place even more as we all want. I fully agree that this financing model must be looked at in greater detail. Among other things, it is a cross-thinking that in higher education and in education at universities and universities, we accept that different types of education cost different. We don't do that for colleges. That's the point, among other things. Møre and Romsdal SV have quite correctly understood and made a contribution. It's a problem for our colleges. Fortunately, many of our specialised schools and these schools have ambitions to operate on a national market. It might be a little problematic to do today. There was a good argument that the vocational schools in their time were added to the county municipality. At least there were very many good arguments that the vocational schools were added to regions – if we had now got five to seven regions. We didn't get that. One of the good arguments was that one could connect it to higher education, but not least that it would be linked to regional development and to local and regional business. It was a beautiful and good argument, which I strongly support. Then it didn't become five to seven regions. There are then absolute arguments that these vocational schools will be easier to operate in the State. First of all, it makes sense because the colleges are a higher education, as we all know. And when college and university are state-owned, it makes sense to place colleges to state. Secondly, we have the argument that I mentioned instead, that it would be easier for the vocational schools to operate on a national market, just like college and other universities. There's going to be an exciting debate that we're going to take forward. Then I think it is natural to challenge not least the county councils, who have now received this education, and the KS, as their partner organisation, to offensively address this problem, so that they can take this discussion forward with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2192	This issue is primarily a recognition of the important role of vocational schools in responding to skills needs in society. It's a role and a task the vocational schools have taken seriously over decades. It's a school team that's getting increasingly political focus, and they're doing this and many other things in finding their place in the education system formally. Because we have to admit that sometimes it has been difficult to define: what are the colleges going to be? What are the colleges going to do? We take this a long step closer today when we deal with this matter. Professional schools have just been very good at providing education that responds to societal challenges – you can take the Action Reform, and you can take climate and energy. The trade school in Gjøvik, which is located in my home country, Oppland, is one of the country's largest vocational schools. For example, it offers: vocational education in climate, energy and environment in construction, care for the elderly and care for cancer and relief – education that is also organised to enable people to participate in different phases of life. The proposal we are discussing here today is based on a national qualification framework which will also look at vocational school credits, the relationship with other equivalent education and competence, assessment by examination, assessment of tasks, etc. In the view of the Centre Party, this is an important step in ensuring the flexibility of the education system of which the vocational schools are part and an educational system in which the vocational schools are likely to play a more central role in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2201	I fully agree with the previous speakers that there has been a development in this area. The role of vocational schools in the education system has now been much greater and clearer, and there has been an important development in this area. Vocational education is becoming more accepted as a higher vocational education now than it has been in the past. But it's multiplicity. It can range from half to two years of education, modular, full-time and part-time. The training shall be professional, as tertiary education, and their competence shall be directly applicable in the workplace. This type of school meets the growing need for professional competence in the labour market, including certifications such as master certificates and installation tests. This issue is primarily about creating a national qualifications framework. It seems the Christian People's Party is wise, and it is important that it also comes into place for this school battle. The Christian People's Party also seems to be right to introduce vocational school credits, and that it will recognise the important supply of skills that we need from the vocational school. Professional schools are too many the natural career path if you have chosen a professional in high school, and that's almost 50 pst. by our youth school that has. Through this case, students who have taken colleges will be able to attend higher education and universities in other countries more easily. As I said, the vocational schools cover a wide field, and they are diverse. There's no doubt that this is a school battle that we need. The Christian People's Party supported their transfer to the states in the context of regional reform. But I must also say that the Christian People's Party has become a little concerned. Because with the diversity we have of schools, and with so different funding systems, it seems that the schools have not done well enough for county municipalities to be able to make an overall assessment of this type of school. I believe that the government must follow this development closely, and it must look into whether we meet the national competence needs by transferring the school battle down to the county council. I refer in particular to the situation that has arisen in More and Romesdal, to which the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide will come back in an article later. But the Christian People's Party is behind what is in the position, which the matter is really about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2216	The proposed four new regulatory changes to the Law on Vocational Education will facilitate the laying down of a future national qualification framework for vocational education and training. In the previous revision of the Law on Vocational Education, the Committee stressed the importance of the development of a good national qualifications framework by the Ministry, together with the education actors. That's the job that's now done. I agree with the Committee that it is important to make the vocational schools better visible. One way to do this is to improve the statistical base of the colleges, and we're now working systematically on that. The main visualisation is through the Qualification Framework. It will show the place of vocational education in the education system and its distinctive character, which several of the speakers have had, as a vocational alternative to higher education, and indeed as part of our higher education offer. Another important manifestation is the establishment of the National College Council. This has now been established with broad representation from the social partners and from different organisations. We have invited four representatives from the Board of Vocational Education to participate in the Ministry's work to produce learning outcomes descriptions for vocational education. This is a very constructive and positive work. There must be predictable transitional arrangements between vocational schools and higher education, and I note that the Committee is concerned about this. However, in my view, the provisions of the Law on Credit and Exemption from Education provide an adequate basis for good ways to do just that. Universities and higher education institutions shall, in these cases, make a professional assessment of the educational background of vocational candidates. Therefore, the general rule should remain that it is the professional background and not the automatic one that will determine the transition arrangements from one training to another. I also want to work to ensure that, in the relevant disciplines, agreements can be made on exemption between specialised schools and higher education institutions. It is important that we have a flexible and flexible system for this. Such an agreement already exists for two-year technical vocational schools, which are the basis for individual studies. Furthermore, I would like to point out that in 2008 a Council and European Parliament Recommendation on a European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning was adopted in the EU, naturally abbreviated to EQF. In Norway, an overall national qualification framework for lifelong learning was set in motion in the autumn of 2009. It is important for the Ministry of Knowledge that the basis of law is in place in all relevant laws before the referral document for the overall national qualification framework is sent to the European Commission. An overall proposal for a national qualification framework shall be clear in the spring of 2011. As I said, we're working on doing this whole thing, so that the vocational schools are a natural part of all levels of education. We aim to submit the reference document for the overall national Qualifications Framework to the European Commission at the end of 2011. I look at the Committee's attitude that the Right Party and the Advance Party are concerned about the connection to the county municipalities. In my opinion, this is about the trust we have in our regional level, in the county municipalities. Funding is an important starting point for this discussion, and we have so far been able to transfer exactly the same amount to the county councils that the colleges had when they were part of the state system. But of course, we're going to follow this closely, and I'm very positive that we have the National College Council, which is also involved and follows developments seen by all actors. The positive thing about it being anchored in the county council is that the county council is not only responsible for higher education and adult education, but is also an important regional development actor, which should be a good incentive to organise good vocational school provision, whether it is within the technical, maritime – as we see in More and Romesdal, which is a precursor in this respect – or in other types of vocational school provision. We are concerned that we are now getting this in place, so that we can follow the work of the qualifications framework and the overall approach, and I am convinced that we can jointly provide an even better basis for the vocational schools ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2242	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2245	The law that regulates our trade unions has had some obvious weaknesses. It's now being corrected. In Norway, as in the rest of Europe, a National Qualifications Framework for Vocational Education will contribute to a clearer visibility of the exchange of learning and the qualification of end-of-life education. This will enable a Norwegian Qualifications Framework to be related to a corresponding European system in the future. And since it is the case that European workers seek cross-border work, this is a completely necessary journey for the comparison of education and training levels. So this is also part of the Bologna process. European countries and the world of work are becoming more and more integrated in each other. It is a reality, and it is good that the law must also be adjusted. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a code of conduct to draw up regulations on the relative number of academic credits, conditions related to other equivalent education and skills and a common character system. This is good. There is also much agreement on cross-political issues. What is not agreed is the Right and the Progress Party's desire that the State assume the financial responsibility and governance of the trade unions away from the proximity of local businesses and development, which must be managed locally. The need for long-termity in funding and the framework conditions will be justified. Isolatedly, all are probably some about the need for long-termity in funding, but the political long-termity of these parties is sadly short. Eight months after the discussion of the St.meld trade unions. No 44 for 2008-2009, then, the Right Party and the Advance Party will place the government of the disciplines of the State. The county authorities have been responsible for this for less than one year. It is too short to claim that the system itself is not working. Is this probably a rematch on the role of the county council? Is that what we can observe? Or is it perhaps a contribution to the centralization of the country for which the Right and the Advance Party are committed? I don't think they've got the intention to do the math. The responsibility for the operation and financing of the vocational schools was added to the county councils because priority and adaptation of vocational education and training to regional employment was necessary. This shall be seen in conjunction with the study programme of the further training. It's like this country that there's a big difference in needs from one part of the country to the other. Employment and business have their local needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2260	This is an important issue, focusing on a school offer that is important to the business community in our country. The fact that the law on vocational education is now being amended and that it proposes changes to the law to facilitate the laying down of a future national qualification framework for vocational education and training is positive. That being said, it is important that we do not rock the identity of the college. There is a reason why many people choose vocational education and not higher education. Accompanying a vocational education and receiving a vocational letter is a full education. That's the way it has to be in the future. What is my concern and that of the Christian People's Party is linked to the transition from government funding to county government. There are concerns about discrimination between county schools and private schools. But in my home country, More and Romesdal, we need several million to continue today's offer with the maritime vocational schools in Ålesund and Kristiansund. So funds are taken from high school to be transferred to the operation of the colleges to do it. If there is nothing radical in the distribution key between the different disciplines, this important offer needs to be reduced – it is a reality. The maritime industry is concerned about, and believes, the reduction of maritime education in More and Romesdal will clearly contribute to challenges related to the development of skills and the recruitment of future workers. Let's do this, for example. recent changes in the fishing industry, with the largest coastal fleet, have also helped to increase the number of certification posts on board this fleet. And the trend is that this development will increase in the years to come. Therefore, training capacity must not be reduced. We have many who follow the debate on the subject of vocational schools, and I look forward to this school offer, which today falls in many ways between several chairs, being treated to make it clear that as a society we value a good professional education in line with the more academic education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2273	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1337]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2289	The Committee is aware that a number of investigations and cooperation processes have been initiated in the university and higher education sectors which could lead to the merger of some higher education institutions. What is particularly relevant at present is a merger process between SiO and OAS, and the Committee understands the government's wish to deal with this matter as soon as possible. The Committee agrees that the government has a major ongoing work in the field of student co-operation legislation, and the rapid examination of this matter requires a mild clarification that if there are unintended consequences of the proposal which has not been taken into account in the present legislative proposal, the Committee asks that this be taken into account in the further work. Furthermore, the Committee endorses the government's proposal to ensure that the consolidation of student relations can be carried out with continuity. Then I recommend the unanimous recommendation of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2298	I am pleased with the unanimous recommendation of the Committee, and I shall not extend the debate by more than a few minutes. It is important for everyone that we have a starting point with a real equal right to higher education, and student welfare offers are an instrument and, in many cases, a prerequisite for just equal opportunity to study. The main task of student relations is to provide welfare services to the students, and any document fee for aggregation will go directly beyond the student relations offer to the students. That's a little bit of the background because we're now promoting this proposition. The proposal makes proposals for amendments to the Student Cooperation Act, which specifies that mergers of partnerships are to be carried out with so-called continuity in line with merger of limited liability companies and foundations. This means that, in the case of mergers, there will be no transfer of the registered office, which in turn means that no document fee will be levied on the transfer of real estate. These changes make student relationships equal to other forms of enterprise, while at the same time improving the conditions for pooling student relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2311	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1337]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2319	Then it looks like we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2327	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1-13, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 14-24, by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 25, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in close cooperation with the National Association for Homofil and Lesbian Liberation, is asked to strengthen and launch the project ‘Rosa Competence Justice’.’ [[LHBT]] The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2356	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15-22 and proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up its own victims and relatives representative.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to cover all costs incurred by the owner relating to the removal of the grenades during the Molund Bridge in Tromsø.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the limitation period for killing be removed by the government.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Board of Governors requests the Presidency, in cooperation and in agreement with the Government, to submit proposals for a judicial commission or a court commission to assess changes in the responsibilities and organisation of the Court of Justice, with a view to strengthening the autonomy of the courts and independence of the other powers of the State.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to liquidate all forms of compensation rebates for prisoners in Norwegian prisons.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish clear guidelines for the distribution of funds on top. 440 Item 70 of the State budget.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to earmark funds for the immediate escalation of the staffing of the Sunnmøre Police District.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a guarantee of work for all police students who have completed their three-year police training so that they are entitled to work. The guarantee shall be valid up to the target of 2 officials per year. 1000 inhabitants have been achieved.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the mandate of the Resumption Commission and whether the Commission should have its own right of initiative in relation to the opening of proceedings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2414	The proposals are then put to the vote. 14 and 23, from the Advance Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify the process of joint location of police special services, helicopter services and police high school in the Oslo area.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of parts of the task portfolio The Forensic Institute has linked DNA analyses for the police to the GENA in Stavanger until the RMI is ready to perform the tasks satisfactorily and has achieved the necessary certification.’ [[RMI]] The right has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2438	Proposal No. 7, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for more intensive work to be done on setting up compensation transfers agreements for foreign criminals, and for setting up its own prison departments for criminal foreigners.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2453	Proposals Nos. 3, 9 and 12, from the Advancement Party and the Right, is then taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate the possible establishment of its youth rehabilitation institutions which commit repeated or serious crimes.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to earmark funds for the education/employment of several drug dogs with leaders in prison.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of an aid lawyer for children who have been killed or who have died in suspicious circumstances.’ The Christian People's Party has announced here that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e2482	Proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4–6, 8, 10, 11 and 13, from the Party of Advancement and Right, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review all aspects of the fall of rigging Deep Sea Driller, explaining both causes and responsibilities and clarifying any responsibility of the authorities towards survivors and survivors.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an overview of the level of safety in the Norwegian courts, together with an overview of the necessary upgrading needs in this context.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a plan for improving the settlement capacity in Haugaland and the possible construction of new prison there.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government immediately to ensure that the Skien prison is secured with the necessary lock.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that an independent and critical evaluation of the conditions and content of the social penalty is carried out.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a key message to ensure better cooperation and a clearer division of responsibilities between criminal justice and psychiatry, child protection, and the education sector during 2011.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of new tasks and measures that have affected the use of resources in the police in the last 15 years and the influence these tasks have had on the use of resources in the police.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a timetable for the 2011 revised national budget for the time when the needs of civil protection will be met in line with the St.meld. [[2007-2008]] No This Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the organisation of victim care in accordance with the model of Sweden and to return to Stortinget with any plans for its implementation.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e4736	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e5808	During the debate, the representative Anders B. Werp put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of a case with an overall decision-making basis for both the acquisition of new rescue helicopters and the operation of today’s helicopter fleet by the end of 2011.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e5821	The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e5905	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e5914	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6001	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6011	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6066	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6076	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6284	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6294	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6347	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6357	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6400	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6410	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-06.ana.ud2298e6489	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
