ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e113	Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen on leave from 11 November to 16 November and from the representative of Mr Heikki Holmås on leave from 12 November to 16 November, both in order to take part in the autumn session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Warsaw from the Workers' Party Group on sickness leave for the representative Wenche Olsen from 11 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand For Oslo: Mari Lund Arnem For Eastfold County: Kari Agerup and Stein Erik Lauvås
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e156	Kari Storstrand and Kari Agerup are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Giltun, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e161	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik, Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on national guidelines on quality and quantity in the TT system, and a financing system that ensures TT transport in line with the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e166	The representative, Henning Skumsvoll, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e169	On behalf of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Oskar J. Grimstad and myself, I present a proposal for a representative to change the concession policy for gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e174	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e188	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e195	Today, the Stortingen has a proposal from the Progress Party for a hospitation scheme for programme trainers. The proposers ask the government to investigate how to design a national development plan for programme trainers in secondary school through a hospitation scheme. According to the proposers, the basis for the proposal is to ensure that programme trainers are given the opportunity, in particular, to follow their professional technological progress and to have the opportunity to take part in this development of their skills in their own field. The idea is that skilled professionals who become teachers in higher education should continue to be able to maintain good contact with their subject. Engaged and up-to-date teachers who link theory and practice more closely are important in motivating and inspiring their students to step up their efforts and providing the basis for more people to complete the planned training course. The demands of the labour market are increasing and the proposers are concerned that the school should provide training as up-to-date and relevant as possible. The key to this is education that better reflects the challenges of the different disciplines and industries and that gives students the most realistic starting point on the day they debut in the workplace, whether as an apprentice after two years in school or later after several years on the school bench. The proposers call for a concrete plan for a hosting scheme for programme trainers to enable secondary education students to meet teachers who are better up-to-date in the subjects and sectors to which they are going to train. A Joint Committee supports the proposal makers in the fact that a more active exchange of skills between school and working life is the way to ensure that students are as well equipped as possible when they get to work. The minority in the committee, all except the government parties, also supports the proposal itself. In its comments, the Committee refers to the reference of the New GIV project by the State Budget next year, which will contribute to increased implementation in higher education. It can be seen that New GIV, among other things, shall ensure the development of the competence of teachers and trainers in professional and professional training. The Committee has also noted that, in its reply to the Committee, the Minister of Knowledge agrees with the proposers that cooperation between school and working life is important in order to develop the skills of teachers and to update their expertise. The Committee is also aware that the State Council has asked the Education Directorate to consider a HSH proposal for a hospice system for teachers in the business community and that it is necessary to consider in more detail how such a system can be integrated into continuing training for teachers. On the websites of the Directorate-General for Education, ‘Teachers and trainers — Competence and role’ is addressed in particular under the main subjects Learning schedules and the Principle of Training: ‘As clear leaders, teachers and instructors shall understand the purpose of the training and shall stand out as competent and committed intermediaries and guides.’ And on the other hand, ‘The competences of teachers and instructors need to be assessed on the basis of the requirements and expectations of law and regulation, including the curriculum, and the evolution of the subject. Schools and educational establishments shall be learning organisations and shall facilitate teachers to learn from each other through cooperation on the planning, implementation and evaluation of training. Teachers and instructors shall also be able to update and renew their professional and pedagogical competence, including through development of competences, including participation in development work.’;» There is cross-political agreement both on the need for and the need for transfer of competences from working life to school, and within the New GIV, the government has pointed to the development of skills for teachers and trainers in vocational and vocational training as one of several relevant actions. Two questions are then raised: When is the assessment of the HSH application expected by the Education Directorate? And how quickly does the Minister of Knowledge see that a hospitation scheme for programme trainers can possibly be put in place and tested? Furthermore, the Committee recommends that the draft representative be annexed to the minutes. Finally, on behalf of the minority in the Committee, I would like to address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e233	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e236	The parties signed and the government have a great deal of understanding of the ideas behind this proposal for a representative from the Progress Party. Vocational training in Norway takes place in schools and in the workplace as a general rule. This means that exchanges between the two are important in order to optimise vocational training. In the vocational school, there are mainly two types of teachers: programme teachers and community teachers. Both of these types of teachers are likely to benefit greatly from some form of hospitation. The proposal of the Progress Party deals only with programme trainers. Programme teachers often have a practical background from the subjects in which they teach. Nevertheless, programme trainers need to update their knowledge of the programme subjects. There are major technological developments in all disciplines. Professionals out in the company are constantly being filled with new knowledge to deal with the development of the profession. It's important that teachers also get. However, it is at least equally important to look at the need for a hospice system. These teachers often have an academic background, and they need to familiarize themselves with the subjects in which their students will have a future career. The fact that these teachers get more insight into new disciplines allows them to become better teachers for their students. The proposers justify their proposal in the fight against non-response. There is a fight government and the red-green parties here on the Stortinget have on top of their agenda. This is why the government has also launched New GIV, a national tool to increase implementation in higher education. There's a wide bet here. Some of the main points are closer follow-up of weak pupils, both in youth and in secondary education, measures to reduce the absence of the student, strengthening the counselling service, more relevant and practical vocational training, cooperation with the social partners to provide more apprenticeships through a new social contract, strengthening the follow-up service and cooperation between the follow-up service and the hub to reach youth outside both work and education. The government also draws attention to budget accommodation, where it writes: ‘In addition, professional correction should be strengthened by further strengthening cooperation with the labour market. The current measures are to expand the supply of pupils and youth enterprises and to stimulate hostitising schemes between teachers and the labour market.’ And – not to ruin the tension around the budgetary procedure: but this is also supported by the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens here on the Stortinget. When the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre do not vote in favour of the opposition proposal today, it is because we perceive that the government has the same understanding as all the parties here on the Stortinget, namely that it is important to correct the situation and strengthen the competence of the teachers, and that the government is already working on this and sees that the hosting system can be important in order to do just that. It is also important to understand that the fight for increased implementation in secondary education does not have just one response. Many measures have to be taken at different levels. I do not think it is appropriate for the Storting to deal with each of these measures individually and separately. I think it's better for the government to have the opportunity to see the different measures in context, and I'm sure the government will. The government is now working on implementing the policy that is very well described in the Education Line. The working party believes that this is the right way to work against school drop-outs. However, we support the intentions of the proposal and therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e263	The problem of non-response is much debated in the political landscape today, and very much in this committee, which is incredibly good. I think it's very important for the school sector and for society as a whole that there is now cross-political agreement on the main areas of activity, and I'm glad that it is. We all have common goals for school, but we have different tools. I believe that one of the objectives we have, and that is the intention of this proposal as well, is to increase the quality of programme trainers. And I think this tool is something we can share in. There is also a cross-political consensus that the school has become too theoretical and is perceived as too little practical for many. One of the most important measures against non-response is therefore precisely to create more arenas where they with good practical characteristics and abilities will have the opportunity to develop this and be good in these areas as well. And I'm very happy that it looks like there's also political consensus in that field. But I'd like to warn you about a little thing. I have recorded in the debate that it may seem from individual parties and from individual parties to argue for practical subjects that some students are weak in the theoretical. I think that's not why we're going to have more practice. I think we should have more practice precisely because of the self-value of the practical subjects. And that's where a lot of the problem lies for recent years' development, I think, is that you talk about practical subjects for the theories. We need to re-establish the status of the practical subjects, and both through the actions we do and the way we politicians talk about them, stress that practical competence is as valuable and as important as theoretical competence. The secondary education programmes shall enable students to carry out work as a full-time job in their profession. The course gives theoretical introduction for the first two years on the school bench, and then turns the theory into practice in the workplace. Then it's a big challenge to make sure that students experience coherence between what they learn at school and what they actually meet in businesses. We have two challenges here: one of them, which I'm not going to go into, is a lack of equipment. There must be modern, timely equipment for programme professionals to enable them to learn their profession. The second – what we are discussing here – is that it is important that teachers have up-to-date expertise in this area. We all know – and it's been said probably from all the parties from this pulpit in the last year – the importance of the teacher's competence and commitment to the students' learning, it's also important here. A large number of programme teachers are skilled professionals who have built on extra pedagogical training. It is then important that they are given the opportunity, and allowed, to follow the technological developments in their profession. It goes without saying that changing fluorescent lamps on an old black and white fluorescent TV in the 1970s is something different than changing the fuse on a 50-inch plasma TV today. It is therefore important that they are given the opportunity to follow professional developments. And therefore, in the Progress Party, we just want to facilitate a hospitation scheme that gives teachers the opportunity to get into businesses for a week, two weeks, maybe a month or two, as appropriate, in order to follow developments, to be able to participate and re-exercise their profession with the new tools, with the new technology and the new, modern working methods. When they come back, we are first of all assured that the knowledge that the teacher gives the student and teaches the student is actually the knowledge that the student needs to meet today's labour market. Secondly, I think it will help to create a much greater commitment among the teachers themselves in their profession and professional fields, which will also be able to infect the students. Thirdly, I think it is important because this will increase the quality in general in programme subjects and in higher education. I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for the positive answer she gave in this process. I'm incredibly happy about that. I'm really glad that it's no longer political coins or ideologies, but that you look at what's actually going to work. I am very pleased about that, and I look very gentle on the further work on this matter and on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e278	The magazine Plan and work published in the 1990s an article entitled ‘With Plan Norway shall be governed by the State’. I'm not going to mention the name of the article writer, but it was a very well-written article. Not least, the many good, wise reflections that there may be too much national planning in society with the associated bureaucratic activity related to assessing the level of achievement, etc. And there can be not least too much «participation planning»: that you address only a partial problem and then create a violent national planning plan based on it, a point that the representative Truls Wickholm was making in his post as a critical reflection on what is proposed here. For the only disagreement between us in this room now is whether a national plan is needed, or whether there is no need for a national plan. For someone who has planning as a profession, it's great and beautiful that it's called after more planning. But, as I said, not least I think there may be too many plans, there may be too much planning, and there may not least be too much disaggregated focus on something that is a more completely interesting and important issue. It's kind of funny to me that at a time when we're otherwise problematic about red tape and will try to move in the opposite direction, the right side is now actually asking for a national plan. But when it's said: this is an important topic, nobody disagrees with it. It is very good in all sorts of ways that we now have a government that has taken offensive hold of this and will work even more offensively with it. We also have some school owners, county councils, out there who have been running this for a while – honor be – and they report back that this is good, this is important. What I've been given the impression is that it's not that hard to get the teachers out, maybe with the exception of construction, because there are many small companies that often have short-term projects, and it's hard to accept the teachers in a good way. It's been a little harder to get people in – to take that dimension too – so we want the teachers out, but we also want people from business into the school room and meet the students. There may be several reasons, but something goes on that it may be a little daunting to meet this youth boy. It could be viewed as a bit of a tough challenge. But the county councils that have notified me back have said that especially the last is so positive. Then you don't just get a person from business to meet the students, you get in many ways with your whole business at the same time. And getting close to that company is so positive. In the next round, it's easier to get the students out again. It may be linked, for example: to the subject project for immersion, but of course it may also be linked to getting an apprenticeship. I know that at least one of the county councils – I'm not going to mention its name – is now thinking about a scheme that you're trying to connect it with the fact that programme teachers are going to a company, with just a project for immersion, so that the student and the teacher go out to the company together and get a good experience out there. We know that when the student is out, sometimes the teacher should step in and hear how it goes, and so on, not entirely let go of his student during that period. This is important, but it will work even more when the teacher is out and gets this hospitation while the student is out. Then this will work even better. They get a common experience out there, they get a common experience that they can bring back later. An even closer link between the school and the learning environment within the classroom and the enterprise or enterprises that are delighted to have the teacher and student visited, and which in the next round are given the opportunity to enter the classroom and take their experience and competence into the educational situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e285	It's been established many times before, including in this debate, that the teacher is the most important factor in learning. This is true at all stages and for all educational programmes, but we have, as the proposal also points out, an additional challenge for professional study programmes, where the drop-out rate is highest among students. School-business cooperation has long been an important issue for the Centre Party. There's a point in itself that the schools are playing along with the community around. It is important for students to be familiar with different professions and to make teaching exciting and relevant, and it is important not least that the teachers in the programme subjects are up-to-date in the subject in which they are to teach. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State has such an offensive approach to the question. In the follow-up to the Education Line, the possibilities of hospitation shall be considered. HSH has a recording that's being further worked on. It also assesses the integration of a hospitation scheme into the system of continuing education and training, as well as the commitment to developing the skills of teachers and trainers in vocational and vocational training as part of the New GIV. Therefore, there is much to say that hospitation can be an important part of the quality development work in higher education in the future. For the Centre Party, strengthening the quality of teaching is a priority. It does not help with more teachers and more hours if the quality of education is not improved. The adjustment now made to curricula is also an important measure. Finally, it's strange to observe the opposition's belief that plans solve all the world's problems. Recently, we are discussing a proposal for a plan to step up continuing education and training, and today we have a proposal to deal with a national competence development plan for programme teachers in secondary school. My experience as a local and state politician is that the number of plans is not a good target of political will, and that we are voting against the proposal is not about our being against the intention, namely to make vocational training better and more relevant, but it is therefore that different models of hostilities are actively followed up in the future by the measures I had in mind in the past. There is also a point, as the representative Hagen also pointed out, that today school owners are free to make arrangements for this – many work well with this already today – where good local solutions can be found that benefit both school and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e296	It is a great strength for the incredibly important job we are doing to ensure that we get rid of high-level education and implementation, but also to recruit more people to make professional choices – we know that we are going to have a great need for more skilled professionals in the future, and that we are very vulnerable if Swedes and Poles are going to go home again – that there is so broad political consensus and interest and impatience that we are going to get good solutions and good results. In St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, which is called the Education Line, the opportunities for accommodation and exchange of staff between school and working life are referred to as a good tool for the development of skills. Hospitation schemes and exchanges of staff between school and working life can both contribute to promoting cooperation between school and business and provide the necessary skills for the professionals in vocational and vocational training. On the other hand, this may be an action as part of continuing training and enhancing the skills of professionals and professionals. Both in terms of the competence of professional trainers and the competence of instructors, cooperation on a hospice system can be a good way to achieve this. In the Fafos report ‘Development of competences through hospitation. On the basis of a housing scheme for teachers and construction instructors’, it appears that the basic attitude of school and company accommodation schemes is positive and that teachers who have participated in accommodation schemes believe that they have had a good professional benefit. The study shows that the scheme is poorly tested and bears little impact on systematics. The report is based on studies in one programme area, building and civil engineering, in higher education, but feedback from central professional organisations may indicate that this also applies to other disciplines. Among other things, HSH, a number of which have been involved, has asked for the introduction of hostilities for teachers in the business world. The Directorate has assessed the input from the HSH and Fafos reports. On this basis, I have asked the Education Directorate to start testing hospitation schemes in which especially professional and professional supervisors in the company cooperate in enhancing their skills. It's set at 2.5 million. kr i 2010 for this test. The county councils are invited to seek support for the development of models and testing of accommodation schemes, so that we can gain experience with different schemes. I intend to continue this initiative in 2011 and evaluate it in 2012, so that we can see how we can move on and develop this. I think it's a great value if we can now get a little bit of different models and different experiences, as well as the work that many county councils are already doing in terms of hosting arrangements. This is the way that is also at the heart of our work with the New GIV – a close cooperation with the states to look at the different actions that we can take and that have a good impact. As part of the New GIV initiative, the Ministry of Knowledge will also contribute to improving the professional correction of particularly common subjects in higher education. It is essential that we be able to do this, not only because it is of great importance to the motivation that it is relevant, but it is also important for the skills that the apprentices should have as a basis when going out into businesses. The aim of the testing of hospitation systems is to develop and test different models and hospitation organisation that may be part of a comprehensive follow-up course. It is important that we now manage to get all the activities we carry out, all these trials and experiences, into the strategy for continuing education and training, so that it becomes a permanent system. Systematics and long-term thinking around this is important. This could be done, for example, by: are concerned with obtaining professional updates in their own field, professional insights into other subjects in the field of the programme and/or establishment and development of professional networks. I can see that my time is running out -- I could have talked about this for a very long time. But I have a call to join the proposers, the opposition: if the opposition wants to submit this proposal, I want to continue working on its intentions. We are in the process, and I perceive that there is a broad political consensus in the Storting on how important this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e315	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e318	I allow myself some comments. I very much agree with Mette Hanekamhaug, who pointed out that having more practical subjects does not have anything to do with any special education or organization for weak students. I think all the students, and the subjects themselves, will benefit from a concreteization of the subjects that make them more comprehensible, and that it can also motivate more efforts in some of the subjects that too many students today show themselves as difficult to access. Then I would like to say to the representative Truls Wickholm that I do not disagree with the fact that the general practitioners too would like to have a hospitation scheme, but one place you have to start. Today we don't have any systematics and no arrangements that guarantee the programme trainers, who have actually had a professional anchor at some point in time. I think that's where we're going to start, and then we're also going to make it possible for a high-level education where the programme teachers and the general practitioners can work together more closely on the content of the common subjects, so that they can become more accessible and easier for the students to identify themselves with. The purpose of the hospitation scheme is to provide a school that is better in time, both in terms of the needs of the workplace and in terms of the everyday life of the students. So it is not like that, Aksel Hagen, that the proposal involves a huge new national plan. I do not know what kind of ‘plan feet’ several of the representatives have stood up to today, but we are talking about a sub-strategy of the strategy we have, called Quality Competence, which is about continuing training for Norwegian teachers? I understand that the Council of State was also involved when she thought that this could be part of the arrangement, and that it is where you want to anchor this. So these aren't new five-year plans, either in one sense or another, but it's about putting things a little bit into system. The councils themselves were concerned that there is little widespread hospitation, and there is little systemicity. Although there are some good local examples, there are a lot of students who meet teachers who do not have the opportunity to visit and who may not get as engaged and up-to-date teachers as they would like. So the background to the matter is on today's business map, is that we want a system that embraces all schools and all states. Therefore, the matter should be given the greatest attention. [[The fire alarm goes off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e330	We'll stop the Storting meeting for a while. Everyone asks to leave the building as soon as possible. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. Tenty-four. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. Ten, forty-nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e339	The first speaker is Mette Hanekamhaug, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e342	Some have pointed out that the plan itself is a problem. But I just think it's important to put in place a plan, because you haven't established good enough structures without this one. I think it is funny that the representative Hagen polemised a little about that it was the right-hand side that wanted plans. Then I can throw the ball back and say that I think it is also a bit exciting that it was the representative Hagen who talked the most about the importance of connecting the private business to the school again. It just shows that we have a lot of common visions about school. Furthermore, the representative Rindal pointed out that very many states have good arrangements and are already working on this. We know that, and that's good. But the problem is, as the Minister of Knowledge also pointed out in his speech, that they are still not widely used. That's why you want to work more on it. But I think it's been a very good debate. Very much positive has emerged. I think what the minister is presenting here in relation to the proposal is very positive. I think what the minister points out about getting experience from different ways of implementing different models in different states is very good. That's a very good idea. I think it will help to create good plans in the longer term for how we can make it adaptable in the system – for teachers, for business and for individual municipalities and counties. I experience a great deal of consensus about the intention behind the proposal. In the light of what has emerged, both in the Minister's reply earlier in the course of the case and here in the debate, I ask the President to submit the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e355	The representative, Mr Hanekamhaug, then proposed that the proposal of the Party of Advances, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left be forwarded to the government without any support for reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e358	I am pleased that that proposal is being submitted, and then we continue to work on the strategies for how we can put this in place – reaping experience and sharing experience – in order to get the best possible system. I just had some comments on what has been taken up by several debaters, which are about how to look at the relationship between practice and theory. For my opinion, you can work with theory in a practical way, that there are many ways in. There is also a need for good theoretical knowledge in the professions. Many of these subjects are developing very rapidly, and it is very important that you do not just dampen the understanding of how complex and demanding they can be, and it is also linked to the status of the professions. But the entrance to theory doesn't have to be academic, it can be practical. What is crucial in the field of vocational training is that we are able to professionally target both the common subjects and the programme subjects, make them relevant and link the theory that there is a need – including in the field of vocational training – to what is the motivation of the students and the performance of the task and occupations themselves. But as many have been involved, there is a great development in this area as well. The letter you will receive in 2010 will have to be filled in all the time, and of course it is also the case that the teachers of the new trade union workers will have to be filled all the time, because the professions are developing so quickly. So in these words I am ready to follow up on the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e370	That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e373	I am very pleased that the representative of Aspaker agrees that it is important to also look at the teachers in general. I think it might be particularly important – perhaps also in view of what the Council of State was about to do at the end – to get good practical insights into theoretical knowledge. When you get into school that teaches with purely theoretical academic background, I think it must be very useful to get that kind of hospitation scheme for these teachers. And to my point again, I think this work and coordination work are best done by the government. I don't get so impressed when Aspaker says we have to start somewhere. It becomes a bit too random to approach education policy for my part. But I'm also very happy that everyone now seems to have an agreement that it's important with a good theoretical basis for practical subjects, but that the challenge is to find the practical entrances to the theoretical.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e380	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e396	President, I see I've got half an hour of speaking time. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e401	Yes, the representative has up to half an hour of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e404	I would just like to say very briefly in the beginning that voluntary action, done, is a noble mark of Norwegian society. Safe, inclusive communities depend on many of these people who contribute voluntarily every day, and the interaction between volunteering and the public sector — the community there — makes us more reach many of the goals we have across party boundaries in Norway than without voluntary efforts. The issue raised in this proposal for a representative deals with one part of how we can build up under voluntary efforts in Norway – the so-called gift-deduction scheme. Last year, the scheme gave close to 2 billion. kr in gift receipts to the 475 organisations covered by the scheme, representing about one quarter of their revenues. So there's a lot of money we're talking about here. Before Christmas last year, we received some ominous information from the ESA Authority that the Norwegian scheme of deduction for voluntary gifts could be contrary to the EEA Agreement. The way I evaluated it, at least then, we were facing some choices. Either we could wind up today's scheme and replace it with a grant-based scheme, that was one possibility, or that one had to consider extending the scheme to organisations throughout the EEA area. The matter was a major debate, and there was an extensive dialogue for several months between the government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, on the one hand, and the voluntary sector, which was represented by the Freedom Norway, the Norwegian Sports Association, the Olympic and Paralympic Committee, etc. Before the government had concluded on the occasion of the case, this representative proposal was promoted. But before the setting was given, the government had given its response, among other things. on questions from the undersigned concerning what they intended to do on the occasion of the case. And in the 2011 state budget, there is a proposal that the government should extend the entire gift-deduction scheme in line with what ESA requested from the Norwegian authorities. That is why the matter has been resolved happily, and that is why it is also a unanimous committee that joins the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e411	As Micaelsen's representative said, non-governmental organisations are a very important part of Norwegian society, and for the Central Party it is very important to continue the tradition and efforts there. We also see that it works well as part of the active integration policy that many communities have. What is at issue here today is the relationship between the tax deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations and the EEA Agreement. At the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, it was clarified that the EEA Agreement should not function in such a way that it would require us to change our taxes and taxes – the tax policy was outside the EEA Agreement. But we see that the EEA Agreement, as was said by the EEA's opponents at the time, is a dynamic agreement that is developing so that it enters into ever-new areas. So now it's in the area of the issue of our tax deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations is legal under the agreement. As the representative, Mr Mikalsen, said, it is stated by the monitoring body, ESA, that our system could be contrary to the EEA Agreement. So one came into a discussion about what to do. The center part takes note of the extension that we're now going into. However, we should be aware that what we are now talking about is giving tax credits for gifts to non-governmental organisations that hold completely different places from Norwegian society and that are to stimulate non-governmental organisations in other countries, which, as has been said, does not have the positive effect on community development and volunteer labour that was the whole intention of the scheme when it was introduced. This will lead to – I am reasonably sure – a number of discussions on the value of organisations in this area in the future. There are likely to be a number of examples of organisations that consider themselves entitled to do so, and/or organisations that carry out work as there is a significant level of conflict in the Norwegian political environment if it is appropriate to stimulate tax incentives. So we're moving over to an area that in the future is likely to create more discussion. Conclusion: the Central Party accepts that the EEA Agreement is such that the Government has taken a decision to extend the scheme beyond its original intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e422	This is a system that is close to the heart of the Christian People's Party, and which we have run forward in government and here in the house, with some resistance from other parties at times. But the scheme itself has now received general agreement, and we are pleased about that. As the rapporteur said, there were actually two choices when ESA joined: should we scrap the system altogether – then all were treated equally; all were treated equally poorly, to put it another way – or should we extend the system to organisations that are also in the EEA area, and to persons who give to these organisations, benefit from this tax deduction? I am very pleased that the government has ended up lately. There are some control challenges, I see, but I think the majority of those who will give, after all, will deal with organizations that have a party here in the country. So I don't think one should problem it too much until we might actually see in practice that this creates problems. Why is it important that non-governmental organisations have this possibility of getting more money because of people giving money and giving more money when they receive tax deductions? It's because this is free money for the organizations. In a situation where many of the voluntary organisations experience that very many of their public resources are being tied up to projects and that they are almost becoming a public support wheel, it is very important that this scheme exists, which gives organisations free resources to use on the organisations for which they were intended. We are satisfied with this. Then I have to advance the budgetary procedure a little bit and say that we are not satisfied that the government is proposing a reduction in the system by removing it for individual organisations that do not have a national superstructure. This means that many different organisations and associations that are single and stand alone are now losing the opportunity. We have to say that is a disappointing proposal that has come from the government, and I hope we can do something in the budget. We recommend the setting, and then we take a new round on the last one at the next intersection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e435	I'm also going to stay good within the 30 minutes. I think it is good to note that the EFTA decision that the gift-deduction scheme was contrary to the EEA Regulation created considerable uncertainty in the voluntary sector. We all know that the voluntary sector is very important in Norwegian society. They do a phenomenal job in a number of areas, in sports, care, poverty — in most areas. One could actually have been careful about the uncertainty by having gone out a lot earlier that the scheme should have been changed. That is why this proposal for a representative was put forward. We are very pleased that it has been resolved in the state budget now, and that the uncertainty has been put on ice. We also agree with the previous speakers that something has to be done about not just national organisations, but that round we get to take when the government budget is being treated, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e444	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e460	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e469	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I have tried to get a majority in the Committee as far as possible in this matter. It seems to me that it was reasonably close to being made, because the majority is involved in most of the formulations. The case has its background in an example of the representatives of the Progress Party: that members of a seafarer’s organisation who are not members of one of the main associations are not granted the right of deduction in the declaration for their union quota. In their view, it has updated a case of non-discrimination between all types of trade union quotas, irrespective of current tax deduction requirements, in the Tax Act and the Department of Finance exemption practices. The majority of the Committee points out that the Ministry of Finance claims that the central objective of the right to deduct is to reduce the costs of organising and encouraging an organised working life for workers. It agrees with the right very much and has added it as a separate note in the setting. The Ministry of Finance also indicates that employers have a corresponding right of deduction for membership of the employers’ organisations. These are schemes well used by employers’ organisations. For technical purposes, the starting point of the tax law is § 6-20, which states that the membership quota for national employee organisations is deductible, up to a given amount, which currently amounts to NOK 3660 per person. years. The scheme is, of course, limited to those in paid employment and therefore does not apply to students and pensioners. A deduction shall be made from the quota to national employee organisations which have the right to negotiate under the law on public service disputes or which have concluded collective agreements on behalf of their members. The political disagreement arises because the ministry has the opportunity to negotiate exemptions from associations which are not part of a nationwide association. It has been my intention as rapporteur of the case to contribute to the further follow-up of the case in the Ministry of Finance. I therefore take up here and now again the proposal from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which was an invitation to the Minister of Finance and to the Red-Green parties on the Stortinget to have, for the first time in a long time, a case about the principle of freedom of organisation, trade union membership, the tax principle there, in the Stortinget for a principleal treatment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote its own case with a review and evaluation of the rules on deductibility by the equation for the costs of the union quota.’ The right is concerned with facilitating the functioning of the labour market in which there is an orderly relationship between workers and employers. In government budgets, opposition and position show different ways of prioritising the rate of deduction. From the Right, we would say that we accept that the right of deduction is a point, because it contributes to better organisation of the labour market, professionalisation of it, and that's what all parties deserve. We believe it is a problem that some of the trade unions currently operating, which are not members of a main association, are not allowed to enter because the department has a relatively strict interpretation of the legislation. Another thought is that if there is internal disagreement in a trade union where there are outlaws, but where the outlaws naturally cannot become members of a country association of trade unions because they are a competitor, that association will not be able to obtain the right to deduct. It actually writes the department straight out in the case. Then there is a movement towards freedom of organisation, freedom of membership and the use of economic instruments. I had believed that the red-green representatives at Stortinget were more concerned with the principle and not just with the main associations, such as. LO's point of view there. We also did not receive any input from the main associations to the case when we had it for consultation. This is the point of motion for a resolution. 1 busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e498	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e501	As the rapporteur said, the majority of the committee – all except the Progress Party – has a very similar view of the importance of facilitating a well-functioning labour market with orderly conditions. The same majority also believe that there is an advantage to a high proportion of trade unions in the labour market. I am very pleased that this vision has broad support. It is, in my opinion, an important pillar of our society and the development of our society that we have a good upshot on the trade unions. Over time, it has been shown that when good relations are established between the social partners and the authorities, society regains it through a stable and predictable development. This is achieved through a great deal of trust in the main associations. At these times, all the Committees on the Budget carry out consultations on the budget, and here the main associations play a major role in providing feedback on the broad lines of the budget and views on individual elements relevant to working life. Now this isn't just my vision or our vision – no, this party collaboration gets attention far beyond our limits. At a meeting of the Nordic Council last year, researchers told us that there was an interest in these elements in our Norwegian – or Nordic – model also in Asia. There come people in buckets and buckets to learn more about this, it was said by the researchers. I am convinced that this part of our social model contributes significantly to a stable and fairer development that will allow for much more in the labour market and ensure that the labour market functions in accordance with the standards and rules developed jointly by the parties and the authorities. Of course, an important element in the high level of trade unionisation is the right to deduct from the quota. We promised in 2005 that we would double the trade union deduction during our first majorization period. We have. The limit of the deductible amount has increased from NOK 1800 to NOK 3600 – i.e. NOK 450 each year. And with effect from the income year 2010, the amount limit has also been adjusted in line with the estimated price increase from NOK 3600 to NOK 3660. Here we owe it to note that this amount was cut off by the previous government, and one of the many expectations of the organisations was that it should be raised again when the red-green parties took over in 2005. The right to deduct is an important element in the organisation or, as it stands, as the Advocate-General pointed out, the right to deduct is a tool for having a high proportion of trade-union organisations. But I would like to stress that organizing is not just about tariffs and better rights in the labour market. At least that is not how I perceive the policy and strategy of the nation-wide organisations. This is, of course, evidenced by the hearings held by the Committee, where they have views far beyond this. These organisations have several roles. Of course, they should be primarily a collective organisation, but they are also a social officer, and not least they have shown that they take responsibility for putting their requirements into action. In this, it is an important element to be able to look beyond the demands and expectations of individual members to take on greater social responsibility. As a result, there is commitment to cooperation. An example of this is the option of solidarity. This was an obliging cooperation that also contained tough demands from the organisations, but it resulted in us getting through a tough time without serious unemployment and unrest in the workplace. The Minister of Finance, in his reply to the Committee on this matter, has also referred to the organisations' call for moderation in wage negotiations during the financial crisis last year. What the organisations know is that one of the results of this is that in the last period, purchasing power has been significantly improved by keeping interest rates low and inflation as well – to mention something. This is one of the reasons why I think it would be difficult to distinguish between those who are going to have the right to deduct, and those who are not going to have it, if we remove the starting point for joining a country-wide employee organisation. Over the years, professional organisations have been established to cover most professional groups. The Minister of Finance has stated in his reply to the Committee that, if a new professional organisation is to be set up which cannot be associated with such a nationwide organisation, there may be grounds for granting exemptions from the requirement for such an association. Against this background, we believe that today's legislation is good enough with regard to the right of deduction for trade union quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e522	The proposal we are now considering should have been accepted by all parties. Rarely have the arguments against supporting a progress party proposal been more fundamental than today. Yes to tax equal treatment of membership quotas in trade unions – chew on it a little, representatives of the Norwegian Labour Party. That's what you're choosing to vote for today. The red-green arguments in their party speeches that membership of trade unions strengthens the rights of employees, but they say nothing about the fact that only membership of certain selected trade unions strengthens these rights. But in today's setting, they're just saying this, as the representative Opheim also said from the pulpit. So much for the so-called solidarity! The other opposition parties are back in old, classical, double opposition policy – in opposition to the government and in opposition to the largest opposition party. There should have been no need in this matter. This case is based on an enquiry from the Joint Union for Seafarers, i.e. not so-called worthy workers, according to the government parties. The more we went into matter, the more surprised we were. In fact, we thought that today's law was due to an incurrence – honestly – and we have told the whole story through the proposal. Didn't you also in the hall be surprised at what the law actually says? Did you realize that tax discrimination was practiced depending on the trade union membership? Did you realize that you had to join a main association, which means giving your political support to the Workers' Party, in order to benefit from tax deductions from the union quota? Did you realize that the law requires a monopoly of opinion? Did you realize that one of the conditions for tax equal treatment is that the trade union assumes some social responsibility in addition to the interests of its members? Yes, we all know that trade union leaders are engaged in all kinds of political issues, including those that are not about the pay and employment of members. In particular, foreign policy is popular: No to the United States, boycott of Israel, nuclear-free zone both here and there, no to Statoil's oil-sand project in Canada, the distinction between state and church and all these other matters in which the government parties and perhaps the other parties in the hall here believe that trade unions should show an commitment. But did you know that such so-called social responsibility is a condition for obtaining tax credits for the membership quotas? That's what the law says. Did you realize that the government's definition of social responsibility includes the union's call for moderation in wage negotiations? Were the SV's representatives aware of this? Are the trade union members themselves aware that excessive wage demands can lead to the elimination of the tax deduction? And who will evaluate where such a limit goes? Did you realize that the government doesn't want competing trade unions? Because then, according to the Ministry of Finance, ‘a risk that competing organisations may in the long term lead to a trend towards a greater focus on members’ isolated short-term interests, at the expense of a more long-term and societal perspective’. Now what would that mean? Such conditions of fiscal non-discrimination are not worth Norwegian work. In fact, the party of progress believes that all the parties in this room actually share such a view. Then the parties should get together, and not vote against anything they are in favour of, or ask for further investigations of what they already have sufficient knowledge of. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party. And we support the subsidized proposal of the other opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e544	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to. He also stated that they would give their subsidiary support to the proposal raised by the representative, Mr Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e547	If it is such that there is a cross-political consensus in the Chamber today that trade unions are important and that trade unions are something we want more of and no less of, it is a good thing that we have in plenary today. This is one of the core and main elements of what we like to call the Nordic model of society, precisely this tripartite cooperation. It's been well underlined by several people here. It is such that this model is currently being honoured from the outside. We still get visits – if not exactly I saw at least others sitting in the hall here – from people from the outside who just want to learn more about this cooperation. This is something one will have more of and not less of. At the same time – and tragically so – they come from countries and environments where trade unionism is now being shattered in many ways, where this cooperation is being built up in practice. Honor be those who at the same time see that this is something an ideal set should have had more of and not less of. It is very good that we have a Norwegian right-hand side that does not belong to those who want a reduction in the trade movement, but want more of it. So far – very good. So it's essential that a person develop this collaboration further and see what is at the heart of it, there are some punctuations that one must bring with it. It is the keyword ‘landwide’ and it is the keyword ‘principal association’. The core of this cooperation is that some of the most important and overarching fundamental debates and some of the most important issues that need to be clarified between the three parties and on which they need to find a solution can only take place at national level. This is where the main clarifications must and must be made in terms of wages, working conditions, social dumping discussions in order to prevent them, etc. Then it's not an attack on the freedom of organisation when we red-green now emphasise that tax deductions will primarily be given to those who want to join organisations participating in these key clarifications, which just have to take place at national level. It is at the level we can take care of and further develop the Nordic welfare model. It's just our main organizations that can play that role. Honors are others who have to show up and contribute to more diversity, but if we are to further develop the Nordic welfare model, we need to strengthen the opportunities of the big organizations more than weaken them, as suggested by the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e560	The Contracting Party proposes that all trade unions be granted, on a uniform basis, tax deductions from the trade union quota. It is likely that the Progress Party wants to show up as a real supporter of trade organisation, and that is nice. I want to go to work thoroughly. The tax law § 6-20 – the deductible quota, currently NOK 3660 per year – is the theme. The scheme is limited to the quota of national employee organisations which have the right to negotiate under the law on public service disputes or have entered into collective agreements on behalf of the members. The Ministry may decide that the quota for individual organisations may be deducted from the sea if the organisation concerned does not have a national tariff agreement. The quota for employee organisations established after 1 July 1977 may only be required to be deducted when the organisation is connected to a main association. The extent to which we are to benefit from a deduction from a trade union quota can be argued. When we have that and there is a broad upsurge about it, it is clear that we need to strengthen the trade union movement, both to make it cheaper for individuals to organise themselves and – to put it another way – to strengthen the economy of that trade union by getting more members. The point of today's debate is the question of whether the requirement of membership of a main association is a reasonable requirement. What comes from the opposition is not a position – it's just a desire to investigate and evaluate this. Among the parts that are part of the opposition, we know that there are different views. The lot left has repeatedly been deducted from the union quota in this room. What is the great advantage of Norway's nation-state is the egalitarian relationship: its economic, social and cultural balances. They are constantly being tested through the EEA Agreement, which is based on the free flow of labour, capital, goods and services, giving us a strong turn towards a different society rather than a community. Norwegian egalitarian society has some key characteristics that contribute to this. Among other things, we have the ownership of agricultural land in Norway is related to persons and only persons, i.e. not companies, and to the persons who own it is related to property rights and related property obligations. We have tax rules that ensure that we in Norway have a much larger share of people who own their own houses than in the rest of Europe. It is special for Norway and contributes to fair conditions. We have very tidy conditions on the labour market in strong trade unions, which have rights and obligations. There are obligations and rules for professional organisations for the use of their main instrument, namely striker rights. So the question is, should a tax deduction be granted for quota to new professional organisations? In principle, it has to be a maritime opening for it. This does not, however, apply to the issue of freedom of organisation. Freedom of organisation is something that is completely independent of how we treat it taxably. That's beyond what we're talking about right now. I would like to say this: if established trade unions are to strengthen or become spokespersons for specific political parties, new trade unions will be needed to represent the professional groups and thus create the necessary balance of power in the working and business life. The alternative to new trade unions is to reform existing trade unions, which I know very well from Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams. A trade union was reformed, so there was no need for a new trade union. So there's one way to do it. But, as a matter of principle, the situation may arise that existing trade unions are so rigid, so in spite of the job they are going to do, that there is a need to establish new ones. In that case, I expect it will be taken care of. Finally, the party of progress is the leading anti-union party, as in other cases. Contradict national tariff agreements, which are a very central part of the Norwegian tradition in order to ensure a level playing field in economic conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e586	This is an important debate. What is the starting point of the government’s view here is that it is right and reasonable that workers are encouraged to organise themselves also by the fact that there is an opportunity to deduct from the union quota. In this way, encouraging us to get an organized working life is good for Norway. We have seen this on many occasions, and the community has earned that we have good and orderly conditions in Norwegian working life. I don't need to elaborate on it any more. In order to provide for a certain degree of transparency and predictability of the social partners, certain conditions have been laid down for this right of deduction. This applies to professional organisations established after 1 July 1977 and the condition is that they are members of a main association. And then, as it has been pointed out in the debate, there is an opportunity for the ministry to grant a derogation or to agree that the membership quota can be made deductible without such a connection to a main organisation. An important starting point for the ministry in assessing this is, of course, — there is no need to conceal it — that once one has made this requirement for a main association, it is because, as we have seen on several occasions, main associations have shown very much social responsibility through wage formation and working conditions negotiations. As the representative Hagen said, this is an interesting debate now in the way that one could imagine parliaments in other countries where there was a completely different discussion about the relationship with trade unions and trade unions. But here there is a broad consensus in the Chamber that having good and strong trade unions and corresponding sensible and good employers’ organisations is a strength for the Norwegian economy and for the Norwegian People’s Government, including a broad consensus that there should be a system of deduction for that type of quota. So it's like the committee's divided into three sections. It's a large majority, a slightly larger minority and a slightly smaller minority, i.e. three parts. I see that there is not very much distance between the large majority and the slightly larger minority, which was also stated by the case-rapporteur here. I have nothing against it, for example. in the context of the presentation of the 2012 State Budget, to make a slightly broader assessment and review of this mechanism, of course in relation to the amount of the deduction, because it is natural that it is when it is being discussed, i.e. in budgetary terms. There are different perceptions in the Storting about the size of the deduction, but as I said: I have nothing against doing a slightly broader assessment of the scheme, e.g. in the context of the 2012 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e599	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e603	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for taking a broader look. It sounds positive. We have been given an answer to the proceeds – to the question of those who are then excluded – and his own department estimates that it is 4 or 5 million. NOK, so it's not that much money. That's the principle of non-discrimination. Trade union leaders are very concerned about engaging in all kinds of policy issues, including non-employment and pay issues, as the Minister of Finance also says in his reply to the Committee. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is natural for trade union leaders to engage in issues such as the boycott of Israel, critical attitudes towards the United States' warfare in Iraq and the distinction between state and church, in which LO leader Flöthen has engaged? Does he think it's natural, and does it involve taking a social responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e612	There are many fundamental rights in Norwegian society, and two of the most fundamental rights are freedom of expression and the right to organise, and the two are also well associated. Of course, both trade union leaders and others are allowed to have views on many issues and participate in the ongoing social debate. I think that's very good and nice. With regard to the very concept of ‘principal association’, I believe that this is a fairly transparent concept, and I believe that having arrangements to ensure that you get the best organized working life is a good thing. The fact that there are trade unions that take social responsibility is also important, as I was in my post. So I don't see that there's any contradiction between the practice of the law on which the Ministry of Finance has committed itself, and the fact that trade union leaders have a right to speak, and to a certain extent a voice, in the general debate on society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e619	The Ministry writes in a letter to the Financial Committee and also in a letter to the Joint Union for Seafarers that the Stortinget has not yet given any guidance or views on this matter, and that it does not have any reference to it. There is some background to the proposal that I have made on behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, so worded that it is actually an invitation to the Ministry of Finance and to the Red-Greens on the Stortinget to ensure that there is an uprising in the Stortinget that a well-organized working life is good. I think that's worth it to others, too, and is an opportunity for the government to design the case and premise for it in a matter of its own, and not as part of a budgetary matter. In addition, it had – I think – been pleasant about the government for cosmetic reasons occasionally entered into the reality of proposals promoted by the Storting, at least when they are as well founded as in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e628	As I said in my post, I have nothing against making such an assessment as the representative Mr. Kambe asks for. I think it is best in budgetary terms, but another possibility is to come back to an assessment in the context of the revised national budget, so that a person gets a discussion. What I see as important in today's debate is that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that there should be a right of deduction for trade union quotas. And there is a broad consensus that a well-organised working life is important and sensible, where organisations both on the labour market and on the employers' side take on broad social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e635	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e640	I just want to underline what the representative Torfinn Opheim said in his very good speech. Good relations between the social partners and the authorities are important. It helps to create a stable and predictable development in our society. We can see that from the social model we have today. The main associations have great confidence in our system, and party cooperation has received a lot of attention far beyond our borders. The representative, Torfinn Opheim, was also involved in the solidarity option, among others. So if we cut back a little bit of time and look at what we've been doing in this country, the solidarity option was put in place, which was incredibly important. It was obligatory cooperation, and it was absolutely necessary at the time, when you looked at the situation, as he said. I believe and believe that what the Progress Party wants with its proposal – that is what they stand for, and that must be respected – but what the trade unions must also look at is to weaken the trade movement. If you get such an arrangement also for those associations around the workplace that I call so-called house associations, you actually want to weaken the main associations and weaken the system you have today. That is what they stand for, that is what the Progress Party wants. That's the situation, at least the way I interpret it. Such a proposal is promoted to weaken trade union movement, especially in the case of wage negotiations. It will soon be the case in the individual workplace that everyone has to go and negotiate for themselves. There will then be great differences in Norwegian working life. Norwegian society is not served by such a model, in my opinion. So little back to what to engage in. In large major associations, it is quite natural to engage in social issues; it should almost only be lacking. For the benefit of its members, we are committed to the various social problems and to the development that we want in this country. It's incredibly important to bring it with you. I want to have the model we have today, that more people want to join the main association, and that you have stable arrangements in this country. No other arrangements are served. This will be achieved through the policies of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e653	It is clear that the Progress Party has taken a very sore toe at the Workers' Party. And it doesn't help that workers' party representatives in this room run up to the pulpit and talk about workers' interests when they're not willing to treat them in a non-discriminatory manner. What this proposal is about is that it is believed that a worker in the Joint Union for Seafarers is as valuable as one who is in the LO or in another trade union. You say no to that. When my question is whether it is natural that the trade union leadership engages in social issues that do not affect employment at all or that do not affect remuneration at all, it is said that it is natural. The council said the same thing to me in a line. Yes, everyone can get involved in social issues, that's very good, but it's believed that being a trade union leader is an intrusive sport to engage in issues such as: is the boycott of Israel, no to warfare in Iraq or the distinction between state and church? Would it be thought that the NHO would go on the track and engage in these issues? No, then it would be rough! But the trade unions are like outside of this, they've gotten into the sidelines and think something about all sorts of weird things in society, no matter what kind of role they really have. That is what we are responding to. This proposal is supported by the fact that even those who do not support the type of activity that may not support the left-hand side of Norwegian policy, which may support the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, are given the opportunity to enjoy the same rights as other workers and to be as important as other workers. That is what this proposal is about. That's why I'm very surprised that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right couldn't help supporting the proposal, instead of making an artificial difference between the parties, because I think everyone agrees on this. Not least, the Labour Party should agree to this, and not apologise for the fact that it is a budgetary issue and difficult. In principle, one could have said, yes, we agree with this, we should make changes. Now the state council has given a signal about it. It's positive. However, this is a matter of equal treatment, of equal importance for all workers, and of the fact that certain groups that sympathise with the Workers' Party are not more important than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e664	I wasn't really going to ask for the floor, but the last speaker came up with criticism of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left because we have an alternative way of non-discrimination between trade unions, not least the members there, and it deserves an answer. If you read the case study, if you read our comments, you see that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left share the fundamental principle. We agree with the objective, and we point out that it is good for an organised working life. The reason why not the Right, to answer for our part, supports the proposals of the Progress Party, has something to do with the form of the proposal. It also has something to do with the content. Given that this is a matter that, at the end of the day, needs to embrace widely in order for us to get a solution, my mission on Stortinget is to contribute to majority solutions, even though we are in opposition this time. It also has something to do with how to conduct politics. I believe that if the Progress Party had also followed the procedure chosen by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in this case, the possibility of a compromise on the Storting would have been greater. That's why the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left actually made a whole thing out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e673	We agree on the freedom of organisation. Then there is a question of who is going to receive the tax subsidy that this scheme applies to. In my first post, I linked the right to the tax subsidy with the obligations to which it is a link throughout the Norwegian community. So you get a right, you get a duty at the same time. It's a problem that the Progress Party is not a hot follower of. That's one of the problems we have here. It is then tried by the Progress Party to argue along a line where existing trade unions are party policy tools. Yes, we've seen such examples. I referred to an example that I have a very close knowledge of. The trade unions associated with specific political parties do not do their job. They will over time be fragmented and weakened. It is essential that the leaders of professional organisations are the leaders of all members, regardless of the political parties they represent. We have very strong trade union leaders in the Norwegian trade union system who tell us where they stand in party politics, but they are loyal to their members. They promote the interests of their members through good organisational democracy and have strong growth because they act that way. It's a great trait that such union leaders have. I said the Progress Party is one of the most union hostile parties. I'm standing by it. When has the Progress Party spoken well about strong professional organisations – whether for employees, fishermen or farmers? I'll be carrying it and say, "rare." When has the Progress Party been talking about stronger trade unions for those who are poorly organized – for transport workers, for those who are now working in the sewage industry and collecting garbage, for those who are in the hotel and restaurant industries? Very rarely. I would like to see Tybring-Gjedde's representative go up and say here that we are now going to change our policies and go in for strong trade unions for those groups in the Norwegian community that need it, because otherwise we will have a situation with ever-increasing differences in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e686	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e702	It's a little different thing we're going to deal with now. There is a proposal for amendments to the Insurance Business Act which include an amended Chapter 12 of the Act. The proposal proposes rules on the business of a non-life insurance company, inter alia. it is proposed to continue the distinction between life insurance companies, non-life insurance companies and credit insurance companies. It is clarified that non-life insurance undertakings shall ensure that their agents comply with the information requirements of the insurance contract law to the insurance customer and that a prohibition is imposed on non-life insurance undertakings to market or offer insurance against criminal penalties if the insurance may be contrary to the legal order. In addition, rules on the premiums and scales of premiums by non-life insurance undertakings, detailed rules on non-life insurance technical reserves, proposals for the transparency and control of the risks associated with the company's activities by non-life insurance undertakings, it is proposed that one or more compensation schemes be established for the necessity insurance of private individuals and, finally, a proposal that the powers to lay down detailed rules on accounting and statement of account should be added to the Department and not to the Financial Supervisory Authority as at present. The Committee broadly supports the Ministry's proposal for amendments to the Insurance Business Act. However, I would like to link some comments to some of the changes that have been proposed, and would also suggest supplementing the legislative proposal § 12-2. It is positive that an obligation is proposed for companies to have scales of premiums for standardised products, so that as customers we can compare the offers of the different companies when choosing insurance companies. We have to be able to expect this to be designed in such a way that as customers we will be able to assess and compare the products better than we can today when we have to insure, for example. car and dwelling. The industry itself is in favour of publishing information on the Finanzportalen, a portal which is under development and which subsequently provides consumers with good help to understand the insurance products better than today and could therefore also choose the insurance that suits them best. For my part, I have to say that I have my full rent understanding what my various insurance policies contain, compared to what competitors can offer me, and I am pleased with the change that is now taking place. It is also positive that it is proposed that personal insurance against accidents, fire damage and other damage to property or assets, motor insurance and travel insurance be regarded as necessity insurance. This shall include and ensure that all are provided with the necessary insurance, for the benefit of both the individual and society. Today, too, legislation is such that it is necessary to refuse a person to take out compulsory insurance, but now there is a compensation scheme or pooling scheme in which all non-life insurance undertakings must participate and which further ensures that everyone is given the opportunity to take out compulsory insurance. This is a scheme which is in principle an innovation and which should therefore be laid down by law. The practical functioning of this compensation scheme will be laid down in a separate regulation. For many people, it would be of great importance that this scheme be designed in such a way that, for example: past claims for payment are not significant in the case of insurance, but there must be a material risk that is considered not to be insured in the future if one is not required to take out compulsory insurance. The Committee has also noted the objections of the FNO to the fact that companies purchasing the administration of their self-insurance schemes also have to take out insurance in the same company. The FNO believes that there are different conditions of competition, as foreign companies do not have similar requirements. In order to ensure a level playing field, the Committee therefore considers it appropriate to grant an exemption and therefore proposes to supplement the first paragraph of Section 12-2 of the bill with the following regulatory support: ‘The king may, by way of regulation, derogate from the condition set out in the first sentence.’ The Committee shall be consulted on the amendments proposed, except in one field. The Contracting Party has its own comment stating that they will not support a general prohibition on taking out insurance in order to cover any charges, fines, etc. imposed in the event of infringements of the law. The majority support the Ministry's assessment that it would be unfortunate if a non-life insurance company were granted a concession to operate in the form of insurance which could help to weaken the individual's motivation to comply with the laws and regulations of society. Then I have no more to add, and put the matter forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e732	The President took note of the comments made by the representative on Paragraphs 12 to 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e735	This is a big deal, and it's a big deal. I would like to start by thanking the President-in-Office for a good job and for a good account from the Chair. With one exception, the Progress Party ends up with the government's proposal for amendments to the insurance business law. These are schemes in which the customer pays to cover any fees, fines or other charges imposed in connection with infringements of the law – schemes that are largely applicable to shipping in several countries. Thus, the government is promoting proposals for a general ban on such activities, cf. Section 12-1, second paragraph of the legislative proposal. The Progress Party does not support such a general prohibition, as today’s arrangements operate in the light of those members’ views, and it should continue to be an opportunity for the customer to take out such insurance. I would ask that the vote be put to the vote so that we can vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e746	The President has taken note of the representative's request for voting arrangements, and it will be complied with. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e764	The reason why I take the floor in this case is that over the last few years, the Financial Committee has dealt with a number of tax agreements based on – in short, the Agreement. We shall now vote on an amendment to the Minutes of this Agreement. We're going to deal with nine tax matters that I expect will not be debated in, but I think it's worth taking the word for such an important change as we're doing now, and telling you a little about what this is really about. The agreement we have used so far dates from 1988, and it is a mutual administrative assistance agreement in tax matters. The Agreement shall contribute to the more effective fight against international tax evasion by those who have signed it. It has so far been reserved for the 54 countries that are members of the Council of Europe or the OECD – those that have been able to accede to the agreement we have so far used. The Agreement contributes to a legal basis for the exchange of information. It contributes to the simultaneous provision of tax surveys in several countries, to the provision of documents in other countries, and to the provision of assistance for the collection and enforcement of tax claims in other countries. It's about something more than just tax information, which gives you the impression. What is now new, and what this issue really is about, is that there has been an ever-increasing international focus on combating international tax evasion, and when the G20 countries met in London in 2009, they addressed this challenge and the need to have an international tool that would allow more people to participate in that fight. As a result of the focus of the G20 countries on this subject, the OECD and the Council of Europe have negotiated a protocol allowing the agreement we have used so far to open up to countries not members of the Council of Europe or the OECD to join it. What we are doing today is agreeing that the agreement will be a global tool for an important struggle that many more people have gradually become involved in. And that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e777	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e793	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e809	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e825	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e841	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e857	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e874	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e890	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e906	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e922	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e940	Every year, Norwegian defence calls about 10,000 young people into first-time service, and we all agree that several of these should come from the female population. About 8 000 of these complete 12 months of service. Of these, the defence needs approx. one third for further education and service in the home and abroad, and the Home Protection Agency needs about a year. Four thousand to his forces. The last group goes back to society, and should be good ambassadors for the Defense. 8 000, which is the best of the best from youth schools, is what defence has the ability to train, recruit for further service and influence to become the best ambassadors. We must also be aware that today there is a partial struggle to enter the defence service, while a few years ago there was a struggle to escape. The complaints clearly show this change in facts. That means that those who enter the ministry come with great expectations for the service that awaits them. Now when the girls get into a larger number, we also have to remember that they're inside voluntarily, and that they make even clearer demands on the defense than the guy. If we do not succeed in showing that the defence is the right choice, this will have very negative ringing effects. The question we should ask ourselves is whether the defense is able to handle this possibility properly enough. My answer to the question is unfortunately no. In the last ten years, there has been a lot of military training, and we have been through a big shift where two of the objectives have been increased quality assurance and increased civil accreditation, in line with St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001. The defence has put in place three study-pointing subjects in which parts of military education are adjusted and adapted so that they can be measured against civil higher education. This was to help ensure quality of teaching, and it was to give those who are in the first time on duty the opportunity to take the exams and bring their study credits as a bonus. The results have been discouraging since the first years of a new arrangement. The proportion going up to the exam is very low, and the ironing percentage is unfortunately very high. Also, as far as the pure military disciplines are concerned, there have been clearer demands for what the soldiers should be able to do in recent years. One result of this is that we have been able to read in the media when soldiers from different departments have failed to pass the final tests of service abroad due to lack of training and training in the first time. As for those who have passed, we can also ask the question whether they have learned what they should learn, well enough. When I have on several occasions visited our forces in Afghanistan and asked what is the biggest challenge for them, the answers are as clear every single time. There's a lack of shooting skills with your own handgun and a lack of knowledge of the material that's being operated on down there. Annually, the defense has entered the first time service approx. 1000 soldiers who perform different functions in support services. Very few of these receive more military education than those given in the recruitment schools. This means that after 12 months of service they are not qualified for further service in the Defence. It is in my opinion to waste with an important resource, and it is little motivating for the individual. The role of home security in the Norwegian defence is becoming increasingly important, not least when the Army gathers in the north and is primarily trained for further service abroad. In order to maintain today's strength structure, Home Protection is dependent on the introduction of personnel from the defence sectors. In St. prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, this is described as follows: ‘The changes in the operational structure result in the absence of the need for own six-month crew training for HV, as set out below. Chapter 6 and Chapter 8. The defence industries will be able to train and transfer specialists and other teams annually in a number that will meet the need to maintain the structure of the HV. The teams transferred will have a high-quality education in relation to the needs and requirements of the HV. The measure will therefore not affect the quality or volume of the HV’s operational structure.’;» As a result, the Home Guard's own crew training was completed, and the teams were then to be given from the defenses. The protection of the home now needs to be given approx. 4000 crews per year. The Inspector-General of the Heimevertet set up a group in the autumn of 2009, such as: had the following mandate: ‘Examine and recommend the requirements of the Home Protection System for the defence sectors and VPV in terms of quality, volume and geography in order to have sufficient qualified personnel added to the structure.’; [[command and privacy]] The study describes the minimum requirements that crew training should contain in order to allow a soldier to be apprehensive to the Home Office. The aim is that all soldiers performing the initial service in the defence sectors can be transferred to the Home Guard with a minimum of additional training. The Inspector-General of the Home Guard is now asking the Defence Staff to assess the introduction of basic military training for all the crews in the initial service, just to ensure the quality of the personnel transferred after the completion of the initial service. This is in itself a feedback that the condition today is not good enough, and that something has to be done. Initially, I was involved in the study score reform, which was introduced in the Defence. Let me immediately say that this is an important and correct measure both for quality assurance and for civil accreditation for those who spend one year in service to their country of origin. The challenges are, as I was faced with, that the scheme is not successful so far. The departments like it to a small extent – the soldiers get too poor education, very few take sad exams, and even fewer pass it. So what's the reason why we're where we are today? The answer is relatively simple. Of course, here, as in many other contexts, it's about budgetary resources, or the absence of them. At the time of the introduction of the scheme, there was no fresh means of implementing or implementing the new scheme. The old Adult Education Centre, now the Defence Competence and Education Centre, was given responsibility for teaching, and the Defence College started gradually to collect further and further training of instructors. All of this happened within the framework, and therefore it was not the amount of the bet that was necessary. That is why many officers today feel that they do not have the right competence to carry out the teaching. We also see that several of the Departments of Defence do not have facilities that facilitate the teaching of theory for larger groups. If we are to succeed in the reforms and transformations that are taking place in Defence, we are dependent on the government putting action behind its words. If we are to succeed in one of the biggest conversion processes in public Norway, we need to show that there is both a desire and a willingness to invest what is required – just in order for us to succeed. This also applies, to the greatest extent, to the conversion of military training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e987	The obligation to protect is a support bar in the Norwegian defence. It anchors the defense of society. This is how the reputation of the Defence is built, and a good reputation is not least important when it comes to recruitment. So these things are closely related. For each soldier, it is essential that first-time service be perceived as socially useful and meaningful and that efforts be valued. In this way, the protection obligation is given a good reputation and status. At the same time, we show the soldiers that we appreciate them and that their efforts are an important contribution to the Defence and Society. We're a lot of people who are concerned about this, and that's also why it's a short time since we debated the first time service after an interpellation from a party trap of Tage Pettersen. I believe that the most important thing we can give the soldiers is a most meaningful service, and that it feels to be qualified for later education and career, both military and civil. The study credits scheme is a significant contribution in this way. In order for the defence to have the greatest legitimacy and upliftment possible, it is essential that the defence reflects society. As a result, several women in the first-time service give higher status to the service and broader recognition. There's the questioner and I totally agree. Let me first give a status of what's been done in these areas until now, and how I perceive the situation. The Defence Trustee System conducts regular employee investigations among the soldiers. The 2008 study shows that 74,5 pst. is quite good or very good in the service. Only 3 pst. thrives quite badly or very badly. This tells me that most soldiers feel that they are getting a good first-time service. I am left with the same impression after visiting many departments as Minister of Defence. As I said, it's about a year. Ten thousand soldiers inside for duty. In some cases, soldiers have mentioned that they have not received enough training. However, this represents the exception rather than the rule. I believe that the soldiers are generally well educated. This is also heard in the context of foreign operations and after national and international exercises. This is good, especially in view of the fact that operational requirements have increased in recent years. The defence must be a priority. The army, for example, has priority training for foreign operations to optimise the preparation of soldiers destined for Afghanistan. This has led to a slightly lower level of practice and less ammunition for other departments at home. The priority is right, but we have to make sure that all departments have a satisfactory level of practice. That is why the government's draft budget for next year is aimed at more exercise and training and more money for ammunition. The session obligation for women is already in place. I was earlier in the fall of Hamar and looked at the new and improved session arrangements. There is an impressive job to get a better session offer for both women and men. However, Part 2 has been implemented this year only as a pilot project in a limited area, and therefore the action will not have a full impact until quality improvement becomes nationwide. The three subjects that provide study scores during the initial service were introduced in 2008. It was taken into account that the subjects were to be state-of-the-art for the soldiers, relevant to the service, and that they could easily be included in regular military training. The system consists of three subjects: the first is ethics and military power, the second is jus and military power, and the third is disciplined body, movement and energy. Soldiers may take examinations on a voluntary basis after completion of training. In total, they can get 15 study credits. I am not satisfied with the scheme as it works today. There are too few who sign up for the courses, and there are too few who pass the exam. The reason for this is probably complex. Since the scheme is voluntary for the soldiers, it is a challenge to motivate them to use it. At the same time, the Defense must facilitate the prioritisation of these courses by the soldiers in a hectic everyday life. At the time of the launch of the study credits scheme, nine posts were assigned to the field-achievement team to strengthen ethics training. Two lecturers were also employed at the Defence College to strengthen education. In addition, a course is conducted to enhance the competence of the instructors. It may also be mentioned that the scheme is in the process of being introduced at most command schools in the Defence. This will mean that we will soon be given more instructions that are well aware of the work, and these measures will help to develop the system in the right direction. Otherwise, the inspectors-general are working to improve the way in which the training is carried out. I can mention that the Maritime Defense is starting a test scheme with common and centralised training in the subject body, movement and energy. Let me then sketch what we're going to do with these things the next time. We aim to conduct a two-part session throughout the country over the next year. I hope and believe that this action will result in both getting more women into the initial service and getting more motivated soldiers in the service. In addition, I expect that we will have a significantly lower drop-out during the first time service. In order to strengthen the training in the Army, the Ministry of Defence has proposed adding 50 million. extra kr this year to acquire more ammunition. The budget proposal for next year outlines the development of a measurable qualification system for vulnerable first-time staff. This will also be important in order to ensure a high quality of military training. The government's 2011 defence budget proposal means that the Army will receive an actual reinforcement of 205,6 million. kr, compared to the current year. At least 25 million. kr shall be used to strengthen the manning of the Brigade in North Norway. In addition, additional funds are proposed for more ammunition for the Army, as mentioned above. As a result, soldiers will be given increased shooting training and training will be increased to a higher level. In the Maritime Defense Department, the total activity is proposed to continue at the same level next year. However, training is given priority to new types of vessels, at the expense of the others. For the Air Force, the training level is also proposed to be continued at the same level next year. The level of activity is considered to be consistently satisfactory in this area of defence. Next year, the Ministry of Defence will entrust the Defence with the task of further developing and prioritising the study score system, so that more people can actually complete the courses. Earlier this year, the representative Pettersen – then in his role as head of the Trustee System – sent a request to the Ministry to introduce 15 credits for new subjects. We are now assessing this request in cooperation with the Defence Agency. So far, my assessment is that we should make the present system work better before we possibly expand it. I have already mentioned, but would like to point out once again, that in an earlier interview this year, I have reviewed that the government is taking more action in different areas to raise the level of protection. It is essential that the data subjects are of high quality and that we ensure that each individual experiences first-time service as meaningful. These two things are closely related as mentioned. Protectives must be given appropriate competence, realistic training and personal development. This is why we are increasing the level of practice and training, the provision of sessions for women and men, and the further development of the study score system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1040	Let me first thank the Council of State for the answer and the angle of the answer, which I perceive both as a recognition that things are not good enough, and a desire to bet to get things better. As the Council of State had in mind, the government in the budget has increased the framework of the Army. The question, of course, is whether the framework is large enough after the increase that has taken place and whether it is focused on the challenges that are being discussed today. I spent a lot of time on the theoretical part of military training in my main post, but becoming a good soldier is about converting the theory into practical action, very often in demanding situations. That is why it is necessary to ensure that all those entering the first duty receive good basic training in all areas. The government must then be clear – as the Council of State has now taken up – that they will strengthen this field. They have strengthened, inter alia: the ammunition area of 50 MIU. kr for the current year, which is also a recognition of the urgency of the situation in 2010. The situation in 2009 and 2010 has been very difficult. Many soldiers are very rarely trained. The cut in terms of shooting for soldiers in one year is actually the same as I got to shoot in the course of one day the time I was in for the first time. I think most people understand that you don't become a good shooter by being allowed to shoot 120 sharp shots in a year. I hope the government sees the benefits and value of the soldiers we call for service, also gets the instruction they themselves expect, and not least that the education the defense itself needs is given to the soldiers. Obligation to protect costs, but it also gives us the opportunity to create a very good defence that many other countries do not have. But if this quality is to become a reality, it costs money, and that money the government has to be willing to grant. If the government is not willing to take this cost, it will not be very many years before the very good feedback we receive today for our soldiers' service abroad. Those who are out there today are actually a product of the defense that we've had a few years back, and we want this reputation to continue, it's incredibly important that we bet on the education of those who are in the first-time service here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1053	As I said many times earlier from this pulpit, the Norwegian defence is in transition, and we are now much better prepared to meet the objectives set out in the long-term plan for a modern response defense. So more than recognizing that what should not have been done is the work carried out in defence, as a result of a planned effort in which the aim has been to increase the operational strength through an even more efficient use of resources. With regard to the student credit scheme, I am committed to making visible that new measures take some time to function properly, and that it is therefore our aim to ensure that this scheme continues to improve, both by building competence at the command and in the training course, with a view to improving the provision of services to those in the first place in time. This government has systematically strengthened the Army. The army should therefore also practice more than it does in the current year next year. We strengthen training, and we also put more emphasis on ammunition, all in order to improve the quality of Norwegian defence – in the Army, and also to provide a better offer to those in the first place. As I understand some of the challenges, they have been linked both to getting a sufficient number of first-time servants to take an interest in and engage in this offer. At the same time, the offer has been designed in a way that has not been good enough. There have also been arrangements for reporting that may in themselves have contributed to a higher ironing rate than what actually actually mirrors the offer so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1064	The centre party is committed to having a defence anchored in the people. We believe that this is essential both for defence and for the quality of our military forces. In Norwegian defence, the duty of protection is a pillar. It secures the anchoring of defence in the people. It ensures that you recruit the best. It ensures that we have a defense consisting of a cross-sectional section of the population. The protection requirement shall ensure the required volume. Although we're now taking in relatively few soldiers, this relationship can change over time. The protection obligation is important to ensure a positive reputation around the Defence. Much has been done in the defence budget, and much has been done in relation to the safeguards regime, to which the Council of State referred in its response. I am concerned that those who are in the first time should experience that they will get something back. In this way, the study score system is very important, and I am pleased that the Council of State is so forward-looking in ensuring that this scheme is used, that it appears attractive to the soldiers, and that an en route improves it. I am also concerned that when the soldiers have finished their first duty, they experience that they have had a meaningful time, that they have received appropriate training for the tasks they have. I think it's important that one after the first shift has learned something that you also benefit from in civil, and that goes beyond what you've learned about the defence technology and how the defense works. The centre party is committed to having a defence that reflects the population. In this way, our big group has said that we want protection for both men and women. It's an expression of a willingness to bet on the Defense. We see it as an important step in that direction when we have now introduced the obligation to sit both for women and for men. We have to follow developments carefully, because it is my belief that a smoother distribution of gender within the Defence and among the soldiers in the initial service will strengthen our defence capabilities. We as a society spend a lot of money and resources on the defense. The red-green government is betting on an offensive and effective defence. Then we are totally dependent on the support of the people to use the resources of the Defense. I believe that the duty of protection and the individual soldier's experience of a meaningful first-time service is essential for people to have such an attitude toward the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1079	As just finished at the Chief of Defense College, where I have seen a lot of good protective people on close terms, I feel the need to make a brief contribution to this interpellation debate. First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for lifting an important topic. I am aware that the trusteeship system in the defense has been concerned about this for a long time. That is why I would like to pay tribute to the raising of the topic, and I hear from the debate that the interpellant has a good understanding of the subject. I want to join the message from previous speakers, and I am also very pleased with the focus the interpellant had on the joy that more women had come into the military, but also the challenges they face. In the following brief, I would like to explain the Left's view on the duty of protection and its content. The starting point must be that as long as we have a duty to protect in Norway, the obligation to protect must be filled with content. The left has a programme obligation for protection, and consequently we are also committed to measures that can contribute to a protection obligation that actually matters and gives something to the individual guardian. Without real content — training or education — the duty of protection will be confused. There has been a lot of talk about the need for a status increase in protection in recent years. Some status-enhancing measures have been launched, and, as the Minister for Defence has also pointed out, emphasis has been placed on developing a system for a more meriting service with training, practice, skills for individual posts and categories. That, I think, is a good way to go, because it helps to make the duty of protection more relevant and attractive to the individual soldier. Like the other parties, the Left has received concerns messages related to the low implementation of civilly accredited military subjects for the vulnerable — given that approximately 8 000 carry out the duty of protection and that there are no more than 1 400 examinations divided into three subjects of up to 15 study credits and a percentage of 50, on which the Minister of Defence was also concerned. The interpellant has presented in detail the challenges of implementing this type of training in relation to the protection obligation in a good way, and, as I said, we believe that it is important to fulfil the protection obligation with real content. Then it is necessary to look at the practical aspects related to the introduction of this type of course and subject, whether a syllabus is available, or whether teaching staff have satisfactory competence, etc. etc. We are not opposed to expanding the number of subjects and courses in which to take school-leaving education, but believe it is important to speed up in this respect. In this way, we may avoid some of the child diseases we have seen, which the Minister of Defence also explained. Several conscientious objectors will receive study credits in civilly accredited military subjects. Then, of course, the low exercise activity we've seen in the Defence, which several people have had in recent years, is also important for the motivation of those under protection and in the long term also for the protection obligation as such. The general level of training in Defence is an extensive discussion, which we will probably come back to several times in this room in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1100	Both the representative Pollestad and the representative Tenden were involved in the duty of protection as a system, and I am well aware that the Norwegian magnificence agrees that the duty of protection is something we should carry on with us, and that is how we want to organise our military structure. I'm glad to hear that. I am also pleased that the debate we have here today will bring it to the fore. It is also important that representatives are aware that having a compulsory protection system is a costly way of implementing education and military training. But as I was in my main post, it also creates opportunities for very good quality. The representative Tende was also concerned with what is my main point in the interpellation today, and which I am very happy to have been followed up, that it is important that we fill the duty of protection and the time they are in, with meaningful content, both for the individual who is in the service, and – not least – for the defence, in relation to the needs of the defence, and the needs of society, which have actually decided that we should have a military power. The council said she thought the exercise, the quality and the education were good enough, if I correctly interpreted her. I would like to remind you once again of the Director-General of Homeland Security's concern for the 4 000 they will receive every year from the defence sectors into their structure. When the Home Guard takes it so clearly, I interpret it as a call for help to put in place the quality of the soldier mass that's going to serve in the Home Guard. We must take that seriously. With regard to the study credits scheme, which was the starting point for the discussion here, I fully agree that we need to hurry slowly. We have to make sure that we get the quality of both the teaching material as far as instructors are concerned, and, as I was also in the room, the locations to carry out that type of teaching, which is relatively new to the Defense – instead of doing it out in all military establishments. I'm probably interpreting the state council's statements there that she believes there are some challenges related to how to sign up and join the school. It is important to understand that today's education is mandatory. So it's the exam that's volunteered for those in attendance. The teaching is compulsory and replaces former military equivalent subjects, but this has resulted in quality assurance of the curriculum to be studied. I'm not going to blackmail the situation, but through today's debate, I hope that we've put the spotlight on a challenge that I'm interpreting so that everyone who's had the word agrees that we need to solve better than what we've done up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1117	Thank you to the interpellant for the debate. I'm happy for the commitment to the first-time service. The objective of the service, as I said, is to be both socially useful and meaningful, and it is important that efforts are also valued. The study score system is important for both the Defense and the soldiers who are in the initial service. The system helps to increase the quality of education, while at the same time it is worthy of our soldiers. As others have pointed out, practice and training are important. Our soldiers are getting more competence and satisfaction, and the defense is getting more operational ability. That's why I stressed so strongly that both the level of training and the availability of ammunition will increase next year. The guardians are an important field of action, and I am pleased that we can have a common understanding of this. To the interpellant's question whether I believe that we are good enough, I would rather say that through cooperation and long-term thinking, we can develop the first-time service together, so that it brings great benefits both for the individual soldier, for the defence and for society. So let's contribute to this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1126	The debate on substance is closed. 15 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1132	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1140	During the debate, Elisabeth Aspaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. This proposal has been asked to be converted into a transmission proposal, and the proposal then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government examine how a national programme teacher’s competence development plan can be drawn up by means of a hospitation scheme.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1181	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to amend the tax law so that all trade unions on the same line are granted tax deductions from the trade union quota, regardless of when they are established or whether they are affiliated to a main association.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1205	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote its own case with a review and evaluation of the rules on deductibility by the equation for the costs of the union quota.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1509	It is voted over the second paragraph of Section 12-1 of the adjustment. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1524	The other paragraphs and paragraphs under I and the whole of II are then added.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1534	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1544	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1709	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-11.ana.ud890e1822	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
