ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e26	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Laila Thorsen, has taken the seat. The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e34	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Per Sandberg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to ban hijab, niqab, burka and other religious or political symbols as part of work suits for Norwegian judges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e39	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e51	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre and the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. Then we're ready to start with the first main question, which is from the representative Morten Höglund.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e60	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A few days ago, NATO and Russia agreed to cooperate on the development of a missile shield to defend themselves against threats, including: regimes such as Iran. The Security Council is trying to meet any nuclear threat from Iran with various measures, so Iran as a threat is accepted policy in the international picture. In the Saturday revision of November 6th, the NRK revealed that three Muslim congregations in Oslo were fully or partly controlled by religious leaders, directly from Iran, on behalf of Iran’s top management. The imams have been specially selected by the regime in Iran. They preach a hatred against the West, and the goal is to prepare Norwegian Muslims for action, says sources of the NRK. So we have a situation where we're trying to meet the traditional threat picture from Iran. But how do we face the more disguised threat – the one living in the middle of us? When the PST is plugged in, the development has gone too far. I am talking about the influence that is done every day in silence. How do we meet these kinds of challenges in an open and democratic society? The situation I describe is not unique to Norway. It is experienced in many countries. So how can we have an international strategic concept that prevents this kind of fundamentalist undermining within our own borders? I think it's more than the good conversation that's about to meet this threat from an extreme and fundamentalist clergymanship.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e71	It was a large and comprehensive issue and problem complex to which the representative refers. It's a kind of threat that he's sketching a little bit unclear. It's not clear what the threats are, but it's obviously activity that the representative doesn't like, it's values that he doesn't like, and it's -- I'll say -- sponsors that he doesn't like. I would like to start by saying that democracy is going to meet those challenges from a position of strength, because it is using the instruments of democracy. That means that we have the rule of law, that means that we have order, and that we have the police force to follow up on activities that could be contrary to Norwegian law. What is contrary to Norwegian law is obviously to be responded to by the police. What may be at risk of being contrary to Norwegian law shall also be dealt with by that type of power. Then I think it's right that we should consider both so-called conventional and non-conventional threats. It is a debate that every country has to deal with in very many areas. We have to put away old cold-war instincts and see that there are also new challenges that affect our security. In this area, however – as I said at the outset – I believe that we must use what is the strength of democracy when we meet opinions and opinions related to faith, related to life's views. I would warn you that we are almost likening religions from land and regimes we don't like, with terms like 'unacceptable' and 'disgusting' because we have religious freedom, we have freedom of expression. But I repeat: there are clear directions in Norwegian law for what is lawful to implement, and what is lawful to plan. Democracy must stand up so that we have the capacity to follow it and to stop it in time, so that it does not pose a threat to people living in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e80	I thank you for your answer. It is true that these are new threats. It is also right that I respond to the sponsors, and I react to the business that is being done. I'm not the only one who responds. Iranian refugees respond, and very many Muslims react to the fact that regimes that stand for direct hostile positions towards the West can operate freely. One of the sources says to the NRK: you should ask the Norwegian authorities why they are not doing anything to stop the emergence of a dangerous enemy. One of the purposes of addressing this is, of course, to use the instruments of democracy, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs had in mind, to debate it, to bring it to the fore. It's one tool. But when you meet this in countries by country, the question is also about the regimes that sponsor this, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia – which, as far as not necessarily always, have the same agenda, they rival – if you cannot meet them clearly in international forums, talk to other European leaders about the same challenges and have a common position to face this threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e89	The last representative, Mr Höglund, said now, I basically agree. These are the debates we have to take. I have suggested that when we have freedom of belief, freedom of religion and investment, it is worth putting the question back again: Is religious freedom in the countries that invest? I've taken it up in relation to Saudi Arabia. I have stated that getting Norwegian authority approval – which is not something that is absolutely necessary, but which is requested – is not natural in general, but in my view it is also not natural in relation to countries that do not practice religious freedom. So I agree that getting this out of the light, having it debated, can also remove some of the myths. As Höglund says, Muslim response is also a broad concept. But people who are committed to practicing their faith, following Norwegian law, and using religious freedom, are actively taking part in the debate on the directions that can get along with it. But it's not that we can associate one country with one regime, and then say it's a crime. We must have cleanliness in the concepts, and I think democracy is well equipped to have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e96	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e99	It becomes a little strange when the Foreign Minister refers to freedom of expression, even religious freedom, as a foundation in this context. Regulating entry to Norway, making demands on the financing of environments in Norway, is not a matter of course about freedom of expression or religion. We have that kind of rules in a number of areas, for example: in the case of aid to political parties. It is therefore not new to regulate immigration, movement across the border with Norway, through legislation. But I see the Council of State so that even if you take a position and say that this is an undesirable development, you have no means to do anything. It is said that if you receive a request for funding a mosque from radical environments, for example. in Saudi Arabia, the Council of State will say no. But what does the Council of State do in those cases where it is not asked? Should it be accepted that the type of funding and radicalisation of Muslim environments takes place in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e106	I want to party to what Amundsen's representative says: illegal activity. Illegal activities are by definition not legal; they are prohibited – activities must be controlled and punished if they are illegal. But it is not that establishing a religious community where people can cultivate and practice their faith is illegal, even if it is contrary to what is a long tradition in Norway. It's the new world. People are going to pray to different gods and go to different religious communities. Much of that is strange to us, and then we must also have a living social debate on it – not least, as the representative Höglund said, with people who have similar faith. We need to have an up-to-date regulation, present order, to make sure that if anything goes into what the representative says, illegal activity, it is dropped – not only when it has happened, we need to have the capacity to follow before it happens. That's the approach we need at a time when we have people with a lot of different beliefs in our country. I believe again that it is the strength of democracy to be able to meet this kind of development with that approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e111	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e114	The framework on freedom of religion is and should be known in Norway, but the government is responsible for ensuring that those who operate in Norway comply with laws and regulations. I am aware that it is not the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but really the Minister for Justice who is the addressee of the question I am now going to ask, but the government as a college still has a responsibility to ensure that the rules are followed. As far as we interpret Section 7 of the Foreign Affairs Act in the Right, there is a clear basis for refusing entry if necessary for reasons of national security or other foreign policy. The question is, what does the government do to follow up on exactly what it does to refuse entry, if it turns out that those who want to enter, for example: imams from Iran, go across the activity that is allowed in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e122	The representative is probably right when she says that with regard to the administration of Norwegian law, it is the Minister of Justice who can give the best answers, but I still think the answer is quite simple. You don't need a special paragraph to refuse entry for those who are planning to break Norwegian law. It has to be clear. So you could say that this is a new area. It's harder to prove, it's harder to be sure where the boundaries go. That's what I'm saying now, we have to have both police and prosecution authorities that can follow this development. But I want to be careful about suspecting everyone who comes on trial about religion, who is about faith, and stop them by saying that because they do, they have by definition broken Norwegian law. That's not the case. It travels people from Norway to a wide range of other countries and spreads a Christian message. They don't do that to break the law of the host country, but we get a greater need to have attention to it. And as I said, if people want to get into Norway to break Norwegian law, they won't come in, and if they do, after they get to the country, they're going out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e129	Dagfinn Højbråten - till last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e132	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a clear and frank response on how to deal with illegal activities. I would also like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs on his unusually clear speech to Saudi Arabia in relation to violations of religious freedom there. After all, it is paradoxical when the people of Saudi Arabia provide millions of support for the construction of mosques in countries that respect religious freedom, while they themselves are world champions in the opposite direction. I have a question of a principle nature to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in the extension of this issue. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that our own practice of religious freedom in Norway and relations with religious communities should be made dependent on how other countries practice religious freedom? Is it the case that because Saudi Arabia violates freedom of religion on a point-by-point basis, Norway should conduct a more restrictive practice in its exercise of freedom of religion in Norway against congregations from Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e139	Since it's just a short time, I'll answer quite generally no to that. I think it is very important that we now, just as I said in the initial answer, use democracy and the principles of the rule of law in this area. So it's not like we're going to be inspired by countries that don't have religious freedom, in the way we sneak into our side. I think we are much stronger in being able to make these arguments, to raise them in international arenas – in the United Nations, in the Council of Europe, in the Human Rights Commission – if we ourselves have a practice in accordance with international law and established traditions, while at the same time showing that we have a police and orderly system that cuts down on any tendency towards illegal activity, the spread of hateful expressions and calls for criminal acts. I have seen it in the review from European countries that I have now started to see how other countries react to this. Among other things, France has just said that we are inconvenient about this issue, because we will not be like Saudi Arabia. Of course, I fully agree. It says something about the way we set up this case, the way we deal with it in international forums. Freedom of religion in Norway is a mark of nobility in our society, and we must not destroy it in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e144	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e147	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge about a circular for confusion. The evening post has revealed that the new circular on assessment and characterisation has created full confusion among the country’s teachers on how to understand this. Teachers express frustration and protest against a regime for the establishment of stand-by characters in which hourly exposure and workload are not to be counted, only tests. Whether the students are on Facebook or are on the board, it doesn't matter. In short, it means that high school students can sit and sleep, and weak students can avoid help without consequences. This sends crazy signals to the students and can undermine both the teaching and the teacher's authority. It is also difficult to understand how this can benefit students. Professional engagement is important if you want to improve your own performance. The circular sent to the school is far from unique. That is why we are now witnessing some kind of NM in the interpretation of the assessment regulation, a very unfortunate and serious situation. If the new assessment regime remains unchanged, much of the motivation for ongoing school work will be lost. This may be the last thing we need in Norway when we know that Norwegian students are going to try to take back what their peers in other countries have in central school. Is the Council of State proud of its handling of this matter and all the noise it has created in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e160	I'm very happy to have this question, because there are many who put many more questions about assessment and characterisation in high school and high school than it is for. Since the Storting has agreed unanimously, including the Right, that it is the professional achievements that should be the starting point for the position characters in the subject, we have of course followed up on how, through circular and guidance, we should provide guidance in relation to assessment. The question of assessment and how to give feedback to students is very important. It's an area we've been a little bit bad in. It is crucial for the way in which students are evaluated in the course of their studies, but of course also for a final assessment, i.e. an assessment of their position, which results in a fair rating – and not a negation factor. So to the content. Is it the case that hourly effort and activity are important and can be emphasised when teachers are asked to set their stand? Yes, of course. If the student, through his/her activity in an hour, expresses professional insight and agrees to evaluate and apply perfectly the knowledge acquired by the student in the subject, it will, of course, give the teacher a picture of what knowledge the student has, and that is the basis for setting a position. But it is not that activity itself – if you are jabing on inflated and puffed out without expressing any kind of knowledge – should have any meaning. I think most people think it's pretty good to deal with that. So point two: is it that if one student is incredibly good in – let's say – mathematics and answers correctly to everything, but is far ahead of the other students and therefore chained to the hour and doing other things that are provocative to the community, is he to be punished in the form of lower mathematical characters? Or is it reasonable to be evaluated in mathematics on the basis of their mathematics skills, and then the order and behaviour to be used in the event that a student does not participate in the community or in any other way... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e169	The Council of State does not answer my question, whether she is proud of the way this matter is handled. State councils are now using Storting's Question Time to prepare for the directorate that should have prepared in the newsletter that has been sent out. There should be interpretation, there should have been clear guidance on how teachers should carry out their assessment and practice in school. So what the state council now just makes visible is that the state council has its interpretation of this. The circular is so unclear that teachers around ask a lot of questions about how this is to be understood. So my question is: does the Council intend to send out a new circular that will clarify the first circular, or how has she intended to calm down in school and ensure that you have an assessment practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e176	First of all, of course, it's demanding to give a fair assessment. It is reasonable that the students are concerned that the thread factor should not be significant, and it is reasonable that we strive to set fair grades as much as possible. It is not the case that virtually all content is questioned as to how the assessment should be. But of course, it is a matter that needs to be assessed and that you have to reflect on when you are learning, and that is, how do you give good feedback along the way? And what is a fair definition of a position character? Then, of course, we engage in dialogue with teachers – and the Education Directorate also engages in dialogue with teachers – to find out how best to do this. Of course, we should contribute to making it as clear as possible through dialogue. If there is a need for a new circular, I would like to ask questions. But if you want to look for a sentence here and there to misunderstand, of course, there is always the possibility that there are some teachers who do. [[The President clubs.]] There are also some students who want to do. So here you just have to assume that it is the professional competence to decide the matter... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e183	In any case, the clock should not be misunderstanding. The number is out of time when the clock is at zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e186	I didn't have time to watch that!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e192	There will be three follow-up questions – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e195	I record that the Council of State points out that if someone wants to pick out a single sentence and misunderstand it is possible. I note that this time too, after a circular from the department, there is a great deal of unrest and what the Council of State calls misunderstandings. The Council of State uses the opportunity in the Questionnaire to try to correct and say that people have misunderstood. I guess that should tell you something about what's coming out. I also see that the Council of State in the evening post today has used the opportunity to try to clean up. Isn't it that when you're going to set criteria for determining grades, it should be clear? After reading the piece in the evening post today, it is at least no more obvious to me. Will the Council of State now ensure that there are clear criteria for what to count and what not to count, and solve the unrest that is uniform from school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e200	The job now done with the regulations for assessment, guidance on what is good judgment, gets quite good feedback from School Norway in general. But it is not possible to draw up a list of decisions on how to do this. It is possible to provide guidance on how to provide good feedback and what is correct assessment. There are some obvious misunderstandings for which I believe there are no points of reference, either in the case of circular writing or in the case of guidance, but which have obviously spread in some schools, for example. the perception that it is the unilateral duty of the teachers to look for the students in order to obtain a basis for setting points of view. It's not. It is clear from the regulations that the student has an obligation to participate. So that case I can just clean up right away. Then there's someone who's been thinking that the student's effort per hour should not have a bearing on the position character. I can just cancel that right away. There are no clues in the circular so you can think of it this way. That, of course, is the professional expression that the teacher should include in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e209	Mette Hanekamhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e212	I am pleased and grateful to the Council of State for the fact that she is also concerned with a fair and professional characterisation in school. This is precisely why the Education Directorate converted and the student organisation actually supported this. The problem of counting effort is that you have challenges: what are good efforts? How much is it to pay attention to in the rating? How much should it mean in relation to the professional shown on the theoretical tests? So my question to the Minister of Knowledge is: does the Minister of Knowledge see challenges linked to meddling with a discretionary assessment of efforts in characterisation, that this can make a difference among different teachers in characterisation, and that it should be the objective, professional performance of the tests, that must be stressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e221	I do not agree that tests alone are the best basis for assessing students, because of course that is the effort, or the insight – let's call it – that you verbally show that you have in a subject, is to give the teacher a picture of what the student has of competence, and what you have achieved professionally. It must be part of the assessment of the nature of the position to be given. But it has been very important to stress that there are competence objectives and the professional insight that students have, which is the starting point for the position character of a subject, because just as the representative Hanekamhaug said, there have been many students who have experienced that it has been a great degree of prime factor. This may also be the case in the case of written answers, and it is very important that the teacher is clear to the pupils about the criteria on which the position is based and also gives careful feedback on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e226	Dagrun Eriksen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e229	I think it is important that we recognise the reason for the change, and I think it will come out well. One of the things that hasn't come up is that the system maybe premiered girls' way of dealing with school in a better way than boys. I think it's been right to make some changes to this. But at the same time, the Christian People's Party is very concerned that we now have a situation where we get through national tests and by the fact that the effort is lost, more and more students who practice tests, who are becoming more and more professionally oriented, and how the way to handle knowledge does not come out so well. I'm just asking the Council of State to consider, for example. progress — that is, progress — as one of the criteria for developing a different way of acquiring knowledge, rather than using effort as such. How can one ensure that this isn't about rehearsing, but that we get students who get knowledge for life?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e240	This is a very important question — how to find the balance between assessment and feedback, and the balance between the broad social mandates of the school. Not least, the motivation of all students is closely linked to mastering something, getting positive feedback on it, and then, of course, reaching for new goals, and meeting expectations. That means that we should be very careful about overfocusing on testing. These are the national samples, but they are also concerned with the background of position characters. That's why I'm so busy stressing that it's not like the more written tests you have, the better the basis you have for setting points of view, or the better the basis you have for learning. You have to find a reasonable balance, and you also have to pay attention to what the students verbally and in the hours show that they can and master. So we need to have a broad knowledge view, and we need not least to have learning and not testing at the center of the classes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e245	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e248	My question goes to the Minister of Health. I am quite sure that the Minister of Health also looked at Focus yesterday. There were several findings, including: a little nice picture of the country's capital at night this weekend. We saw a cop who spends most of his resources on flattening. We saw a tipping industry that is partially out of control, and we also saw that the authorities have a little lucky grip on how to deal with these completely unacceptable conditions. Then we know that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health have announced on several occasions that you have a grip that you intend to present to the Stortinget, and that has the full support of the Christian People's Party, namely to reduce the maximum turnout time at night. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. There is a solution that the police, not least, have been extremely concerned about getting, so that the police can be used for what the police should use, namely for anything other than cleaning up flats and off-the-shelf food. As a policeman said at Focus yesterday, we islands and islands, but the authorities do not close the hole in the boat. In the draft State budget, the Council of State announces that it will submit proposals for changes to the alcohol legislation in the autumn of 2010. My question is: when will the Stortinge get a proposal for a change in alcohol legislation that means that maximum time will be reduced from 1 p.m. 03 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02 at night?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e260	I also looked at Focus yesterday, and what the representative Syversen describes as a slightly flattening picture of the country's capital at night, I can quite clearly confirm. However, I would say that the story, to complete the picture, was to compare the gift industry in Stockholm with that in Oslo. In Stockholm, the alcohol law was actually enforced, and in Oslo, four out of five did not. It is primarily those who donate, those who sell, and those who sell alcohol, who have to enforce the legislation. We had not had what could be described as flat-filling in the streets if the legislation had been enforced. And I want to be very clear that it is the person who is responsible, who must also take that responsibility. We have a national responsibility for setting framework conditions for the marketing of alcohol. I am pleased that we have a strict alcohol policy in Norway, that we have a monopoly on wine, that we have high taxes, which in that way limits, and that we have advertising rules that also make me think we are better off with alcohol policy than in other countries. It's true that we've said that we're going to make a proposal this fall. It's coming. But I can also say that when it comes to curtailment, we won't do it at this point. We want to wait for the research done by Sirus in many cities, knowing that there is absolutely a connection between violence and alcohol. But when it comes to donating time, we might come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e269	It is quite alarming that for over a year the Minister of Justice has boasted in many, many contexts, including in this Chamber, now leaving the government — the main instrument for reducing alcohol-related violence. You can ask any police officer and get that answer. That must mean there's a plug in the government. In Oslo, it is the parties Right, the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left that have been in charge of this – I call it – that are completely insane in this city, and that together also stands for the opening times we have. So my question is, is SV also in government the plug in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e278	My impression is that the Christian People's Party has been with quite a long time in the management of Oslo. And when it comes to the enforcement of the alcohol law and the tipping points in Oslo, it's clearly municipal responsibility. It must be located in the municipality through the check-in and through the training of those serving. It won't help if you push something one hour forward. You can still experience the same relationship between violence and alcohol. Then I also said that we should come back to this when we see the research results from SIRUS. That's how, as I said, the relationship between violence and alcohol damage is pretty clear. It also appeared in the programme yesterday. When it comes to giving, you can assume that the longer you give, the worse the situation. At the same time, there is little research into this from Norway. That's why SIRUS is doing this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e289	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Filip Rygg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e292	These were, to put it mildly, surprising signals from the Council of State. In the local way that both the signed and the state council hold, the Bergensavisen, we could read yesterday, Tuesday 23 November, that after a reduction in the turnout time, the violence is almost halved in three years. It has been raised beyond any doubt that availability, including gift periods, has a major impact on consumption and adverse effects. The government itself wrote in the Evening Post earlier this year: ‘We want to reduce the amount of alcohol-related violence. Research and experience point in the same direction: The reduction of turnout time works. That is why the Ministry of Health and Welfare has proposed to reduce the maximum time for donation.» The question therefore arises after the answer given: Does the Council of State doubt this research she herself referred to less than a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e306	After this matter was on the hearing, I have read the recordings, and also the hearing recordings, which have come, quite carefully. It is not that there are unique images from different parts of Kommune-Norway regarding this. I have also received signals from Bergen that it is difficult to see whether the cut-off of half an hour's turnout time alone has led to less violence, because one must also see this in connection with other measures. I would like to repeat that the most important thing – whether you close at 1 p.m. 02 a.m. 02:30 or 02:30 03 – is the control exercised at the service points. The fact that you have a responsible check-in is the responsibility of the municipalities. Many municipalities have wanted them to decide for themselves how long they should have been open. But it also requires proper enforcement of the alcohol law. It's true in Oslo, it's true in Bergen, it's true everywhere. So I have said that we will come back to this once SIRUS has completed their extensive research project, which they themselves have addressed on their own initiative. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e315	Once again, the President has to ask that you deal with speaking time in a sobering way! Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e320	In the Progress Party, we have programmed that a gift grant should be easy to get and easy to lose. But one of the major challenges we have is that there are 430 municipalities in this country that have a different practice and a different approach to peer control. The gift of excessive drunkenness and the gift of minors shall be prohibited. But we're hearing about municipalities that carry out fake checks at 0 p.m. 14, and we see municipalities that, even in the event of repeated violations of the alcohol law, are only giving a warning. We have also heard of municipalities that are subject to distortion of competition with the neighbouring municipality with regard to the measurement of penalties for overdrafting and the donation of minors. My question to the Council of State will be whether the Council of State would be able to draw up clear national guidelines on the penalties to be imposed in the event of an infringement of the Alcohol Code. We know that municipalities want autonomy in relation to opening hours. In the case of reactions to infringements of the alcohol law, is it appropriate to have national guidelines for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e329	The representative, Gåsvatn, doesn't have to worry about the 430 municipalities. He can concentrate on the municipality for which the representative Gåsvatns party is responsible, namely Oslo. What was shown very clearly at Focus yesterday was that four out of five tipping points in Oslo were drinking people. That is why the politicians in Oslo should take the spectre seriously. The municipalities have every opportunity to take the gift grant from those who violate the alcohol law. It is the clear responsibility of local politicians to ensure that no one gives in to excessive intoxication. Then we would get much less filling in the streets, and we could have a much safer capital even in the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e334	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e337	I want to go from order to behavior to professional characters again. The left believes that teachers are the most important. More good teachers are what Norwegian school needs. On behalf of the government, the Council of State has a very modest target for continuing education of 2 500 places, even though we know that there are 30 000 teachers in Norwegian schools who lack professional immersion in the subjects in which they are assigned to teach. The Soul Education Association characterizes it as a betrayal of the students. One third of the places offered by the government are actually unused. It's not because Norwegian teachers don't want to know. On the pages of the Education Association, there are, among other things: a teacher who writes: «I am also one of the lucky ones!! Feels privileged this year with 2 days reduced to studies in mathematics. Is not unemployed for a second as a contact teacher in 7 classes next door, but so great to have the opportunity to study and learn again. We all need this! Too bad there are so few who get this opportunity." Another teacher writes: ‘This split layer has failed. The State must go in to cover everything for the municipality cannot afford to cover its part. If it's going to continue like this, I'll be a retired person before I'll be able to get further education. I'm 39 now." The government has prioritised a quarter of a billion dollars for fruit, several hours for teachers who don't exist, and homework with unskilled. It's been the government's priority. My question to the Minister of Education is: Isn't it time to look at the whole distribution key? Here we can go into and prioritize even more without interfering with the local maritime administration and actually be involved in the most important piece of Norwegian school, namely several good teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e357	Well, the teacher is most important. The teacher's competence is most important. Fortunately, we have managed to increase the recruitment rate for teacher training by over 30 pst. in the course of two years, but we also have a great need for those who are already teachers in school, so that they can develop their skills and get further and further education. On this issue, the main challenge is not that too little money has been allocated from the state. It is the model of how we get completed continuing training that we have not fully met and that I look at. We don't get to use all of the places we have, and there are several things that should be done better. One thing we've started changing from this school year is getting more of the further education closer to the teachers, i.e. more decentralised. They're grown-up people. They have family obligations. It's hard for many to attend. Question no. 2: Have we found the right balance in the split layer between the municipalities and the state and the teachers? Today, we are demanding a self-help from the municipalities to invest in their teachers. Basically, I think it's important. When the municipalities are employers, when they have negotiating responsibility for the teachers and responsibility for agreeing working hours, etc., I think they should also contribute to further training, not just be passive and call upon the state for earmarked funds. But the question is, have we found the right balance here? Then there is a last challenge and partly also disagreement between the municipalities and the teachers and the state on the other side. It is that many municipalities want short courses that do not necessarily provide a particular formal structure of competence, while the teacher organisations and we have been concerned about providing study credits, longer courses and formal competence building. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e368	I'm an old teacher. If, in the light of the debate on assessment that we have had before, I should have considered this answer in relation to the question of competence requirements, then the Council of State would have come out a little bad when the answer is just about looking at this. It hadn't broken through in a school class with me, to say it like that. She says that the money here is not the problem. The same thing repeated her State Secretary a little earlier. Then two teachers from the Education Association in Rogaland said that it was a provocation against the whole class of teachers. In the case of continuing education and training, it is actually possible for us to enter with targeted money, pay a larger proportion of the municipal expenditure, without interfering with the local maritime administration. I don't believe the council when she says this is something the municipalities don't want. I think the municipalities will, but the municipalities don't see any economic room for action. Why can't we help them give the teachers what they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e377	There's not necessarily an agreement on what the teachers want, and what the municipalities want. What the municipalities often want is a shorter course, and they protest that we want such a clear training profile on this money. So there's a disagreement where the teachers agree with me more often than with the municipalities. And second, no, it's not like rich municipalities invest in teachers' further education while poor municipalities don't. It's about how to prioritize locally, and many municipalities actually manage to prioritize further education with their 40 pst. in the split layer for this purpose. Yes, I'm going to see if we distribute the burden fairly between the state and the municipality and the teachers now, but when the municipalities want to have the employer responsibility for the teachers, and they have the employer responsibility for the teachers, I think it's fair that the municipalities also contribute to the further training of their teachers, and that you don't think that this is what we do only when the government gives us money for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e386	There will be three follow-up questions – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e389	The more I listen to the council, the more confused I get. What I think I've heard now was first just bet on food, now it's half a banana, and also to extend school day – which Trine Skei Grande was also in the house. The left believes, and has always thought, that competence is more important than hours and the whole or half of the track, or whatever it is. The latter actually costs 241 million. kr per year, and there is money that, as the Left sees it, could have been used completely differently. Now I hear the Council of State initially in the answer to the Skei Grande confirm that competence is the most important. I want to hear the council say it again. Is it now that the Minister of Knowledge will support the Left's proposals for stepping up the competence of teachers in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e398	I work on this every day. There's no reason for Borghild Trend's confusion based on what we're doing at least, but there might be other things that might confuse you. It is essential that we be able to build up the skills of teachers, that we be able to recruit more teachers, that we be able to provide guidance and fill in. Part of the discussion about the assessment regulation is also about this. We have focused on further training and formal skills building. I think that's right. So to the smallest proposal available in Norwegian school policy. It's taking these apple and banana crowns from high school students. I think we're going to become more and more concerned that nutrition and learning are closely linked. Ask the high school students - they say exactly the same thing. After all, how many teachers you get for one banana! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e407	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e410	The need for more flexibility in the further training of teachers was also a major issue in the debate last year. The Minister wanted, among other things: look at the model from Karmøy, where much more was trained according to their own model than according to the government model. Nothing has happened so far, and it's not at all the teachers it's on. It is not likely that this is simply a costly solution for the municipalities to participate in. When will the Minister ensure that the system of continuing training of teachers is made more flexible so that more people can participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e417	I'm working on this, because it's true that we haven't hit that model when we have 2,500 places, but we use 1600 of them. But there are two things I don't immediately want to give up on. One is that many municipalities want shorter courses. We believe it is important that this money, which is additional to that otherwise used by the municipality for further training, has a device for continuing training. Then it's important that we facilitate that it can be as decentralised as possible, and be as close to the teachers as possible. We've made some changes to that, and we're going to keep doing that. Then there is one question, and it is: Is there a gap between the state and the municipality and teachers, such as: is it a question of splitting off temporary costs, which municipalities may often not pay if there is a shorter course, but with which they have to set up when there is a longer course of competence, properly balanced? I'll take a look at that. I'm going to discuss that with the municipalities. But I think it is important that the municipalities themselves are involved in investing in their own labour force. This must be done by all other employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e426	Elisabeth Aspaker – to the next and last follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e429	It's now six months since we had the first concern conversation that the demand for further education for teachers was much lower than what we expected when seven out of ten teachers say they actually want to fill up professionally. Just after Easter, we had an interpellation debate here, where the Council of State accepted many good suggestions on how to make continuing training more decentralised. We referred to the success story from Sogn and Fjordane, which has run through 300 to 400 teachers this year. They're not close to getting to the same thing with the arrangement that the government has put up with. The teachers are responsible family members. They can't leave their family. Many teachers can't leave their class either, because it's not skilled teachers to put in place. Troms County has been told to send their teachers to Trondheim and not to Tromsø, which is a university town. What will the Council of State do now to go back to the old recipe that works, instead of going on with a scheme that doesn't work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e439	We've, from this fall, stressed that we're going to have a more decentralised offer. This is a system that we've had two consecutive years. We started with 1500 – and we've stepped up carefully. In addition, the offer comes to principal training, where we started with 200, and now we have almost 400 participants, but we still have free capacity there as well. The rector's offer has gone to new principals. Now we're expanding, so that those who want to become principals once in the future can apply. So then I guess that part can be disposed of. Then we have to find the right form that makes you have further training opportunities and that it gives teachers better opportunity to take advantage of the offers. But I think a central point here is the questions: who pays for the temporary worker, and is it possible to get temporary workers? Here it is a spice layer, and I believe the municipalities should still contribute. Then we'll see if we've found the right balance, because today it's a split layer – 40/40 for state/municipal and 20 pst. for the teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e446	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e449	My question goes to the Minister of Health. In the last few years, I have been able to grant millions of dollars in compensation for people who have had their childhood broken because of sexual assault. Through Storting’s replacement committee, I have come to know in depth what such abuses do to one – both as a child and later as an adult. It's about mental disorders, major drug problems, and the lack of trust and relationships with other people. As a society, we have a duty to protect children from such abuses as far as possible. There is provision for treatment for pedophiles who admit that they have a problem, but media reports that there are several times that there are several years waiting for such treatment. I hope that the Minister of Health agrees with me that this is not acceptable, and I want to know what the Minister of Health will actually do with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e458	There is a serious question raised by the representative regarding children who have been subjected to sexual abuse either in their own family or outside, and how many of them go about later in life, how many have major mental health and drug problems. However, treatment of pedophiles must take place within the mental health care system and within the institutions that have been built up through the psychiatry escalation plan. We now have more than 70 DPSs around the country, and we also have a specialist health service in psychiatry that treats far more than what you've done in the past. It can be difficult to have competence in these people elsewhere than in mental health and psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e465	The Institute of Clinical Sexology specializes in this group and treats several people who have been convicted of sexual assault. They say they have 40-50 people who have not yet committed suicide, but who are asking for help. This institution has the capacity to help many more. They say they have sent enquiries to the Ministry of Health and Health that they – by obtaining more funding – will be able to help them, but that they have been denied it in recent years. So the question is, shouldn't we take this cost of helping these pedophiles, rather than taking the cost of ruined life at the other end?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e470	If you could know who would go wrong, I really agree with that. As a society, we have to do everything we can to protect those who are being attacked. I also agree with the representative that we must treat those who are asking for treatment and have an offer for them. For all types of treatment, there is something out there in regional health establishments. I know that this has been taken up in the past. I also know that many people get treatment in prison, when they are there, and also elsewhere. A special site is mentioned that can provide this type of treatment. Well, we can always talk about that later, and see if this is an institute that is not used, but that has a competence that we should use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e475	There will be a follow-up question – from Jon Jäger Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e478	In health care, John Dewey’s old thesis on the importance of ‘learning by doing’ is often used, i.e. learning by activity to be good and thus improving the quality of the offer. State Secretary Robin Kåss has stated in the media that the knowledge of pedophilia is poor, and that therefore the help is little extensive. Does the Council of State agree with its State Secretary in this regard? And in case she is: why do you reduce the allocation to perhaps the foremost environment that can do anything about this topic, that is, what the representative of Kjenaas Kjos said, the Institute of Clinical Sexology and Therapy? We see in the media that there is pedophile waiting for treatment. Would it not have been better then to increase the appropriations and learn more, and by doing so could prevent pedophiles from violating children and ruining their lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e485	I'm concerned that we should do what we can to avoid an assault, or that the offenders are indicting themselves, especially if they have done so in the past. Therefore, it is important that they receive treatment – of course it is. At the same time, for all types of treatment, there is something around the regions, in health businesses, but I have now been made aware of a special environment, which is a specialist in pedophilia, and I will take it further. Then I may come back in writing with an information about what it is they can offer, which we are not using today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e490	So let's get another main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e493	I have a question for the Minister of Health. In focus last night we could also see a strong and heartbreaking story about children born with abstinence, because mothers use methadone and Subutex during pregnancy. We saw the story of a loving mother who wanted her children well, but who got no offer but to use strong drugs. We know that 50–60 children have been exposed to this every year. We know that most people have strong withdrawals that need to be treated with morphine, often for weeks. We do not know what adverse effects this will have in the long term, but some of Norway’s leading paediatric patients have expressed strong concern about the impact on children. In other areas, Norwegian health authorities base their recommendations on a precautionary approach to pregnant women. Pregnancy is available as a total alcoholic strength, to avoid inland trout over 1 kg and not to drink more than two cups of coffee each day. That's good, because all children have the right to protection against health damage. However, according to the Health Directorate, this should not apply to children of mothers undergoing medically assisted rehabilitation. Methadone and Subutex are recommended for treatment during pregnancy in the Health Directorate's guidelines. The right was supported in the Storting, when we dealt with the maternity message last year, that such children should have the same protection against health damage as other children, and that this experiment should be stopped, and that those planning pregnancy should be advised to stop taking medication and get good help and support in carrying out a drug-free pregnancy. The Council of State has pointed out in a letter to me that the Health Directorate believes it is unrealistic for LAR users to stop taking drugs during pregnancy. They don't think it's possible to give these women another offer. And what I hear is that the Health Directorate won't even try to give these women another offer, so that the children can be born without abstinence. Will the Council of State follow up the clear message of the Storting that women in the LAR should be advised to stop methadone and Subutex before pregnancy and receive good support for a drug-free pregnancy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e507	Yes, the first part of Focus yesterday was also heartbreaking in this way, because it is a reality that some children in Norway are born not with dependence but with abstinence. Of course, it is best for pregnant women to be totally pregnant throughout pregnancy – there is no disagreement about it – and protecting the foetus, or the child, in the best possible way, I think everyone is concerned about. Then it is a reality that many, at least some, addicts have children – it is a reality that many who go on LAR, methadone or Subutex are pregnant. Then the question is, how should the woman be helped to bring the child forward in the best possible way? After what has emerged, even though I saw that there were shades in that programme, it is a recommendation from the Health Directorate – and I understand that it is also relying on international research – that this treatment should continue during pregnancy. I would like to stress that the best thing is that you don't have any addiction at all, or are being treated, that you don't rush or take drugs during a pregnancy, but you can get rid of it before you get pregnant. But then, unfortunately, reality isn't always like that. So there is ongoing work now developing national guidelines for pregnant women in the LAR and for the follow-up of children up to school age. This working group has made 234 recommendations. In the case of 233 of them, you agree. This has now been consulted, and these guidelines will be presented with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e516	My question concerns recommendations to those planning pregnancy, not those who are already pregnant. This is the Council of State that is responsible for, not the Health Directorate. This is not a question of professional disagreement, it is an ethical question whether we should try as far as possible to protect these children from harm. And as I see it, the Health Directorate, as then the Council of State is pushing ahead, they believe that it is not possible to give another offer to these women before they get pregnant. So they won't even try to add up to that, that's how I read the Health Directorate. Now I want a clear answer from the Minister for Health: Will she recommend women who plan to get pregnant and who are undergoing medically assisted rehabilitation, to stop methadone, or will she not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e521	As I also said instead, of course, I'm concerned that most people are able to carry out a pregnancy without either drugs or drug-assisted rehabilitation, subutex or methadone. Of course, that's something that we all ingrain, that's the best thing to do. So we know that someone gets pregnant when they go to LAR or Subutex. And then they ask, what should you do if you plan a pregnancy? Yes, if you're planning a pregnancy and are able to stop abusing or with LAR, it's quite clear that it must be the best. But at the same time, I want to stress that I am a health minister, I make sure that guidelines are developed, that they work on it. In fact, many other things I have to leave to medical expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e526	One follow-up question will be raised – from Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e529	Each year, several children who have been forced on large doses of drugs are born during the nine months they have spent in their mother’s stomach. When the umbilical cord is cut, the drug supply stops, and a period of several weeks of escalating with stony abstinence begins for the little one. I see that the Health Directorate minimizes these consequences. I see that the Health Directorate prioritises women over the newborns. And I feel that the Health Directorate is thus weakening its own confidence in the population. Does the Minister of Health have the same concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e536	I wish that no children experienced that Mother was using harmful drugs during her pregnancy. But we know that some of the women who go to the LAR get pregnant. Then there has been international research, there have been assessments in Norway, there has been a working group that has looked at what is the best treatment during pregnancy. And then I have to assume that those who have that competence and that knowledge – and that we also saw in Focus yesterday – who say that mother and children in that context cannot be separated, do what is best for the woman and not least for the child. It is essential that we have the distinction between politicians and professionals. They also say that it is the best knowledge and assessment they have today. And that's what they're following.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e541	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e553	There will be one change in the questionnaire, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 13, from the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide to the Minister of Labour, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e566	‘I refer to Article 15 November pages 4 and 5 of the Haugesunds Avis on a teacher who has committed an assault on students and who receives a fine certificate from the school from which he is licensed as a result of allegations of abuse. The case was not reported, the teacher got a new job in school elsewhere in the country, and committed a new assault. Infringements must be reported and convictions made for criminal offences to be recorded. What will the Council of State do to strengthen confidence in a certificate of good conduct and that the school owner is responsible for reporting a suspected offence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e573	Let me just review what's going on in this area. So what's clear is that there's a requirement for police clearance for employees in kindergartens, primary school, high school and SFO, and it's been for years. Then, from 1 August 2010, we have received a demand that it also apply to employees in cultural and music schools and that it is extended to those who work with teaching aids. In the letter of consultation sent out the current harvest, this requirement has been extended to school-like activities, for example. summer schools, football schools, ballet schools, etc. It is proposed in the same letter of consultation to be extended to criminal offences other than sexual offences, for example: serious violence, violence and drug crime. It also applies to kindergartens. So we're very concerned about getting a code in this area that allows you to register people who have committed serious crimes. But of course we also have some challenges. First of all, although the police record is in order – even if you have a police record, and it is in order – you must not trust it unilaterally. It is not the case that anyone who commits a criminal offence against children has done so in the past, or is previously reported or intended to do so. It is also the responsibility of those schools which are close to this type of issue, to report in cases where it is suspected that it has been committed. And it's there, as I understand it, this case lies, that a school that should have had some cause to suspect a person to report has not done so. What's my responsibility then is to make municipalities and schools aware of and encourage them to report these kinds of cases, because if you don't, these police certificates don't get any special value. Now it's like a police record doesn't just contain the cases in which you're convicted, like the representative addresses his question. It does not contain any reports, but at the moment when the case has been investigated, that it has been prosecuted or convicted, it shall be part of the police record. Then, of course, a police certificate and a certificate from the employer will have an impact on who is employed in a school, a kindergarten, a music school, etc. But those who make recommendations must pay attention to being as honest as possible, and if there are such serious issues that the representative addresses, I would strongly encourage schools and municipalities to report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e593	I think the Minister of Knowledge really takes this seriously and comes with good, and to some extent reassuring, input into his comment here. The police record was introduced in 2004. But what's happening, as the minister was also about, is that it doesn't always get up-to-date. Although things are reported to the school management, they are not automatically updated because the duration of the police certificate is so and so long. It is a paradox that within child protection, the precautionary principle is used to care for children, and in the case of suspected abuse, the threshold is low to deprive parents of care for their children. As far as the school owner is concerned, however, it is more important to respect the rights of teachers and the name and reputation of the school than the best of children, unfortunately. The result is that the infringement is not reported. What will the Minister do to ensure that the school owner ensures that the children are protected by the law in the event of possible abuse in school, as is the practice of child protection in relation to the home?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e602	I think the representative is concerned about the crucial thing here: how to follow up on what is intention, and the strong call for how to deal with these kinds of things in each school and in each municipality. Because we now have legislation that is strict. I think the representative can agree with me that only a review in itself can we not have on a police record – it will be a very low threshold to go to a review. So a purpose is not a common judgment, and that would be, we should say, an entry of this precautionary principle. But we don't get very far with it unless the schools themselves follow up, and if you're not honest when you're giving references to someone like that. replaces school, replaces county, replaces municipality, etc. So you have a very serious employer responsibility when you're in charge of school. You also have that responsibility in relation to what kind of recommendations you make about an employee who changes jobs, and to actually go to the review if there are any relationships you think might be a violation of children. Unfortunately, we have examples of things that we almost don't think when we see them. So here the schools and the municipalities have to be more attentive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e607	Once again, I think the Minister of Knowledge is very clear and clear and understands the problem. At the same time, I have to say that I am a little disappointed, and I hope that the Minister of Knowledge listens well after now and tries to do something about it, because: Here it was said honesty in the process when you are going to seek a new job. But the strange thing is that the Education Act does not actually oblige the head of the school if a teacher changes school in connection with an assault case. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which Norway is subject, states that the best interests of the child should be fundamental to all work with children. What action will the Minister of Knowledge take, and when, in order for the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be in force at school – above the Education Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e614	Now the representative is concerned with something that is an important and really demanding balance, namely if you like. in a school, a teacher starts to suspect that he has committed an assault, but has not come to the point where he has reported it. So maybe the teacher also understands that now there's something going on -- here's the best thing to do. Should you tell the new school that this is a teacher we have under supervision, or should you not – how close should you be? It is quite right, as the representative Thorsen says, there is no warning obligation on such questions. But I want to say that you ethically have a responsibility too. I will follow up on the question of whether it is such that it should also be formally introduced that kind of alert obligation. I think that is a rather difficult question to weigh, but in any case there is one thing we should go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e625	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In 2010, the Stortinget granted SEK 190 million in exceptional funds to county councils for more apprenticeships. The money has been added to the county framework grant and is proposed to continue in the next year’s government budget. A survey carried out by the magazine Education shows that only 11 out of 19 states have reported to the Department on how they want to spend the money. What is the Council of State's comment on this, and on the fact that the Department does not have an overview of whether the money goes for the purpose?'
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e634	It is quite right for the representative of Aspaker to comment: as part of the package of measures in the context of the financial crisis, we introduced an additional 10 pst apprenticeship grant. We have retained that, and the funds are allocated through the framework grant to the county municipalities. So they're not essentially earrings. No reporting requirements are normally imposed on non-earmarked funds. However, the Ministry of Knowledge has decided that county municipalities should report on the use of these funds and the deadline for reporting was set at 1 November 2010. It was also a deadline of 1 July 2010 to see how the counties had intended to spend this money – but 1 November is the deadline. And I believe that the information we receive is important information that we need to take with us further in relation to looking at how the instruments are used. The headline in the journal Education refers to the preliminary reporting from July this year, from over half of the county councils, on how these funds were planned to be made available in 2010. The interim report shows that the main focus of the county municipalities that have reported is planned to provide increased grants for all approved apprenticeships and training contracts. Several municipalities have planned to grant additional grants to firms and schools for apprenticeships. In addition, several municipalities have planned to use the funds for different projects to increase the number of apprenticeships, for example: to campaigns to recruit more apprentices. Five county municipalities have now reported to the KS on 1 November. The Ministry will review the reporting from county municipalities as soon as they are received from KS. It is important from the point of view of the need for more apprenticeship places that this grant has continued in both 2010 and 2011. What is so far leading to this is that the county should use it for what is most appropriate to continue existing apprenticeship contracts or to create new ones. But what I want to do now, when we get the final reports after the deadline of 1 November, is go through how the states actually use these extra funds, because they are in dialogue with the social partners also about renewing a social contract on apprenticeships. That's why I think this is interesting: are the states using this money in line with what was intended or is it that we should manage the use of these instruments more than what we've done? So the theme that I perceive is that the representative of Aspaker is busy, I am also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e645	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I think it's a more reassuring answer than the answer from Secretary of State Lisbeth Rughtvedt, who said to the newspaper Education that she thought the counties were following up, and you wouldn't interfere with how you spent this money. I think it was a pretty clear assumption, and expectation, from the Stortings side, that these funds should actually go to one of the maybe most critical points in higher education, that is, getting enough learning places, because we know that there we also have the biggest drop-out. So I'm very concerned that we have to keep track of it. My question to the Council of State is: is something being done now to ensure that apprenticeships will be put in place earlier? We know that as of 1 September, there were still 5,000 students who wanted a place to study, but who still hadn't. That number is probably lower now, but there are still many that go large parts of the harvest. The aim should be to get these students started in August, when their fellow students may start on the school bench. What can the Council of State do to ensure the dissemination of sites in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e652	It is very important that you start disseminating apprenticeships at an earlier stage, because there are many young people who go beyond the harvest with uncertainty about whether they can complete their education and get a letter, and get an apprenticeship. So that's also one of the things that I've addressed now in dialogue with the parties. We had a meeting on November 18 to add a race for how to get to a new, more binding social contract. Today it is approx. 50 pst. by students who are opting for secondary education but 15-20 pst. by a student coal actually takes a diploma, and an important reason why we do not succeed here is lack of apprenticeship places. Now we're a little bit better this year than we did last year, but there's still a lot of uncertainty about these numbers. But in any case, it's young people who don't get to finish their education because they don't get a place to learn. I have several other measures, of course, on the list of how we will succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e659	I noticed the answer, but there may be one social sector that more than anyone else is going to need a lot of qualified personnel in the years to come, and that's the care sector. There I have noticed that there is actually a decrease in the number of learning places – there are several applicants, but there is a decrease in the number of available places. When the Council of State says that you will not control what this money is going to, I wonder, in the light of the Reform of Cooperation and in the light of the importance of this sector: Will the government, in dialogue with the county councils, also contribute to this becoming an area where you actually go further in order to provide learning places for those students who start in the health and social field, in the hope that they will also have a place to learn after these two years in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e666	I'm not saying we shouldn't control them – on the contrary. Now we look at the reports coming from the county councils, whether they should be managed more clearly in relation to the purpose of providing more apprenticeship places. In the health and social field, we have a significant challenge because many of those who start in the health and social field do not complete apprenticeships – some because they lack a place to learn, others because for other reasons they choose a third year's build-up to acquire study skills to move on. But when we look at the need for care in the future, we see that we need a lot more in health care. That's why this is a development that concerns us, and it's a separate topic how we're going to both recruit enough people in the health and care sector and get the drop-off and completion into high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e673	So we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e680	This question, from the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide to the Minister of Labour, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e683	Then my question, which is in the same street as the previous question, goes to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘550 young people lack apprenticeship space in More and Romesdal. It is necessary to stimulate more enterprises to become apprentices. Support for training offices and apprenticeships needs to be increased to make it easier for enterprises to involve more apprentices. This makes it easier for younger people to enter the labour market and improves access to skills for businesses. The employer’s fee for apprentices is referred to as an obstacle to the inclusion of apprentices. What will the Council of State do to ensure more youth apprenticeship?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e692	I'm very pleased that there's so much commitment around the question of apprenticeship places, because I think we need all the good forces to be able to get enough apprenticeships so that those who choose the profession of higher education can complete their education. It is also important that representatives follow up on their counties – as the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide is doing. We now have an extensive effort to increase the number of apprenticeship places, because we know that it is essential to be able to complete higher education. After all, we have two challenges in the professional field. One is that more people should be able to get apprenticeships so that they can complete their education and take their professional letters, but we also recruit too few. There is now a debate about whether we are encouraging our young people too much to choose academic professions. Now we don't have any over-recruitment to it in Norway, but we have a sub-recruitment to the profession, at least that's for sure. This means that the status and performance of these subjects must also be raised. But then, of course, those who choose them must know that they can complete. That's why the apprenticeship places are so important. I'm working with the counties to improve the implementation of higher education. Learning places are important there. I'm working with the social partners to get a new social contract on how we can get to more apprenticeship places. There are some challenges, because Norwegian working life looks a little different now than it did a few years ago; there are more small businesses and fewer of the large industrial workplaces that took many apprentices. So we have to look at how we can target more of the work towards the smaller businesses, so that it is possible for them to also take apprentices. Then we see that we have some challenges that are not primarily linked to the apprenticeship allowance or, if necessary, to the removal of the employer’s fee. Now, of course, it's always the way everyone wants more money to do a job. But I think that in the support around the small businesses, the fissure layer as it is that smaller businesses accept an apprentice, even though you can never be sure that a good apprentice who eventually gets a letter of formal qualifications will be in that company, but perhaps caught by the neighbor company who has not done a team of work to contribute to the training, there are some kinds of issues. I don't think it's a good idea to remove the employer's fee for apprentices. That's because it will, for example. Finnmark counties have no pleasure from, because they do not pay employers’ fees there, and the employer’s fee is differentiated. I think the grant is more focused. When we look at the numbers for More and Romesdal especially on November 1, we see that there were 971 applicants for a place of study there this year. By 1 November, 672 had concluded an apprenticeship. But there's more people waiting to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e709	First of all, I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I think this is a matter where the Council of State and I agree on both the issue and many of the measures that need to be taken. But 30 pst. Of those who applied in ours, I have understood that line and are waiting for an apprenticeship. These young people really feel that the system is failing. Some experts have said that more apprenticeships can also reduce the number of dropouts. Do the Councils agree with these expert opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e716	Yes, absolutely. It's very important because we see that many of those who don't do high school miss us between the second and third years of high school. It's exactly here that an offer of apprenticeship should be, because it's not as attractive and not as motivating for those who want to get a letter. But we're also working on other things in this area. It's looking at how we can give students a legal right to a place of study. Of course, it's about being able to cooperate well with the companies, because it's very important that the apprentices get into businesses. It is enormously instructive and motivating. It's instructive to get an apprentice too, because they ask some questions that maybe we who have been in work for a while have forgotten to ask us. As a result, they also contribute to increased awareness at work. But it's also a mission that we now have to find out how we can increase legal certainty for those who choose a profession, so that they get a lesson.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e723	The Council of State itself pointed out the importance of this with cooperation with the companies. Getting more apprenticeship places is a win-win thing. It's going to be less drop-out, as we talked about. It is a fine way for students to gain skills in and for the company to recruit labour, especially at a time of low unemployment, where competition for both hands and heads is high. When the companies themselves point out that this with the employer's fee is a challenge, will the council listen to the companies in this way and look into the Christian People's Party's proposal to halve the employer's fee to the companies that accept apprentices?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e730	I do not think this is a good proposal. I believe that the main aim of the enterprises is to increase the grant for apprentices, because the employer's fee is differentiated, and because parts of the country do not pay an employer's fee at all. Remember, Finnmark County is where we have the greatest challenges in implementing secondary education. Then it's a little strange that we're going to target this particular instrument in such a way that it comes to the state that has the greatest challenges, at least to the benefit of it. I'm 100 pst. agree with the representative that there is a win-win situation for the industry we are facing here. I have to say I'm a little shocked that business doesn't see how vulnerable they are, because today we depend on the labour force of Poland or Sweden or other countries. The fact that they are in Norway is linked to the fact that the economy of themselves is going badly, but it can turn around, and then many companies in Norway are going to face enormous challenges in recruiting competent people if we can't get the amount of apprentices up. If we can't find the key to solving this, Norway will have major problems getting out of the drawing board and out in practice, out in reality, whether it's construction, road investment or railway investment. So we have a great job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e739	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e746	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘After the summer tax debate, in particular: Today's Business has been reported in the Finanzavisen in the past week that more than half of personal declarations submitted from KPMG and Ernst & Young have been mistreated by Skatt West and by the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs. I assume that the Council of State does not find this acceptable. What will the Council of State do to ensure the more correct execution of the duties of the Tax Administration in the processing of declarations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e755	The financial paper has shown two references to claims from KPMG and Ernst & Young regarding extensive errors in the treatment of tax returns at Skatt West and the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs. After the first look-up, Skatt invited the West to a meeting with the audit firms KPMG, Ernst & Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte. The purpose of the meeting was to gain knowledge of the alleged errors, as well as to invite to a dialogue on possible improvements both in the tax treatment of the tax administration and in the assistance of audit firms in the submission of declarations. The Tax Directorate informs that the cases in question relate to taxpayers with foreign relations. In the Tax West, this is 83,850 out of a total of 751,000 taxpayers. The Tax Directorate points out that Tax West, in cooperation with the audit firms, has so far revealed possible errors in well over 100 cases. Some of these cases relate to either defective submissions or defects in the submission, but there are also cases of possible errors in the equation processing. According to the Tax Directorate, Skatt West has notified audit firms that the equality authorities will be concerned about the time limit for appeals in individual cases. Tax West has also contacted the tax collector, and they will put the invitation at risk to taxpayers where it is claimed to make mistakes in the treatment of them. Furthermore, audit firms have received their own contact persons in the Skatt West and the tax returns in Bergen and Stavanger. The Tax Directorate informs that the other regional tax offices have also entered into similar dialogues with the largest audit firms in their regions in the West. Of course, the defects detected during the equation treatment shall be corrected. However, the most important thing is that the quality of the equation itself is good, that it is systematically working to improve the treatment of the equation, as the tax haven does. Contact and dialogue with business is an important part of this improvement, so that errors can both be corrected and errors prevented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e768	I think it is a little trivial, because it is not just a matter of faults at the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs – we have had a number of suggestions that there is a lot of error in the procedure also in the Tax Agency this year. It is clear that when we know that four out of five Nordics do not understand their own self-declaration, it has a little to do with what the Council of State was about, namely, revealing errors. There are also many errors that will not be discovered. It could have been very interesting to be flying on the wall in that meeting between the auditors and the tax administration, because I think that here the tax administration should be quite humble and look at the accountants as a kind of client and co-operative partner to discover how to actually get a treatment. I hope that I can confirm from the Council of State that he is sitting on the shoulder of the Tax Department when it comes to detecting errors both ways, because it has a little bit of trust in the whole system to do, especially when so many people don't understand their own self-declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e773	I do not devalue in any way what this is about, but the question refers to what happened in the Tax West and the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs. So I found out that it might be necessary to go to the source – in this case, Tax West. It's also true, as Gundersen's representative says, that auditors can play a good role, because it beats a little bit both ways. In many cases there is a lack of submission; in other cases there may be errors in the equation treatment itself. So yes, auditors, accountants, and others are good partners for the Tax Department in identifying errors, but also help to avoid making mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e780	That, I think, was a constructive answer. I think we should work together here, because we also have reports from the National Audit Office that confirm that there are major challenges in the tax haven and in the treatment. It might also have something to do with introducing new computer systems. It is clear that when you start automating a lot of the treatment, you are quite dependent on the fact that the information that comes from the tax payer is actually also recorded in the computer systems. I come back to this again a little bit that we have got such a complicated tax system that most people don't understand their own tax returns. Even if you are a liable tax payer, you will also be very dependent on the tax administration doing a good job, and we certainly agree on how depending on the entire Norwegian welfare community is confident that just the collection is done correctly. So I actually took the last answer as a confirmation that the Council of State is also sitting on the shoulder of the Tax Department when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e787	I guess I'm not exactly sitting on the shaft of the Tax Agency, because then they're being weighed down by a man with a big body weight. But I try to encourage them to do a good job and have conversations with them, so that they can still do a better job. It is right, as Gundersen's representative says, that people's confidence in the tax haven is important for the whole welfare community and for the collection of the taxes and charges that are to finance all the good purposes of the community. I believe that the Tax Directorate and the Tax Administration are doing a very good job, but everyone can do a better job, and that is also what we are aiming for in the case of the Tax Agency. Then it is that even if we have received electronic tax returns and so on, as taxpayers we also have a duty to both provide the right information and check that the information we provide is good. But I'm convinced that we're going to get both an invitation and an equation treatment that's in the highest world class, and that's what we're going to go after.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e798	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘On 18 November 2010, an article entitled ‘Resistance to tax changes’ was included. The case concerns Farstad Shipping, who chooses to include new ships in subsidiaries registered abroad. The Progress Party is deeply concerned about the trend towards flagging a look in the light of the conflict between government and industry following the shipping practice in the Supreme Court of February 2010. What will the Council of State do to improve the framework conditions and, in particular, to make the framework conditions predictable for the shipping industry?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e807	Let me first thank you for the question. I think that the question illustrates a little bit how one and the same event can be seen with very different eyes, because while the representative Nesvik presents what may be worrying or negative, namely that you do not choose the Norwegian flag, I see this as a huge statement of trust to Norwegian shipyards, because two of these boats are actually to be built in Norway. It shows that this industry is competitive, it is strong, and that we are also successful in the fight against the notified shipyard crisis, which fortunately seems to be less than we feared. The ships are ordered from STX Offshore, headquartered in Norway, and two of the ships are built at STX Langsten. The Norwegian maritime industries operate in global markets and have a significant impact on Norwegian value creation. Farstad Shipping is an example of this, with worldwide activity. It is natural that this is also reflected through international establishments with ownership of the fleet. If there is an area where the government wants to facilitate the success of Norwegian businesses, it has been within the maritime sector, with shipping companies and maritime companies developing activities in the international as well as Norwegian business. In 2007, the government adopted a comprehensive and comprehensive maritime strategy — ‘Steel course’ — where the vision is that Norway should be a world-leading maritime nation. It is probably also in that in the period before this, also under the bourgeois government, the course was not as bad. The central approach of the government is linked to ensuring competitive and stable framework conditions. We have now set up a new and internationally competitive shipping tax system, unanimously adopted by the Stortinget. Unlike the situation under the Bondevik Government, the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers is now also safe and stable, so that this is also a predictable framework condition. Another key element of the strategy is a targeted and strengthened commitment to competence, research and environmental action, accompanied by annual budgetary resources. This initiative was stepped up through increased maritime frameworks through the MAROFF programme in the Norwegian Research Council and maritime schemes under Innovation Norway. This was continued in the government's 2011 budget proposal, and central parts of the yard package that we entered in the revised budget in spring were also continued in 2011. We work closely and objectively with shipping companies and maritime companies and international market access organisations, to strengthen industry and for stable long-term framework conditions. That is why our policy in the state budget was well received. There has been turbulence around the transition system. It is now history, and the most important thing is to ensure that industry is competitive in a future international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e826	No one should take from a joy that exists that we have begun to have new contracts at Norwegian shipyards. It's very positive, and I and the Council of State don't really agree that it's joyous – at least I hope not. My starting point is related to the precisely flagging issue and not to what is involved in the construction. The background to my question is something that the Council of State itself has raised in the past. The Council of State pointed out quite early after its accession as Minister of Industry that it was very important that we got up the tonnage and number of ships within both the NIS and the NOR systems, because it is among other things. to influence Norway’s position as a shipping nation internationally, so that we get more impact for our point of view. Therefore, my follow-up question to the Council of State is this: Is the Council of State comfortable with the situation we see in NIS and NOR now, and will the Council of State do something to improve the conditions, especially within NIS?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e833	The conditions in NIS can hardly be improved economically. They are among the best in the world in terms of the economic framework conditions for using the Norwegian flag. Then we can probably get better and better at service, follow-up and that kind of thing, and that's also the background that we're looking at the possibility of streamlining the NIS and NOR administration and the service around this in an even better way. But the economic framework conditions for operating ships from Norway and the Norwegian flag have never been better than under the new regime. This government is counting on it to be a long-term, stable, predictable framework, which allows us to maintain our position as a large shipping nation. It's right, as the representative says, that having a big fleet, being heavy on this, also gives us positions in international organizations. It gives the whole cluster strength. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises across the coast that depend on our success.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e838	With regard to the conditions within NIS, it's not just the economic conditions you're talking about. You also talk about where you can operate, and in what way, and not least, treatment time – treatment time, etc. is also an important element in this respect. In connection with the register, the Council of State stated that it was important to have shipping companies that had already flagged out to fly their boats home. We saw early that some signals came that you might be willing to do it. But now it looks like it's stopped all the way up. Especially recently, we got the opposite effect, namely that the shipping company to Fredriksen actually flagged out their last boats, despite being told to fly home. I know that the council is very concerned about this now, that I think is very positive. My question to the Council of State is this: Do you now have a strategy to get more people to fly their boats home, so that our registers can become even more competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e847	I am pleased that we agree that the financial framework conditions around NIS are good. So it's the issue of NIS and NOR, which is not simple, because this is also about another important group, namely the interests of the seafarers. I am absolutely sure that in the representative's home state there are many who are concerned about that side of the case. Then, certainly, processing, service and that kind of thing can always be improved. I think what the industry primarily needs is long-term stability. There is no doubt that when «Steam course» came, there would have been an area of constant, small and large changes and thus less predictability than that on which the industry depends. The red-green government has been sitting for five years, we have had a reform of the whole system that is now world-class, and our line is to keep this for many years, because then we will have the predictability and stability that also strengthens confidence in Norwegian maritime policy further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e858	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Increased efforts on public transport were one of the key points of the climate agreement. Now our biggest cities report that public transport is not catching up on population growth in central Europe. For example, expensive path solutions become demanding. In Akershus this is a common theme in local media. In a situation where the 2012 Roadmap is at risk, population growth is strong and people want to travel collectively, the Left believes that the State must take greater responsibility. Does the Council of State agree with the Left in this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e867	Responsibility for public transport is known to be shared between the state and the county municipalities. In addition, the administrative reform has increased responsibilities and increased resources to drive a holistic transport policy. The government does not intend to change that responsibilities division. In recent years, the state has significantly increased the number of loopholes in its own area of responsibility, both for road and rail purposes. The permissions of the Railway Agency have increased by 2 700 million. kr – 67 pst. – since the government took over in 2005. It is very important that the permissions to operate, maintain and upgrade existing infrastructure increase. Without the strong priority of operation and maintenance on the railway, it would not be possible to keep up today’s train provision and would not facilitate a future increase in train provision. While efforts in the field of operation and maintenance have increased, opportunities for investment have also increased monthly. In the Oslo area, large amounts of money are invested in a large number of large and smaller infrastructure measures in order to be able to gradually realise a strongly improved train supply and to resume the process of maintenance and renewal. When it comes to non-governmental public transport, the state has given local authorities both new opportunities and increased responsibilities. At the same time, the administrative reform has also given the county councils greater resources and greater opportunities to give priority to measures on public transport and car transport. About 26,000 million. kr was transferred to the county municipalities in 2010 in the form of a framework grant, which included: can finance local public transport. In addition, transfers are made in connection with the administrative reform. The government has also increased the scope of the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use, which is earmarked for collective action in the larger urban areas. In 2010, the pledge was 333 million. NOK 431 million has been proposed for 2011. kr. In addition, in recent years, the country has made changes to the legislation on the use of tolls, so that it is now possible to also use toll revenue to finance the operation of public transport. Developments in the last few years show that your efforts are working. For example, there were over 10 million more collective passengers in 2009 than in 2008. Most of the increase was by bus in urban areas, but also trams and T-Bahn also led to the positive trend from 2008. So the state already has an expanded responsibility. I am now looking forward to the roll-out of the national transport plan and I am going to make sure that public transport becomes a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e884	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I had so far expected this jewelry list. I also know very well what the government has presented. My point is that this isn't enough. On Tuesday morning I was invited to stand and freeze with many other bus passengers at a stop at Nesbru in Asker, and I can confirm that there are many who want to travel collectively, as the Council of State was also about. The bus was of course delayed, and when it first arrived, it drove past because it was full. There is no special experience for us collective travellers. In its alternative budget, the Left has increased the appropriations for rail by nearly 1 billion. kr, we have increased the reward scheme, and we have a separate item with grants for special public transport in major cities. Is this something that the Minister for Transport will look at and follow-up – i.e. proposals in the alternative budget of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e895	Let me underline the great joy that the punctuality luckily during the summer and the autumn has looked far better than the case was during the winter last year. At the same time, there is no doubt that there is a potential for improvement both in punctuality and in spaces for far more passengers than the many who are betting on collective provision today. We're quite content to step up our efforts. It has to do with health and the environment, but it also has to do with appearances. This way, many people will have no choice in the most central cities – there is no space for cars for everyone. To the question, I can only answer that these actions are also on the agenda, and they will be discussed in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e902	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. In terms of punctuality, it was, if you're going to believe the dwindling NSB boss, Einar Enger, best in 2005, I read in the media. But back to my question. I was at a lunch meeting here one day and heard about value creation in the capital region. There I was informed that by 2030 we would have a population growth in the capital region of 400,000 people. The theme was value creation, but the very first thing they came up with was actually public transport and all the unprofitable hours that people spend in queues. Worst of all, it was the E18 in the Western region, which was a clog in the entire transport system. Can we expect an increase in the commitment of the Minister of Transport to exactly this? She says there are several people who want to travel collectively, and that's what I see. I see that there are several of us who want to travel environmentally friendly. We want to get ahead of business and those who depend on the way. But then we have to have an increased bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e913	In one way, it's kind of strange to stand here and almost be put into account by the Left, which, of course, had this department under the previous government, and where we can't exactly call the bet on the bet. It is also a bit striking to get back on track these statistics from 2005. The fact is that in 2005 the far fewer trains went, so that there were fewer trains to see the punctuality in relation to. But let's just do that. My brief answer to the question of strengthening our efforts is yes. The forecasts for the Austland region: we can hope that the Centre Party will be strengthened, so that several options are available, and that the worst predictions will not work. But there's no doubt that the predictions we have now need to be taken seriously. That means we have to bet even more on collective solutions than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e924	The question is as follows: ‘In the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the Government, under reference to the Investment Programme, states that a ‘important area of activity will be to facilitate the further development of national intermodal hubs’. [[...]] Undoubtedly, such developments will help to create more efficient and reliable transport chains. The challenge is that the development of such nodes requires interaction between several policy levels, public agencies and private interests. What is the main act of the Council of State to advance the development of such national transport nodes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e933	National intermodal hubs are important to improve the efficiency and reliability of transport chains, while at the same time facilitating more transport by rail and sea rather than by road. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to better link the road network with main ports, railway terminals and other important connecting points. In the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the government defines 31 mainline ports. Its connection is important for 25 of them, while the six other ports are sea-based terminals. These ports are linked to the tribal leadership that runs along the coast from Svinesund to the border with Russia. The development of national intermodal hubs – transport hubs where several modes of transport meet and where transition between them is possible – will also be an important area in the National Transport Plan Communication 2014-2023, to be submitted in spring 2013. Guideline 1, which applies to the distribution phase, was sent to Eta and Avinor in the middle of February. We asked the ETAs and Avinor to work out across the sectors and the modes of transport. Guideline 2, which applies to the planning phase, will be issued in March of next year. Etatane and Avinor are now writing a report summarising the analysis from the distribution phase. This will be an important basis for the leadership we provide for the planning phase. We ask in Guideline 1 that the etats and Avinor look at how to get the best possible connecting points for freight transport. Among other things, we ask them to do good for the largest bottlenecks and to prevent the effective development of the intermodal nodes Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Bergen and Tromsø. These are all designated ports after port and water laws. Guideline 1 adds up to a wide and inclusive process. In addition to the municipal and urban municipalities, other actors are also invited to participate in the work. Etatane and Avinor will, among others. pick up recordings from central user and interest groups and relevant directorates. I will follow the results of the evaluations carefully, so that the direction lines for the plan work take account of these findings as far as possible. This will provide the best possible knowledge for further work on the national transport plan. So I'm sure that we have a process that will enable us to move forward as well when it comes to developing an effective hub for freight transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e950	Thanks for the answer. First, let me clarify what the Council of State said, that intermodal hub is a hub where more than two modes of transport meet – important points in the national context of national transport chains. I am not reassured that this should be looked at in a new planning process – for two reasons, at least. One is that there is an explicit field of action for the planning period that we're in, with the plan that's been adopted, and that we're now putting two years behind, that we're going to develop such nodes. Therefore, it is not reassuring to hear that it is now to enter a new round of preparation for a new rolling of new planes. The second is that the Transport Economic Institute, referred to at the current level, indicates that precisely the local or regional handling of these nodes leads to a lack of coherence between national and regional local targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e957	At Sortevik's post now, it's good to be able to say that of course we have an exposure even in the present period. The country's involvement in the development of terminals and intermodal nodes comes first through the investments in state infrastructure to and in the terminals under the planning processes leading to these solutions. For example, on the Jären we have recently expanded, modernised and seen operating railway terminals at Ganddal, and we have established an expanded port terminal in Risavika. Both of these measures will contribute to a more efficient and reliable handling of goods and to more goods by sea and by rail. In several urban areas, such as the Bratttøra in Trondheim and the Drammen area, there are concepts for example. is intended to find the most effective solutions for the intermodal transport of goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e962	Thank you again for your answer. In the mountainous region, there is an important project in work of great national importance, but where the state intervention and the political grip of the overall authority do not appear to be present. There are many state agencies involved, but more as participants, it seems like. There are several municipalities and a county municipality involved, and from the private sector there are a number of organisations and stakeholder organisations that all point to the Flesland area, where we can just get an intermodal hub where all four modes of transport can actually meet. But it requires political governance; it requires political coordination of a completely different type from what we have seen today. My call to the Council of State is: Where is the central political authority to develop and advance the development of the Flesland hub?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e967	Now, let me give you three examples. All of these three have the same thing in common that they have a strong local commitment, while also trying to pull into layers. My impression as far as the meetings I've been to that relate to Bergen is that there is still a need for some local clarifications here before we can move on. But as I mentioned here, the etats have been given a special assignment, and they are now delivering it. We will discuss this with the county councils in February and do things for the largest bottlenecks and what can prevent the effective development of intermodal nodes in several cities. Bergen. Of course, it's because we're going to get more involved on the best possible basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e978	‘On behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, regional health enterprises have assessed which national services, in the form of national functions, multi-regional functions and national centres of competence, are needed from a five-year perspective. It is proposed to terminate the centre of competence for female health, the centre of competence for breast-feeding and the centre of competence for gynaecological oncology. This would run counter to the Storting's goal of strengthening the provision of women's health. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e985	The government wants a more dynamic and stronger governance of national centres of excellence. Therefore, we propose to establish a new management system for national services in the specialist healthcare service from 2011. It is necessary to change current regulation in order to initiate a new management system. We have therefore created a new regulation that has been at the hearing in the autumn. The Ministry will approve national competence services based on this Regulation in 2011. Services shall be anchored in regional health establishments on the basis of new criteria and requirements for national centres of competence. The Ministry’s assessments are based on a comprehensive proposal for the national centres of expertise needed for a five-year perspective and where they should be located. The proposal has been developed by regional health enterprises in cooperation with professional environments, universities, regional user committees and the Knowledge Centre. Today’s national centres of excellence have been reviewed and the need for new centres has been assessed. The proposal has been submitted to the National Council for Quality and Priorities and to the Health Directorate. All documentation from this work is available on the Ministry's website. The Ministry has not yet concluded on the continuation of current national centres of excellence. The same applies to the three national centres of expertise requested by the representative Sjøli. The conclusion is clear when we have reviewed all proposals and professional assessments, and after the new regulation enters into force in 2011. The Regional Health Enterprises and the Health Directorate have highlighted in particular the importance of continuing research activities built up by the National Competence Centres, if changes in national functions are proposed. I believe, like Mr Sjøli, that it is important to maintain and strengthen the competence and knowledge development of women's health. Ensuring good framework conditions for research into the health of women is a natural part of this and in line with the leadership of the Stortinge. I also believe that it is important to ensure that national competences on women's health, built over many years, which are recognised internationally, are not reduced. This work has been a comprehensive process in which all centres of expertise have been carefully assessed. The three centres concerned have important functions for women's health, and I promise that this will be given great importance when final conclusions are to be reached in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1000	The positive thing here is that the government has not concluded, and – if I understand correctly – that they would rather not build up these centres of expertise. The cooperative government, Bondevik II, presented the first women’s health strategy in 2003, and the Stortinget joined it, as the Council of State pointed out. The size was also concerned with including women’s perspective more in research and treatment. In fact, Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health, opened the centre of expertise for female health in 2006, and stated that this was an important part of the government’s women’s health initiative. But now the same centre of expertise is in danger of being shut down. As far as the centre of competence for breast feeding is concerned, Gro Nylander has made a formidable effort to promote breast feeding in Norway. This is a good public health measure that gives children a good start to life. I expect that the Council of State cannot be aware of being the Minister of Health who puts work on female health and breast-feeding many years back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1009	I can promise the representative, Sjöli, that I don't want to risk women's health or breast-feeding. I think both parts are equally important, and I also think it is important to focus on research on women's health and competence. Nevertheless, it is not always that because if you have started up within certain frameworks, you should continue within the same framework. That doesn't mean you don't think the theme is as important. I think it is important that we maintain the competence that is and that we can build on that competence. So we've said that we'll come back to how during the course of 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1016	It is not least now, especially in the light of reduced hospitalisation times and increased pressure on municipal health services, that this centre of competence and competence is maintained. In the case of centres of excellence for gynecological oncology, a centre is also proposed. The Centre of Competence has contributed to significant professional development in this area, which has saved women's lives and given them better health. It is doubtful — as far as the other areas are concerned too — whether the professionals can maintain the professional development of offers as well as a centre of expertise working continuously on these issues. The government is now working on a follow-up to the cancer strategy. Decommissioning the centre of expertise for gynecological cancer will weaken the work on female health and the effort against cancer, I now believe. How does the Council of State view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1023	As I said in my first answer, I am very concerned about women's health, research into women's health and competence in the field of diseases affecting women. I do not feel that it is a matter of proposing to build this down. On the contrary, we must maintain that competence. But then we come back to how we do it, in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1032	‘Health Nord has decided in its last Governing Board meeting that they will introduce the new proposed quality requirements of the Directorate for Health. This will lead to a reduction in the decentralised birth supply. North Norway is large in area, which will lead to large travel distances. A local hospital without a maternity ward cannot be defined as a local hospital. Will the Council guarantee that the maternity wards of the local hospitals in the north will last?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1039	For the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009 A happy event joined the Stortinget in two important proposals for the development of the future food supply. One proposal was that regional health enterprises should draw up comprehensive, multi-annual and locally adapted plans for maternity, maternity and maternity care, together with the municipalities concerned. The second was that previous requirements for division into maternity wards, maternity wards and female clinics based on birth rates are to be replaced by quality requirements for birth institutions. I have made it clear to regional health businesses that regional plans should be consistent with government policies and that processes should be well anchored locally. Quality requirements proposals have been developed by the Health Directorate and have been consulted. Final quality requirements shall be available on 31 December of this year. It is positive and necessary that the quality of maternity, maternity and maternity care is now put in place. I see that this can lead to challenges and dilemmas both for the pregnant woman and her family and for the future organisation and operation of food supplies. On 12 November, the Health Nord RHF Board approved a report showing the consequences of the possible introduction of the proposed quality requirements. Among other things, the requirement for four gynecologists at each maternity ward would make it difficult to maintain the current 16 food establishments. Since the final adoption of the requirements, Health Nord has chosen to draw up the plan in two stages. The first step makes the consequences of the proposed quality requirements visible. In step two, the Management Board shall decide on the organisation based on final quality requirements. Health legislation does not define the provision to be made by a local hospital. The need for local hospital services is different in areas with many older and few births, compared to large cities with young people and high birth rates. Therefore, geography, distances and availability need to be taken into account. I am aware that the board of Health Nord stresses that the county has a quality good and decentralised maternity care today. The aim of the Management Board is to maintain decentralised maternity care in the part of the country. The Health Directorate is now setting up a new training council for maternity care, and I would like to assess whether regional food plans should be submitted to this Council. When all four regional plans are available, I will – in cooperation with regional health businesses – review the proposals for structural changes in food institutions in the light of final quality requirements, geography and birth rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1065	I recorded that I did not receive an answer to what I asked for, if the Council of State would guarantee it. But I have a follow-up question to the Council of State. When the ash cloud came across us from Iceland, they chose to move ambulances south and north, and they also chose to put in military stormboats because of long distances, so that the safety of the inhabitants of the north would be good. And that was good. But then my question becomes to the Council of State: when the ash cloud is now gone, are the distances gone, because you don't want to do anything about this? The distances are there, whether you have ash cloud or not. I ask the Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1072	I have to say, with all due respect, that I actually tried to give a slightly complementary answer, because it is not everything in health and care that can be answered with yes or no. In the case of ash cloud, we were in a very special situation, which was short-lived, after all. When we're going to add up a food supply, a local hospital offer, in a part of the country that, as the questioner correctly says, has great distances, we have to make a lot of assessments of it, and not least take into account the great distances. At the same time, we must fulfil what was the leadership of the Stortinge: that we should also look at the quality of food supply. And that's what's now done. This is what you work with in Health Nord. It is not that in order to be a local hospital you need to have a food supply. A lot of people have it, but a lot of people don't. In the case of local hospitals in general, I can at least say: we are going to maintain the local hospitals that are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1083	The distances in the north are quite large, and when pregnant young ladies are to be moved tens of miles to feed, that's not good. The road network is low up in the north. The only thing they have now removed is the signs about elk hazards, because the roads are so bad that the elk has stopped walking on them. According to the Animal Health Act, it is not allowed to move on pregnant cows. But you can do it with young ladies – you can do it. So the question here is what you want to prioritize. I have a question for the Council of State. It is true that the South Troms/Northland region is a black hole in the so-called ambulance helicopter coverage. I have mentioned this with the Council of State in the past. If you're going to lay down maternity wards, will the Council of State make sure that we get a new ambulance helicopter base so that at least you have the opportunity to take emergency cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1090	An assessment of the ambulance preparedness to be provided must always be carried out. This is something that we need to continuously consider in the light of the need. But I would like to stress that there are no women in Norway who are going to be without a food supply. The whole point is that there must also be a safe and predictable supply of food. Where we say we're going to have doctors present, there actually has to be doctors present. They must be qualified and predictable. These are the things we're looking at right now. And then you always have to look at this also in relation to that preparedness in terms of ambulances that are necessary, whether it's on the way, to water or in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1102	‘By virtue of the Petroleum Act, Norwegian authorities require that electricity supply from land be explored in the event of new expansions or major conversions. Similarly, the authorities have provided the basis of the Energy Act to enable country electrification to trigger requirements to help maintain satisfactory security of supply. Will the government prepare a comprehensive plan for electrification in the Norwegian Sea, so that the various extensions can be seen in a context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1109	As the representative Skei Grande mentions in his question, force from land is assessed for all new expansions and major conversions in the petroleum sector. This has been implemented for all development plans since 1996 and has produced results. For several of the new fields that have been expanded with autonomous infrastructure, power from land has been chosen as a solution. Today, the Troll A platform, Gjøa, Worm Lange and Snow White are therefore supplied with power from land. Such a solution has also been chosen for Valhalla and Goliath. In 2009 was 39 pst. of Norwegian gas production from fields having power from land. Assessments of force from countries for all the new individual fields include the availability of power on the mainland, the costs of the action and emission reductions on the continental shelf. For example, a necessary prerequisite for further supplies of power to the petroleum activity outside Middle Norway is the rapid realisation of Ørskog-Sogndal. We've learned from the Worm Lange resolution that it's absolutely necessary to see expansions throughout the chain in the context. In our follow-up to the activity on the continental shelf, we also focus on assessing relevant area solutions where it may be an appropriate solution. In particular, it could be in areas where several smaller findings have been made in the vicinity of each other. In addition, both authorities, companies and other institutions have carried out a number of investigations of power from country to existing fields. Through the work on the reports Kraft from country to Norwegian base from 2002 and 2008, the Directorate of Oil, Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate, and for the 2008 study also at that time the SFT and the Petroleum Authority analysed the possibility of power from country to existing fields in defined areas of the continental shelf. The Norwegian Sea was one of several areas analysed. The analysis of power from countries for the different areas has recently been updated in the context of the work on climate change. In the Klimakur report, the cost of measures to operate all electrical installations on existing devices in the Norwegian Sea is in force from land calculated at NOK 1550 per tonne of CO2. In the light of this extensive work, I do not see the need to draw up further plans on power from the Norwegian Sea, as requested by the representative of the Skei Grande. For 15 years, we have had a system to ensure that force from land is explored and decided when it is a sensible measure. It includes both the development of individual fields and several fields in the same area. With regard to existing fields, we have recently carried out an assessment of the impact of such a measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1127	I have to admit that this question was asked as a handshake to the government, because we agree on electrification in the climate agreement. It is clear that then there is an investigation requirement. But what we know is that on many parts of the Norwegian base, many companies operate side by side, close to the sea, far away from the country. And that means that if each one is going to evaluate connectivity, it's going to be huge costs. By working together, we could manage to bring down costs and get sensible solutions for electrification. On land, it's a solar logic that you have a network of many different private owners. It's not like every person who lives in a valley has to lay each of his cable over the mountain. You coordinate it, because it's smart economical, and because it makes sure we get better feed. Why is the Council of State not willing to see the fields together when this is to be investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1136	It is possible that the representative Skei Grande perceived it as a handshake, but I see it first and foremost that what is being asked about, and what is being taken up, is something that is actually being implemented. On the base we have now had extensive work – I also mentioned in my response area plans – to look at the possibilities. It is not like one can get the impression from the representative, that one does not see two fields in context, does not have the ability to have two tanks in his head at the same time, when one assesses any electrification. That is why the answer – what is being asked about here – is a practical policy today. The main challenge as it is now is finding connection points and finding sufficient force. We see along the coast, partly in the Bergen area, partly in central Norway, that we have too bad networks. It creates great challenges if you're going to go ahead with electrification, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1145	I am fully aware that the Internet is a challenge. That's why it's important to get it in place quickly. The left has also tried to contribute to this in this room. We see that especially More and Romesdal are a challenge. Ørskog–Fardal is a very important part, but it probably can't solve everything alone. Now there are very large expansions going on outside of Middle Norway, and many are talking about Nyhavna as the new gas node in the Norwegian Sea. Then it is required that it has been prepared in many different ways. Then you also have to get the oil companies on the team. Today, oil companies in this region are not investigating an overall plan for the whole area in terms of electrification, but they are sitting and comparing their cables into different areas. It is important that Nyhavna is given the opportunity to develop into such a node. And sail if there's a lot of actors in that field, you should have made sure that there was coordination here. That's not what the council says, as the companies tell me when I visit them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1152	What the representative Skei Grande is now addressing is, in practice, something that can be grouped together in one response: there is access to power. As a result of the decisions taken over time in Central Norway, we have had too little access to force in that area. It is very problematic when we now look into it against Nyhavna and possibly new electrification needs in that area. We also see that there are challenges further south. So I don't think in this case we have to hide behind any inputs and formulations that go on coordination, lack of overall plans. The main challenge – if we are talking about electrification in Central Norway – is a lack of power. We'd have to build lines, we'd have to expand the power generation in the area. If we do that, we get it in place, which is my intention, we also have a good starting point for bringing down the CO2 emissions on the base forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1166	‘The Climate and Pollution Directorate, Clif, expresses concern about the climate impacts if the measures of the Åm Committee are implemented for increased Norwegian petroleum production. According to several media on 17 November 2010, Clif is particularly concerned about increased Norwegian CO2 emissions. Will the Council of State ensure that this is actually investigated in the context of IEA scenarios on world energy needs, that both national and global CO2 impacts are emphasised by changes in Norwegian oil/gas production compared to the IPCC reference path?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1179	Global energy demand is increasing. It'll be settled, among others. in a new analysis by the International Energy Agency, IEA. Oil products are currently widely used in the transport sector. The Agency’s analyses show that it is difficult to substitute for oil products in the transport sector over the next 25 years. There is a significant demand for oil seas if strong climate action is introduced. The analysis by the IEA also shows that about two thirds of CO2 emissions from the transport sector occur during the combustion phase. Much of the rest comes from refining. This means that the variations one sees in CO2 emissions per unit of output, which are important emissions to capture and reduce, nevertheless appear to have a more limited impact on total emissions, i.e. when one looks at extraction, refining and combustion as a whole. For resource reasons, from the start of the petroleum age in Norway, gas deposition has been required for fields. The burning of gas over the torch requires a separate authorisation. Extensive flaring — a practice seen in many other oil provinces — has therefore never occurred on Norwegian soil. This is good resource management and good climate policy. In addition, the development of the sector includes: focused on exploiting economies of scale. It facilitates energy-efficient operations, including: in the case of gas transport. Energy solutions for a field, including the study of power from land, which we have just discussed, are another important theme in all development plans that are important from an environmental and climate change perspective. These solutions complement our direct climate policy instruments. Petroleum activities in Norway have paid CO2 tax since 1991 and have been part of the European ETS since 2008. As a result of this use of the instrument, companies have a separate interest in limiting greenhouse gas emissions. That's good policy, because it's the companies that have the best information on how to reduce their emissions at the cheapest rate today and in the future. This means that the polluter pays and that one gets the most emission reductions for each krona used. These are examples of the development, over 40 years of petroleum activities at home, of a comprehensive instrument to ensure the well-being of other users of the sea, health, environment and safety and to ensure the preservation of the external environment at all stages of activities. The established instruments and the strong focus on limiting emissions from authorities and companies are important reasons why Norwegian petroleum activities have among the lowest emissions to air per unit produced in the world. An important challenge we are now facing in the petroleum sector is to extract the potential values that lie in our existing fields. This is something that the owners of the fields and authorities work daily to achieve. Great values are at stake. To help shed new light on the challenge we face, I chose to reduce a range of strong and broad petroleum professionals, namely the extraction range. The task they were given was to shed light on and identify any technological, knowledge, regulatory, economic or other obstacles that make it impossible to pick up socially viable resources today. They should also propose measures that may eliminate them. They have. The report has recently been at public consultation. I will now consider the proposals from the sample and the hearing opinions received. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1203	I think the Council of State here was well on the way to a good answer, because the Council of State made good clarifications on the overall accounts for oil extraction and use. One does not look blindly at the CO2 emissions from extraction on a Norwegian base, but one looks at the total. But I still miss – it was possible that it was in the remainder of the State Council’s contribution – to get an estimate of the national CO2 impacts, but also the global CO2 impacts. What Klef hangs in, and which is the essence of my challenge, is that they consider it problematic to follow up the Åm selection's setting, because there's more CO2 emissions per barrel oil in the tail of the fields. Then there's going to be a problem. Due to Norwegian CO2 accounts, a non-recommendation of the Åm Committee. But in a global perspective, where the IEA says that the world needs new access to oil and gas fields, even if total consumption is going down, emissions of CO2 will increase globally if Norway does not allow Norwegian oil and gas to be extracted, because then one uses coal elsewhere. It seemed as if the Council of State agreed to that idea, but can one give some answer as to whether one will also receive a global CO2 account in the Norwegian assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1231	Then the President opens for the rest of the answer to the Council of State – please, Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1234	I thank you for that. I see that I was keen to deliver a message, which is quite comprehensive, about what needs to be done to bring down the CO2 emissions on a Norwegian base. As for the rest of what I was going to say instead, about how I'm going to deal with this process in the future, looking at the Norwegian petroleum policy in a larger context is absolutely crucial. If one were to assess petroleum activity in Norway only on the basis of a thought within a national framework, the calculations would be very special to relate to, because we know that there is an international need, a demand, for petroleum products. It does not depend on whether Norway produces oil or not. What is our task is to ensure that the production we have in Norway is as good as possible. What was also important for me to find out in my answer was that I believe there has been a significant effort in Norway over time to contribute to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1244	It's rare it almost bubbles inside of me when I stand here and hear the council answer, but right now it does, because I feel very at wavelength in terms of how one should think. I now hope that the Council of State will also ensure that one gets quantified a little in terms of the consequences if a cutter in Norwegian oil and gas business, and what that means globally. What one has to assume, as the IEA does, is that then it's coal that's the marginal body. Less gas production in Norway means that the EU must import its gas from other countries, probably from Russia, which will then compensate for its lack of domestic gas supply by increasing its local coal production. At least it's a scenario that many intelligent people have presented. I'm looking a little bit to see if the Council of State can confirm that he will actually also go further, so that the idea or the set of thoughts that I share with the Council of State here, is also quantified a little, because it's important for the political debate. Clif has a much more active role in the public society debate than its own directorates have taken. Then it's important that one actually quantifys the consequences, and not let them operate on their own, as they've done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1253	It's going to be pretty complicated math if you were to have all the elements around these questions. What we see as a closer link is the use of Norwegian gas in Europe, where we have pipelines, where we have infrastructure, and where we see that the use of coal today is widespread. Estimates have been made showing quite significant potential emission reductions from our neighbouring countries whose coal-fired power stations are being shut down, and instead use gas as an input factor. So I think in climate policy and in petroleum policy it's important to have more thoughts in my head at the same time. In Norway, we have great opportunities to further expand renewable energy. We don't have coal as the base load in energy production. We see that other countries are in a completely different situation. Most countries are not like Norway. There is no doubt that Norway can contribute to the replacement of energy carriers in their production.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1264	I have the following questions for the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘When the Stortinget examined Document 8:7 for 2009-2010, a left-wing proposal to clarify academic freedom, it was unanimously decided to ask the government to assess how the academic freedom of researchers employed in the institute sector could be strengthened. Nevertheless, the evening post mentions a new attempt at censorship of research work, this time by the Ministry of Labour. What has the Council of State done to clarify demands for academic freedom, as she notified in response to the committee when the matter was being dealt with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1273	Academic freedom is a collective term for ideas that emphasize freedom of thought and expression, which are fundamental to the search for true knowledge and understanding. Academic freedom is a fundamental right to have an open social debate and thus to uphold important democratic principles. These ideas are of fundamental importance for free and independent research. As the representative knows, the principle of academic freedom is enshrined in the Law on Higher Education. This law does not apply to researchers in the institute sector nor to business. The representative proposal referred to in the question was aimed at clarifying this principle also for researchers outside universities and colleges. This is important, precisely because the principle supports democracy and contributes to driving research forward. As a follow-up to the proposal for a representative, which was discussed earlier this year, I have asked and received input from the Research Council on how the principle of academic freedom can be reflected in their general contractual terms and conditions, which embrace all types of actors receiving funding from the Research Council. The Research Council proposes inter alia: that the following passport should be included in their contractual terms and conditions – and I quote from their proposal: «The principles of academic freedom must apply to all research funded by the Norwegian Research Council, in so far as it does not conflict with the employer's governing law. [[...]] The content of this freedom is further proposed with emphasis on freedom of expression and freedom of method choice. The input of the Research Council is now being evaluated in the Ministry. It is a fundamental principle of research ethics that research should be free and independent and not governed. This is important precisely because it is absolutely essential that we continue with a research culture that dares to challenge the existing and perhaps also change paradigms. Furthermore, society needs a common research-based knowledge base, and society must have confidence that the development of knowledge and the perception of what is valid knowledge are not governed by special interests. Research by the contracting entity and the contracting entity are the characteristics of a contract for the performance of a research work. As a general rule, the contracting entity contributes to the funding of research and formulates issues and is interested in using the results. In addition, the contracting entity tends to have a formal or actual right to exercise a certain influence or control over the project. At the same time, it is important for this research to maintain its independence, both in the interests of credibility and in the interests of long-term users. The Ministry of Knowledge standard contract for mission research seeks to ensure this and has stated that the contractor is not responsible for the outcome of the mission. The standard contract also confers upon the contractor the right to publish the research results. I have now started a work to improve the standard contract and make it more known. Last week I sent out a letter to all my colleagues in the government, where I made them aware of the existence of the standard contract and the importance that the contracting authority also uses it. And I would like to stress that it is particularly important that contracting authorities facilitate free research.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1295	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that she shares her view of academic freedom as she did in the letter she wrote to the Committee when this proposal for a representative was being discussed. But there she wrote quite clearly what measures she could expect to implement, and this letter was written on 30 November last year, i.e. for approx. A year ago. Now she says in her reply today that she «already last week» sent a letter to her colleagues in the other departments and made it clear what should be the government's policy at first. After all, I get the impression that the writings of the Evening Post have led to a very rapid reaction from the Council of State, whereas a unanimous increase of 16 February this year has not resulted in anything at all. I wonder if the Council of State can elaborate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1304	The letter that I have now sent to my colleagues in the government refers to a standard contract that was actually established in 2006. It was reviewed in 2008. We then examined how it was used, whether it was known and how we could possibly improve it. So this isn't about something that's come up with right now. What I did now was send out a letter to remind my government colleagues that there is a standard contract. In fact, the question was, in addition, something other than what is involved in the ministry's own contracts. What academic freedom going beyond the university and higher education sectors is about is how we are going to overthrow the academic freedom of the institutions that are not affected by universities and colleges. We've recently received that input from the Research Council. As I said, it is to be assessed in the ministry and is likely to affect the work of such contracts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1309	I should like to refer to the replies of the Council of State to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which was written on 30 November last year. It states that, in order to further strengthen the principle, it will nevertheless be considered to use the State Basic Funding Guidelines of research institutes to clarify the right to academic freedom of the institutions covered by this scheme. I believe that the state council's very clear clarification of what could easily be implemented a year ago led the government parties to join the opposition's proposal in this matter, so that it was a unanimous committee that asked the staff to implement this. The government's parties may have thought that this was going to open doors. But these doors were obviously not so open yet. I believe that it would be easy for the Council of State to implement what she herself stated in the letter a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1316	It is a relatively complex process, which the representative of Warloe is also aware of. The Committee discussed in the context of the proposal for a representative on whether or not to legislate on the clarification of academic freedom in addition to higher education. It's a pretty complicated and demanding job. Anyway, we need guidelines for this work. It has not been done in a manual to get it implemented in new guidelines, or possibly to think of a legislative work. However, I agree that both departments and other contracting entities have obviously not been fully aware of the contracts and provisions in force, and it has been necessary for me to point out the difference between concluding a research contract and concluding a contract for normal investigation or consulting work. It was necessary to do that. That is why I have clarified this now, in the letter to which it is referred. But we're still working on the best possible way to get academic freedom laid down in contracts other than those that specifically concern universities and colleges. It's an important work that I'm putting great emphasis on now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1327	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘123 703 poultry died during transport to slaughterhouses last year. This high figure may have several reasons. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the number of feathers dying during transport is kept as low as possible, within reasonable limits?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1336	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bredvold, for his question. I am pleased with every opportunity to discuss important issues relating to animal welfare. I would like to point out at the outset that it is the responsibility of animal owners and other stakeholders involved to comply with the requirements and principles of the Animal Welfare Act. Compliance is supervised by the Food Authority and penalties where necessary. The economic operators individually and through the producer organisations must do their utmost to reduce the number of injuries by monitoring and prevention of occurrence and to ensure that the animals are treated with care during all stages of production. This has been taken up by the Food Authority with the industry. The industry has a clear responsibility to identify the critical points of production. The industry is also responsible for drawing up plans to prevent damage to animals during transport and slaughter. In total, more than 60 million poultry are transported to slaughterhouses in Norway each year. For chickens for fattening, the proportion dying during transport is between 0,15 pst. and 0.2 pst. In the transport of end-of-life laying hens, mortality is slightly higher, which can be largely attributed to the animal’s transport condition. In Norway, there has been a significant reduction in the number of end-of-life laying hens transported to slaughterhouses because a large proportion of these animals are killed on the farm and sent for destruction instead of being sent to slaughterhouses. Food surveillance supervises the transport of animals. According to the Food Safety Authority, for the transport of poultry for slaughter in practice, it would be possible to say that more or less all batches are controlled. The Food Safety Authority has informed me that their experience suggests that transport in days at extreme temperatures increases the risk of high mortality. In some cases, the Food Authority has found it necessary to adopt a ban on transport on certain days because the risk of high mortality due to extremely low outdoor temperatures has been too high. The condition of the animals during transport is of great importance as to how well they tolerate transport. It is important that producers focus on the separation and killing of animals not suitable for transport on site, instead of allowing them to be transported to the slaughterhouse. Especially in winter with low outdoor temperatures, the environment of the animals in the house is significant, because animals that are wet can die more effectively during transportation at low temperatures. This will also be an essential element in the assessment of the fitness of the animals to carry out the intended transport. Transport times are another important factor affecting animal welfare during transport. The industry must focus on reducing animal time in the transport boxes as much as possible, including: through good planning of the transport of goods and the time of slaughter. The planning of the plucking of animals by the producer is also essential to avoid animals remaining in transport containers unnecessarily for a long time before the actual transport begins. Each producer must pay particular attention to the transportability of the animals, with careful sorting of animals before transport. Manufacturers must also focus on the environment to avoid wet animals. Each producer, carrier and slaughterhouse must plan the transport of animals well in order to avoid animals staying in the transport units longer than is strictly necessary. With today's slaughterhouse structure, and for some expensive long transport, such measures are particularly important in order to seek to reduce mortality during transport as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1355	I thank the Council of State for a comprehensive response. What is worrying is that the number of dead animals has increased, even though this has been the focus of many years. I guess there's no doubt that all of us in this room are too animal welfare. I am also quite sure that both producers, carriers and slaughterhouses are, of course, also for good animal welfare. We all have a common goal here, I'm not in doubt about that at all. But what scares me is that the number of animals that die during transportation is increasing. There's still a lot to do here. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of life and to improve the quality of life and to improve the quality of life. so that the temperature within all slaughterhouse cars cannot be controlled. There are also great variations in the location of the damage in the country. I think there's a lot that still has to be done to bring down the large number of dead animals, because it's clear that 123 000 is a high number.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1364	I share Mr Bredvold's concern. I am very aware of the challenges that especially concern the transport of poultry. It is one thing that we will have a great deal of attention to in the future, namely the animal protection challenges related to the transport of chickens for fattening. Food surveillance is now planning a national surveillance campaign on chickens kept for slaughter in 2011. A focus area of this campaign is planned to be the transport of animals to slaughterhouses. This will include, inter alia: be focused on industry’s own responsibility for animal welfare and not least on the use of instruments by the Food Safety Authority when non-conformity is detected. Then I would like to stress that some of the problems can also be linked to the genetic properties of the animals. Norwegian producers are dependent on animal material from foreign breeders, because there is no breeding of poultry in Norway. A report from the EU Scientific Committee indicates that more recent high-growth chicken lines have a poorer structure. It makes them more vulnerable to fractures and deaths, so animal welfare challenges in chickens for fattening are subject to a high level of attention both in government and industry — national and international.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1371	I thank you once again for the answers of the Council of State. I understand that we have common goals here. There's no doubt about it. We also have some common solutions to this. But it is clear that something fairly fast has to happen, because this is not a new problem, and the problem has just gotten bigger and bigger. And something as simple as controlling the temperature inside the car, depending on what the temperature is outside the car, must be important. It should also be noted that mortality varies in different places in Norway. I believe that the whole chain, from the manufacturer to the carrier and to the slaughterhouse, must cooperate in terms of animal welfare. There may also be some animals from the producer that are not fit to be transported, whether they are damaged or, as the Council of State says, they may be wet animals. I myself have been to a slaughterhouse and saw that there may be a slightly different quality of the cars that transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1380	As I said, I am concerned about the same concern expressed by the representative, Mr Bredvold. I would like to stress that. It is therefore also the Food Safety Authority that will now implement a national surveillance campaign on chickens kept for slaughter in 2011, focusing on the transport of animals to the slaughterhouse. It is natural in this context to look at what kind of instruments you can have to improve the situation. I would like to pay great attention to this in the future, and I will take with me the signals that the representative of Bredvold has given in this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1385	Question 13 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1392	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘1. on July 2010, the grant scheme for ordinary computer equipment was terminated by the government. Now there are a number of examples where dyslexia students do not get the help they need at school. Following the announcement by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to the local assistance centres that ‘data equipment’ no longer receives State grants, the assistance centres have also stopped providing support for the use of pedagogically-organised software. Is this government's policy?'
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1401	The amendment to the legislation made as a result of the decision of the Storting with effect from 1 July of this year means that grants are no longer granted to ordinary computer equipment. Furthermore, the arrangement for lending ordinary computer equipment has been terminated with the exception of students and persons receiving training from the Employment and Welfare Act. These may continue to be lent by ordinary computer equipment if substantial adaptations to the computer equipment and the facilities require a total solution. The boundary between what is defined as an aid and what is a common consumer product will change over time. The reason for the Storting’s decision to remove social benefits for ordinary computer equipment is that these are equipment that has now become so common in the population that it can no longer be defined as an aid in the sense of the Law on Social Security. At the same time, prices of computer equipment in ordinary trade have fallen significantly in recent years. Where necessary, continued support is provided for custom computer equipment and software for the operation of ordinary computer equipment. Students needing special computer programs for reading, writing support and voice management will receive this from the Help Center in the same way as before. Furthermore, the assistance centre is responsible for installing administrative software and assistive software, while the school is responsible for installing educational software on school and home computers. It is important to stress that the rights of students under the Training Act have not changed as a result of the Storting decision. The school and pedagogical-psychological counselling service shall address the needs of the student. Those who do not have or are not able to benefit satisfactorily from the custom-made training offer are entitled to special education. If the purchase of a PC is necessary as a result of the establishment of primary school education at a school, the responsibility lies with the Law of Education of the municipality as a school owner. Students in primary and secondary schools who, by decision on special education, are entitled to a certain type of training equipment, are still entitled to such equipment irrespective of the economy of the municipality. Parents and supervisors may complain to the county if they believe that the municipality does not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1416	We can discuss how clever the decision that the majority of the population, the government parties, did, was, but after that time it has revealed a much larger consequence. Children with dyslexia no longer get help for the PC from the emergency centres, but on the contrary, it is assumed that all parents can buy it themselves. The consequences of the outbound circular are that it is now perceived that it is not only the physical PC that is not made available, but also software for the PC that is prepared for dyslexics. So in the short period that has passed since the decision was taken, it has been a fall of almost 65 pst. in the purchase of prepared dyslexia programmes from suppliers in Norway. That equals that it was going to be 65 pst. fewer students who now need help for their dyslexia. There would be a revolution in Norwegian school if it had been right. Does the government follow up on the consequences? Is the government monitoring that children get the organized offer they actually need? Or is this something you just hope went over?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1423	The government has a system to monitor how schools provide educational services, through the county. It is the county that has the possibility to verify that municipalities provide the appropriate training that municipalities should be able to provide. In the case of PCs, it is a fact that the vast majority of households with children today have access to PCs at home. The last numbers from the SSB say 89 pst, so we thought it was right to let the students use their own PCs. If the student needs software, it is the school's responsibility to make sure that the student gets it. If you need more customization of the PC, where the difficulties are particularly great, you can still get help from the help center.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1430	I understand correctly if what I am now going to understand from the Council's answer, is that it is not the responsibility of the agencies to provide software, but the responsibility of the schools. In the past, software has been provided by the assistance centres in connection with the delivery of the computer equipment. So you've been given the tools that, among other things, enable text to be read through the tools. These are hard-to-reach aids for a normal family, and there are a lot of schools that don't know about them. The work of the assistance centres to be a ‘competence hub’ for precisely this type of technology is weakened if those who are close to the children and have to assess what offers they need do not have competence in what is actually being developed. Then my question – back to the original one: Is it that you believe that software should not be delivered by the help centres, but by the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1437	As I said in my answer, there's a difference between what kind of software we're talking about here. Students who need special computer programs for reading, writing support and voice management will receive it from the help centres in the same way as before. However, many students have difficulty reading and writing, and then it is the municipality – through the PPT service and the actions taken there – that is the right place to contribute. That's the way it's been in the past. No changes have been made to the legislation in relation to the amendments adopted in the Stortinget, with effect from 1 July 2010. Yes, that's different. Some must leave the municipality, while more complex and demanding equipment requiring special adaptation will, as before, be available from the emergency centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1444	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-24.ana.ud993e1457	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the floor in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
