ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e30	The representatives Jan Arild Ellingsen and Heikki Holmås, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e41	On behalf of the representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Øyvind Håbreek and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for binding environmental measures for the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e46	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e58	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. Then we are ready to start with the first main question, which is from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e67	The debate on Norwegian elderly care continues. We receive daily reports from many older people who feel that they have failed, who feel cheated, who believe that they have perceived promises from the country's prime minister that only he was allowed to continue in his work, would all problems with Norwegian care for the elderly be solved – yes, it should be covered by the care of the elderly, I believe to remember that the Prime Minister said. But that's not the reality. There is a great shortage of nursing homes around the country, and many elderly people with significant illnesses have major problems simply because they do not get the care they should be demanding. And so we see an ageing uprising that increases in extent. Just before the weekend, we witnessed a prime minister who suddenly found a billion dollars, apparently, which he was going to give to the municipalities, and which he created at least the impression of would go to run new hospitals around the municipalities. The paradox is that about at the same time as the prime minister said it, the municipal minister came and said that it was absolutely not the situation, it was entirely up to the municipalities whether they would spend this money on care for the elderly, or whether they would rather give priority to paying off debts or spending money on other forms of investment, etc. Then I would like to take this opportunity to give the Prime Minister an opportunity to clarify this: Is it such that this money will be spent around the municipalities to improve the level, quality, Norwegian care for the elderly? Or is it that the municipalities are completely free to spend this money on what they want? I understood the Prime Minister there that this would go to the care of the elderly, and in that case, how many places does the Prime Minister think that we can assume that it will be of this billion in the next few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e74	The government did three things on Friday. First of all, we increased the free capital of the municipalities by 1 billion. kr, and they reach the 41 billion in increased income already received by municipalities. It is then that these 42 billion have now been given in four years – up to 2010 – which means that municipalities have been able to increase the number of annual works by 40,000. Large parts of it have come in care and care, and have also come in the care of the elderly. So the one thing we did was we increased the free income, and we know that a lot of it goes to the care sector. So it's going to be one billion up to 41 billion they've already received. So there is a historically strong increase in the income of municipalities, and significantly greater than the increase in the income of municipalities that came under the Progress Party-supported Bondevik II government, as the development of Norwegian municipalities was significantly worse than now. The second thing we did was we increased the earmarked contributions to care for the elderly. We did so by increasing the earmarked grant for the development of nursing homes and nursing homes by about 40 p.p., so that the state grant now amounts to 890,000 kroner. The eartag subsidy was also increased. So we increased the free resources of the municipalities, which are going to some extent to care for the elderly, and we increased the earmarks. The third thing we did on Friday was that we set out a regulation that defines very precisely what older people require of care – a proper form of living, a normal daily rhythm, a varied diet. In this way, we make demands on the municipalities in the law and regulations on what the elderly have a right to. So we have more free resources, more earmarked funds and better and stronger legislation. It is an expression that we follow up the escalation plan for the elderly that we adopted in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e87	We have had this debate before. Twenty years ago, in 1990, Stortinget also granted 1 billion. kr so called for care of the elderly. It was also free money. Then, in 1990, we received a look-up, among other things. in VG, ‘older billion for data acquisition’. We're going to have more of that kind of lookup. This was when Senior General Hovda was in the worst condition, and there are many of the older people out there who remember. He was frustrated because the kind of extra appropriations did not give permanent operating resources to the municipalities, nor did he guarantee that the money was actually used for care of the elderly, but, as in this case, for data purchase, or for a number of other purposes. What this in any case tells us is that this debate never ends. The reason why it does not end is that we have a system that ends in total liability powdering. We have a government that is responsible for later on. The truth is that that is the municipality that has, and then we won't solve this until we introduce a statutory right and a financial responsibility that the state takes 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e94	We are now managing the care of the elderly in the same way that we run the school. There we have laws and rules that say what students have a right to. Now we have laws and rules that say what the elderly have a right to. Then we ensure that municipalities receive both free income – the needs vary slightly in different municipalities, and therefore it is wise that they can be used slightly differently in different municipalities – and also earmarked grants. On Friday we increased the earmarked grants by 40 pst. It would have been unusual if Siv Jensen had at some point been a bit satisfied that it was 40 p.m. on Friday. increase in earmarked elderly care grants. I believe that the municipalities need a combination, and that's what has done that we get a strong expansion. We're not on target. We're not satisfied. But we see that by using 42 billion. More on municipalities – half are free resources, about half are earmarked – we have had a strong improvement in many areas, including care and care, and we will continue to develop care and care in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e103	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and there is occasion for this – first Jon Jäger Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e106	Together with the so-called ageing effort, a dignity guarantee was launched. Since 1997, however, we have had a quality regulation for the care sector. It says that the older ones will be able to get up whenever they want, lie down whenever they want, go to the bathroom when they need, eat when they want, get lonely, have a social life with activities, have a protected privacy, have an individualised medical offer and not least get a decent end of life. In short, the quality regulation must ensure that caregivers have their basic needs met in a dignified manner. Parents who have not received such an offer have had a right of appeal since 1997. What, then, is new with this new guarantee of dignity? Aren't these just the same phrases in a new package? Does this even mean a bet? Is this going to give us a warm and dignified care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e111	Now, the new thing is that we're collecting the rights that older people have, in one law, in one regulation. I believe that it makes it easier and more transparent to find out what older people have a right to. There are also new and more precise formulations of what older people are entitled to, as a result of the reconciliation of the government with the Left and Christian People's Party, and which we now follow up with our own regulation. And we've warned that we're going to simplify the appeal procedure, so that those who don't get what they're demanding or need should be able to come up with their demands more easily. There are many things we do to ensure better care for the elderly. We presented a comprehensive plan in 2008 precisely because we felt that care for the elderly in Norway was not good enough. And then we're building rock on rock towards 2015, and we're following up on the targets that we set. Fortunately, the vast majority of older people in Norway have a good offer and receive the care they need. So there's some exceptions and there's some missing, and we're doing something about that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e120	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e123	TV 2 has documented on a case-by-case basis a lack of hospital places. This culminated in the fact that the government felt pressured to give the municipalities an extra billion. The municipal councils are told by the municipal minister that this is a free billion, while large parts of the government otherwise talk about it being an older billion. It puts a pressure on the municipalities, it creates an expectation pressure that makes the residents claim the municipality, and that makes the municipality feel that they are in a forced situation. This happens once and for all. The Prime Minister appears in a nursing home – yes, it seems that it is easier for the Prime Minister to get a sick home or go to a hospital than it is for the elderly. Every time there is a crisis in the care of the elderly, the government comes with a few extra dollars, this time a one-time billion. Does the Prime Minister realize that municipalities are facing a crisis of expectations, where citizens are given the impression that care for the elderly should now be provided, while in reality there is only a small amount of money available to the government every time a crisis in the care of the elderly is documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e131	We don't bring any change. We're bringing 42 billion. kr to the municipalities, and it has given 40000 new annual works. When the Right put in government, over four years came 8 000 new annual works, so we have financed a five times as much growth in municipal welfare production as then you put in government and spent billions of dollars on tax incentives rather than care for the elderly. In fact, the last year you put in charge, the number of annual jobs went down in care. With us it's gone up. We're still not in the goal, but 42 billion. kr – one extra on Friday – is not small money, it is massive bet. Then we need even more, and therefore we need to continue spending money on community care and care, instead of a irresponsible tax policy, for which the Right stands, and which did not allow us to escalate care and care in the municipalities when you were in charge. We have to keep going. So we provided both free money on Friday, and – in addition – increased appropriations for earmarked funds. We need both.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e140	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e143	Every day, the new sick elderly are exposed who do not receive a decent care for the elderly. The municipalities are today in the wild after the extra billion that the government has granted after much pressure from several teams, not least the Christian People's Party. In the case of the guarantee of dignity, it shall grant enhanced rights, it shall cost money and the municipalities shall be compensated. It's downfield. So it was in its place that there was a billion, but it's far from enough. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister share the clear assumption that this billion will be continued next year and that it will be stepped up further? Without that, we will not be able to implement the guarantee of dignity, which we agree will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e150	First, I want to commend the Christian People's Party for working hard on the cause of the elderly for many years. I will commend them for the cooperation we have had on the agreement on the elderly, and I am pleased that you are following up in the future as well. It only underlines the importance of choosing not to cooperate on tax relief, but on more money for care and care. There will be even more money for the municipalities. There will be several billions in the 2011 budget, and I suppose I can already leak from the 2012 budget and say that there will be yet another billion in 2012 to Norwegian municipalities. Just how many billions I dare not say now, but that there will be several billion to the municipalities, I am absolutely sure. And that's among other things. because we're going to follow up the plan we've put together about stepping up, with new year's work, with new hospitals. We've been following it up every year since 2008, and we're also going to follow up in 2011 and 2012 with several billion dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e157	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e160	Under the heading «I am the enemy», a female founder, Kathrine Evensen, in the VG on Sunday, the prime minister asks whether she and her employees are less caring than those employed in the municipalities. Kathrine Evensen has created 57 jobs in the care of the elderly. 90 pst. of those who work for her come from a rehabilitation, rehabilitation and rehabilitation situation. Now they're working on solving one of the most important tasks in our society: providing good care and care for the elderly. If I were to speak the way the Prime Minister used to talk, I would say that when it comes to Kathrine Evensen, it's not just care, but it's double care. But Kathrine Evensen doesn't realize that the Prime Minister and the government are talking about her and her work. On the contrary, her company is fighting to survive, for the government has done the most to make it difficult. She perceives that the Prime Minister repeatedly sends out signals that her company and her employees are a threat to the welfare state and the Norwegian model – not that they give double care, but that it is double unsocial. On Monday, government councillor Audun Lysbakken announced that it will be more difficult for private child protection in the future. 50 pst. of the children of institutions in Norway are in a child protection institution run by private individuals. So, according to the government, they're going to have to get it tougher. So despite major deficiencies in public child protection, the government says no to those who think of being entrepreneurs, and who have the opportunity to solve it. We see the same thing on the kindergarten side, where full babysitting has been done through collaboration with private people. And municipalities that now want to cooperate with housing teams to achieve the goal of nursing homes for everyone are told that no, they are not allowed to do so, rather the government will be committed to community solutions. Why this war against private, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e173	I'm too private, I'm too private. I've been saying it for years, and I can repeat it here. I also say it in almost every spontaneous question hour, but still one continues to create the impression that the government is against private people who contribute, among other things. health and care. I was the prime minister in 2000–2001 when we introduced the permanent reform. There is a reform of primary health services based on private individuals. In the fixed medical system, it is private who provide healthcare to municipalities. I am now Prime Minister of a government that has had the time of the expansion of kindergartens, which has increased the state grant to kindergartens, and which has had the largest expansion ever of private kindergartens. We would not have been close to achieving our goals if we had not also used private kindergartens as a significant contributor to this development. So within the permanent reform and within kindergartens, this government and former governments I've been sitting in have provided massive investment in private, in drug care and rehabilitation as well – massive use of private. Privates do a great job, and that's very good. What we're against is not that private contributions, whether they're private ideals or private commercials, like us, for example. has a lot of it in the kindergarten sector and in the permanent medical system. What we are against is that the market should rule. Then we are in order for the public to take responsibility, and then we have to provide more money and spend money on kindergarten, on care and on rehabilitation rather than new, irresponsible tax concessions. Then there will be a lot of care tasks both for municipal employees to solve and for private employees to solve. We have even set up a separate scheme for entrepreneurs where we say we should give priority to women entrepreneurs, and under the scheme of research and development contracts in Innovation Norway, the health and care sector is a priority area. Thus, through the State agency, we provide additional support to female entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in the health and care sector. We have many conflicts and many problems in politics, but trying to create conflicts that are not there, I think, is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e186	The red-green government may say they're too private, but they set foot for the private every single day, and that gives the same kind of signals. In the area of the greatest political debate now, namely, the question of how to bring about full health care coverage, in view of all those who need it, we should use all the good forces in the same way that was done in kindergarten development by many private contributions. But there the government has said no. The government has clearly stated that it is not relevant for municipalities to be allowed to cooperate with private or residential construction teams to build hospitals, despite the fact that in the 1990s we built 6,000 nursing and nursing homes in cooperation with private people, just to provide a better offer. It doesn't hold that the Prime Minister says he's too private, when his government makes guidelines every day or sets foot for the private people who want to take care of this society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e195	The fact that we've invested in private is not just something we say, it's something we've done in practice within, for example. the nursery sector. It's like we've had a massive expansion of kindergartens. Half, or at least a large proportion, have been private kindergartens, which are the direct result of this government increasing the appropriations for kindergartens, both private and municipal, to an extent that the previous government was not in the vicinity of doing. That's why it's not empty talk, but it's reality. Many children go to kindergartens that are privately run, established as a result of this government's policy. In the area of health care, we also have extensive private use. And because we have increased the appropriations for these purposes, in many of these areas there are also now more private than a few years ago. In the case of grants, we are committed to not providing large grants and then private cashe is required to make large profits by selling out the values they have received through government grants. We are now looking at the possibilities of including housing laws. If it is possible to do so without it being contrary to EEA law, we will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e206	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e209	It does not help that the Prime Minister says that he is too private when his own government every day prevents individuals from helping to solve our great welfare problems. Housing teams are prevented from building hospitals. Those who run private kindergartens are currently very concerned about what framework conditions they will have in the future. Drug institutions are being laid down throughout the country. Rehabilitation agencies are being set up throughout the country. Today, we have received news that Oslo's oldest psychiatric hospital, Oslo Hospital, is to be closed down. The Prime Minister cannot possibly read Norwegian newspapers if he tries to present it as if this government is working with good private forces to solve our major welfare challenges. His own State Councillor Lysbakken last said on Monday that the new child protection strategy would involve more difficult conditions for private individuals. What makes the Prime Minister think that private entrepreneurs are still willing to face and solve social challenges every day when they are perceived as the enemy of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e217	It is not that private individuals who contribute to the welfare society are the enemy. On the contrary, they are important partners. We've also used them to solve some of the biggest and most important problems, such as: Childcare reform. It would not have been possible without this government increasing the subsidy to both private and municipal kindergartens. The permanent reform is in the same category. In a lot of what we've done in other areas, we've also used ourselves for private purposes. But that doesn't mean we can guarantee that every single private supplier will have contracts into eternity. For example, we've now done two things within child protection: one is that we're going to bet more on foster homes. In that case, there will be a less need for institution spaces within child protection, and then we will have to step down within it. In the area of rehabilitation, we have experienced that there has been a build-up of capacity, for example: in the West, where there was too little offer. This has meant that Westerners are sent to the East to a lesser extent, and then some institutions are being built up here. We need that kind of reorganization in the welfare sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e222	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e225	We had not reached a goal without a private one, says the Prime Minister about the kindergartens. However, public and private are not treated in the same way in the care of the elderly, as they did in the childcare arrangement. Then there's another reason why we got into goal with the kindergartens, and it was that we said there should be government funding also in operation. There is also state funding for the operation of the decision-makers, to which the Prime Minister refers, which is also a successful public-private cooperation. The question then arises as to how long the elderly will wait before the government realizes that we should target a good care for the elderly, there must also be a government financing of operations, and it must be attached to rights, such as permanent and nursery facilities, and public and private matters must be treated in the same way as a child care agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e232	In the case of care for the elderly, the municipalities themselves decide how to organise it, only to ensure that the requirements imposed by the State include: in the dignity guarantee, is met. That means that some municipalities rate 100 pst. in municipal care for the elderly, other municipalities are increasingly paying for private care for the elderly, and some rates for a combination of private commercial services, and others are using private non-profit institutions serving households. I leave it safely to the municipalities to decide. I have not intended to sit and override the municipalities in terms of different forms of organisation, as long as our requirement that they provide good and proper care for the elderly is met. Because we have provided significantly more money to municipalities, municipalities will be more able to use both municipal elderly care services and private elderly care services. Then we have an important debate about whether to discriminate, or – what to say – discriminate, different private. That's the question of whether we should say that private ideas have a greater role to play than private commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e239	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e242	We had a similar question hour before the summer, where the municipal minister was here and responded to what had to do with housing laws and housing. Then we came to understand that there were ideological reasons why the government would not allow municipalities to make agreements with private housing laws. I tried to get an answer that it was possible to understand. I wonder if the Prime Minister will also get the same question, because it seems as if there is a little bit of time to open up to this. So what's the reason for this, for example? The municipality of Skien, my own municipality of residence, cannot make an agreement with Skien Boligbygelag that they can start building e.g. care homes that are badly needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e249	First I want to clear up a misunderstanding. I don't have any ideological barriers to housing. On the contrary, I consider housing laws to be something very reliable and proper, which I have a very good sense of. It's a social-democratic invention, at least I feel very related to it. So, I'm for every form of housing everywhere. That's the one. The second is that we are struggling to find a way of dealing with the legislation so that we do not break the EEA rules in relation to discrimination between individuals, i.e. a private law of residence, and a commercial builder. The challenge is to make sure that the money used by the public does not generate private, large commercial gains by realising a sale afterwards, but that they remain in the care of the elderly. If we solve that problem, I'll make sure that the housing laws are also allowed to expand hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e256	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e259	I'm going to be part of Velferds-Norway for which the Prime Minister is also for, the non-profit sector, those who run on a non-profit basis. Every day, we receive new messages that reputable institutions in the health and care sector, drug addiction, child protection and the non-profit sector in general need to close down thanks to the competition policy, the tendering policy for which this government is responsible. Today, our country presents a long list of institutions that have either been closed, have lost their tender or are threatened with closure as a result of this policy. It's the institutions of the sanitary women, it's the Red Cross institutions, there's a lot of institutions of the Salvation Army and the Blue Cross institutions, to name a few. It's institutions that built this country's well-being long before we got an ambitious welfare state. There are institutions that have been pioneers but also do a great job in a variety of offers to a group of people who – for many people – are waiting for help. There are 4 000 addicts in line, there are many in line in psychiatry. It seems to me that the government likes them well, but they let this happen. They let faceless bureaucrats run this system through without intervening. And today, we are told that Oslo Hospital, founded in 1290 by Frans of Assisi's descendants here in the city, who have survived the Black Death, will not survive Jens Stoltenberg's government. Then my question is, will the government do anything about this? Do you want to intervene and stop this tendering practice and get a new regime that is appropriate for the non-profit institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e270	When an enterprise loses a tender, it is normal that one has either a significantly higher price and/or a lower quality than the other that submits a tender. I got in the last round of comprehensive questions from the Right and the Advance Party, which are concerned that there is too little competition and too little tender, and that commercial private operators do not fit, and now I get questions about how I can prevent the commercial operators from competing outright. As I said, I think it's an interesting and important discussion and process we're now in, whether to have any differences between different types of private actors, that is, the commercial and the ideal. But in general, I can say, without going into the individual examples, that it's not that we can guarantee that anyone who's had a mission on behalf of the public, even though they're ideal actors, will be guaranteed a mission in the future. It's partly because in some areas it's the way we add. Child protection is an example of that. When we say that fewer children are going to be in children's homes, and more children are going to be in foster homes, it is clear that some of the people who provided childcare services lost their jobs because more children are going to be in foster homes. I can see that is a problem for those institutions that provided orphanage services. But all in all, we think it's better for the children to be in foster homes than in orphanages, and we can't keep the orphanages for the sake of those who run orphanages. It is the children's needs that must be crucial. That's one example of why we see some conversions. Another example is geography. We have tried to expand both child protection services and rehabilitation services closer to where people live. And that also leads to someone who's had a mission, not necessarily in the future. A third crucial factor is simply that we have to choose those that give the best quality at the best price, and so it's not always the way to carry on a mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e281	With all due respect for the country's prime minister – now he speaks as a CEO of AS Velferds-Norway. What I'm talking about is a fundamental value in Norwegian society, which is that over the centuries we've had institutions that have been channels for humanity, for Norwegian spirit of virtue, to take responsibility for people in need. Restructuring is necessary. I'm not talking about permanent protection. But I ask if the government will continue its passive spectator role and see that these valuable professional environments experience a restriction or closure every week. It doesn't just affect them, it also affects their users. It affects children's protection who don't have a free foster home by hand, because it's queues to get to foster homes. It goes beyond addicts who do not have an alternative treatment offer, because there are 4,000 of them in state-owned cows. The question is: will the government take an active step to stop this development that has been documented today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e289	So we're talking about a lot of different examples and cases, and that's why it's a little bit difficult to be completely general. But e.g. in the field of child protection, it is true that some non-profit institutions have not been allowed to continue their contracts. As we've been through, it could be due to more relationships. One thing is that some of the people who have been evaluated do not have good quality. It is then right that they should not continue their contracts, for the sake of the children. Another aspect is that we take children out of orphanages and into foster homes, and then there's less need for children's homes. A third factor that causes some ideals not to be awarded is that they do not offer to the children who are still going to be in an institution, namely children with drug problems. There are reasons why not everyone in the field of child protection is allowed to continue their contracts. I can see that is painful, but the crucial thing must be what's best for the children. Within the drug, we have had a significant expansion. But once again, the quality is not always good enough, or the prices are reasonable, and the government has developed its own offers that make you not buy private in all areas the same. The crucial thing is that we make a good offer to the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e298	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e301	The Prime Minister says he feels a close relation to the law of residence. I didn't want to suggest that the Prime Minister could have been the janitor in such a situation, but there'll be a lot of talk and little action. Last week we were presented with the red list for the diversity of species, the basis of life in Norwegian nature. Today, the Christian People's Party presents the redlist to ideal diversity, the basis of life in the Norwegian welfare society. It's actually about self-esteem. So the question to the Prime Minister is: is Norway getting warmer or colder because the following offers are abandoned or threatened by closure? I mention Askøy Blå Kors Klinik, the Salvation Army Sunglött, Drammen, NKS’ Klöverhagen, Svolvær, the Salvation Army in Hotvedtvedtvejen, Drammen, Dreiseskivå–Kirkens Bymisjon, Rogaland, Blå Kors poliklinik, Sandnes, Solfeng, the Salvation Army in Oslo, Duedalen Blå Kors Thandlungszentrum, Sunstrand Kinderverzenter, Church Social Service, Petershagen, Lena, the Salvation Army Rusomsorg in Bjørnsonsonsgaten in Bergen, Solbu, Oslo, NKS’ Sykehotell i Lørenskog, NKS’ Klöverhagen in Ringebu, the Children’s and Family Protection of the Salvation Army, Trugheim [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e310	The crucial thing for me when we build welfare services is that there are good services for those who need them, the users. Whether it's in the field of child protection, or it's in the field of psychiatry, it's always the most important thing that we provide an offer that's best for those who need psychiatric treatment, drug treatment, child protection — what it might be. That's when I say that there may be different reasons why you don't continue the agreements. I don't know all of these examples, but there might be different reasons. One is that we change child protection – we have e.g. the need for orphanages less than we had before, for the sake of children. The second is that we have expanded several public offerings within a number of areas. For example, in psychiatry and intoxication, there has been a strong expansion. More people are being treated now than before. It doesn't mean there's any degradation, it's conversion and expansion. Nevertheless, individual institutions are not allowed to continue their contracts. It could be quality, and it could be price. But it may also be that we add the whole offer, and believe that we get a better offer by offering other offers than what they offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e319	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e322	It's almost incredible to stand here and listen to the Prime Minister talk so that one could think there was overcapacity in child protection, while we know that there are many children out there who are suffering today. They are in line for treatment because of government aversion to private – it will not use private institutions. That is the reality. So it's nice to stand here and hear the Prime Minister talk about that we need the private ones, and that he's happy about what they've contributed to. But the reality today is that this government is undermining the private sector. Once they have reached their target, they shall hit the legs of the private operators. That is the reality. What we see over and over again is that this government will not use private actors. Whether it's ideal, or whether it's private, it's the same thing. But we have to establish that we need the private actors in society. What I want to ask the Prime Minister is, is, is that there is overcapacity in child protection? Is there overcapacity in the care and in the psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e331	First of all, about what's private, because here the opposition cracks a little bit. Firstly, the Progress Party and the Right started with a desire to facilitate private commercials and showed examples of this. From the Christian People's Party one is dedicated to keeping the private commercial away and ensuring that one discriminates for the benefit of private ideals. So here's what the opposition really thinks about private -- who's private, what private you're for, and what private you're against. So that's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Item No 2: What I'm saying is that it's e.g. In the area of child protection, when we have come to the conclusion that we want more children in foster homes, which are also private, there is less need for private orphanages. It's a conversion we do for the sake of the children. Then there will be slightly fewer children in private orphanages, but more children in private foster homes. Then I say that the private ideals don't have the ability to offer the heaviest cases to children with drug problems. It has public or some private commercial.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e342	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e345	There are many ways to conduct policies. There are those who make it ideologically clear, like this. during the 2005 election campaign. Then the representatives of the government that was elected told them to stop the privatisation. And they've got the jam ready to do! They've been breaking the institution after five years. It's a little uncomfortable for the Prime Minister to see the results of his own policy. So now he picks the administrative line. They've created some systems that kill these. I have even some other ideas, but the systems are killing both private ideals and private commercial or entirely non-profit organizations today. This government does not believe in diversity, it does not believe in freedom of choice – it only believes in tenders. I think tenders are good sometimes, but I think freedom of choice is also good. I think there are many sets of contract systems that public can have, if the idea is that diversity and more offers are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e352	First of all, I believe in the following: if we are to have good welfare offers, either in the private sector or in the public sector, we need more money in the common fund. The big difference between the government and the opposition is that we think we should spend the big money on welfare, not on taxes. The second is that I think we have shown in practice that we work well with private people. We've done it with regard to kindergartens, we've done it with care and we've done it in many other areas. The third is that one of the reasons some private ideas are now losing their jobs is because they are out of competition from private commercials. What the right soon has to decide is whether they are for everyone private, or whether they believe as a Christian People's Party, that we should make our own arrangements for private ideals, so that we keep the private commercial away. There it cracks very civilly, and it's quite confusing. The crucial thing here is that we keep looking for what is the best solution for the users. That's what this government does, and it's using both public and private.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e363	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e367	A number of recent media headlines, in particular through the NRC and also the newspaper Nordlys, have revealed the problem of radical Islamists contributing to the financing of mosques in Norway. They even send imams to Norwegian mosques to spread their message. It has been revealed that these imams contribute to spreading hatred towards the West, hatred against Jews. It's even suggested that this is how you want to prepare terrorist actions on Norwegian soil. It's pretty dramatic revelations that have come lately. The response from the government, both from the Minister of Justice and from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, has been that this is, as it were, taken very seriously. But I record that this government is standing without action to meet the dark ideology of Islamism that spreads all over Europe. You might say like Jonas Gahr Støre, that if I get a request from a mosque for funding from, for example. Saudi Arabia, I'll put my foot down. He's also done that in one case. But it assumes (a) that the question comes, and (b) that if you get a negative answer, it is followed by the individual mosque. It's not necessarily that you can regulate this in such a way. I record that as we experience a radicalisation of Muslim environments in Norway, emerging from what is a hostile, dangerous ideology, the government stands without action. Only the Progress Party has proposed something in the Storting, but it has been rejected by Jonas Gahr Støre. So my question is, what will the Prime Minister actually do to stop this development, other than to say no if you get a request?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e376	The representative showed, among other things: that there was money to organise terrorist actions and illegal activity. Well, we can stop that. We have a law. It is forbidden in Norway to prepare terrorist actions, so if the representative is aware of it, I think he should go to the police. Then the police and the police security service get to grips with what might be suspected of illegal activity in Norway, violation of Norwegian law and/or preparation, for example. for terrorist actions, because we are going to fight with all the means and use the police for that. But then there's another discussion that's not necessarily about committing illegal acts or preparing illegal acts, but that's about people defending positions and standing for values we deeply disagree with. The situation is that freedom of expression is often a little unpleasant. Freedom of expression is also about allowing those who believe something quite different from yourself to do so and to prejudice the positions, including organising meetings and activities to prejudice their positions. It is fundamental to freedom of expression that even those with whom we disagree should be allowed to address their own positions. I'm defending that right. So I'm going to meet those opinions with arguments, with participating in the debate. All of which, for example: I must say that women do not have the same rights as men, all those who say that we do not need democracy and freedom of expression, I shall fight with all my strength, but that is through argumentation. We shall meet those positions with arguments, not with a ban restricting freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is about giving rights to those you deeply disagree with. That is why we must take that value struggle, the spirit struggle, and defend our democratic, open rights, not by restricting democracy, but by using democracy against the undemocratic forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e383	This was reasonably clarifying what the Prime Minister's position is, and what is clearly the government's position in this field. It frightens me that the only way you really put up to meet the hatred towards the West, meet the Jew hate, meet the spread of the dark ideology Islamism, is to discuss – or dialogue, as Jonas Gahr Støre might have expressed it. It is to me a crown example that this government does not take the challenge seriously. Because it is not understood what integration means that Muslims in Norway are affected by such extreme forces, that it is an integrational nightmare we are talking about. We're talking about a development that's anything but desirable, and you have the opportunity to do something about it if you want to. This is not about freedom of expression. That's the purest nonsense! What this is all about is taking a clear stand for extreme forces. [[The President clubs.]] You would have done it if you had done it, for example. were Nazi groupings and other kinds of extreme ideologies, but obviously one dares not do the same with Islamism. My question is then: why do you not want to stop the funding of imams to Norway? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e394	The representative is on considerable overtime!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e397	I'm dealing with the clock, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e402	Yes, but for follow-up questions, speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e405	I trust the clock!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e410	The Prime Minister will now have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e413	We're going to use illegal acts to fight the police and the judiciary. If it's coercion, if it's sexual mutilation, or if there's preparations for acts of terrorism, we're going to use police and force against it. But if we talk about legal acts – opinions, opinions we don't like – we're not going to use the police to fight it. Then we're going to use the instruments of democracy. There is freedom of religion in Norway, there is freedom of expression in Norway, also in the case of religions and expressions that we do not like. I have experience that it is actually quite effective to fight fundamentalists that way. I believe that in the case of neo-Nazis, who are not banned as a group, we have managed to combat the extreme attitudes through it. Without any comparison, I believe that those who were Marxist-Leninists in the 1970s stood for quite extreme and very strange positions. It was not solved by banning them, but by combating them by democratic means. I would like to take part in a fight against all the values that are conveyed that are about discriminating women, but that is about religion that is being falsified in a crazy way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e420	It will be a follow-up question – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e423	I'm sorry to have to say that, but what the Prime Minister is calling for is not entirely in touch. We are all equally concerned about freedom of expression, but on this issue, we have the situation that it is forbidden in Norway to finance democratic political parties with foreign capital, while it is accepted that foreign capital is used to finance the establishment of fundamentalist extreme groups that express the challenge of democracy and freedom of expression in the West in some way. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simple. Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre has said that he will stop the kind of foreign financing of these extreme groups, if he receives a request. Is it then the government's intention to stop this funding, but for the sake of what the Prime Minister referred to, freedom of expression, cannot really do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e431	What the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done and has said, and in which I fully agree with him, is that where authority is requested, one will not get it, especially in those cases where countries that do not themselves practice religious freedom and allow, for example, that. mision activities shall provide support. However, in general, to oppose State aid to, for example: The exercise of religion in other countries is a little difficult for a country such as Norway, which has a long experience of mitioning, and which has a long experience with mariner churches, which is also an expression of religion practiced in other countries. But once again, we're at the top point, which is that there's a lot I don't like in the world. I can't ban everything I don't like, but I can fight it. And the experience is that with open democratic means, it's amazing what we're doing to combat if we trust our own values, our own attitudes. I am going to fight all that there is of fundamentalism, all that there is of discrimination and undemocratic attitudes relating to different religions, and I will do so with all my strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e438	Then we go to the next main question, which is from the representative Bent Höie. The President sees that it may be possible to raise six main questions, thus becoming the next main question from Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e443	The latest figures from the Health Directorate show that the government of Stoltenberg has set a new record in health cows since the introduction of the health reform – 277 614 waiting for help in our hospitals per the second quarter of 2010. When Stoltenberg was prime minister in his first government, he said that the waiting times were not to be measured in months and years, but in days and weeks. Then the bourgeois government took over – the queues went down, and the waiting time was reduced. After Stoltenberg took over again, in 2005, the queues have increased again and the waiting time has increased, so that many now actually wait for help for months and years. Health cows have increased by 77 000 patients under the red-green government. We spend more money, and more people are being treated, is the Prime Minister's traditional answer to this question. Well, it has all the prime ministers in Norway after the war could say, but the previous prime minister, Kjell Magne Bondevik, could also say that the health cows went down, the waiting time went down. This Prime Minister must be able to make health cows grow and wait longer. A general manager who contacted me needed a knee operation to work at work, but was told that the clinic has used up the knee quota this year. That means he has to wait until next year to get his knee operated. In the meantime, he must be sick. The pensioner Roar Bruun has also written a letter to the Prime Minister asking why he has to wait eight weeks for an X-ray, when there is free capacity if one is willing to pay NOK 2000 himself. He was also told that the x-ray was rationalized in allowances. Patients in queue have the following questions to the Prime Minister: When will the government realize that a health care allowance must be removed in order to reduce the waiting time and cut the hospital queues?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e458	We're treating more patients now than we did in 2005. There are 78 000 more patients treated in Norwegian hospitals, both public and private. Overall, there has been an increase of 78 000. 70 pst. by those admitted to a Norwegian hospital are admitted for immediate treatment, and there is zero queue. The vast majority of those admitted without the need for immediate treatment are admitted without delay. However, there are some — a minority, but serious enough — who do not receive treatment after the prescribed deadlines. That is why we are going to continue to expand the treatment capacity and ensure that even more people are treated in Norwegian hospitals. But what's the challenge with regard to hospital cows is that they're not always an expression of something going the wrong way. It could also be an expression that something actually goes the right way. This is because we can treat new disorders. For example, over the last few years we have been able to provide new groups of treatment, including treatment. Those with heart fibrillation. It's people who haven't been treated before. Then it wasn't a queue. Now we can give people treatment for heart fibrillation. Then suddenly there arose a queue there. It's not an expression of a worse offer; it's actually an expression of a better offer. In the past, there were zero queues for the treatment of heart fibrillation, because they were not treated. Now people get treatment, and then it's a queue, but also more people get treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e467	When one listens to the Prime Minister, one must almost believe that it is the fate that makes the queues increase when Stoltenberg is prime minister, while they went down when Bondevik was prime minister. It is obvious that the factors referred to by the Prime Minister were as impelling when Bondevik was prime minister, as when Stoltenberg is prime minister. The consequences of government health policy are longer queues, and queues that are slower ahead. The consequence is that in Norway we now have a more two-part healthcare system than ever. Older people who turn to get the X-rays are told that they can enter the day if they pay NOK 2000 themselves, but they have to wait for three months if they are going into a publicly funded healthcare system. The Prime Minister tends to say in the Questionnaire that he is proud of the government's work, but he is not satisfied. Is the Prime Minister proud and satisfied that this government has created the most two-part healthcare we have ever seen in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e476	I am not satisfied with the state of the Norwegian health care system. That's why we've done several things. One is that we have provided increased appropriations, so that we now treat 78 000 more people in Norwegian hospitals, both private and public. I'm still not satisfied. That is why we have also launched a very comprehensive reform, the Interaction Reform, which aims to ensure that many of the problems in hospitals are solved by reducing the number of hospital admissions, and that several of those who have been treated are printed out by hospitals. This will give priority to those who actually need hospital treatment. So thirdly, the main goal of success or failure is how many people actually get treatment. I believe that the example of people with heart fibrillation – there are other disorders where new groups are treated – and there is a queue, shows that sometimes it is an expression that we are actually making progress, because previously there was zero treatment for people with heart fibrillation. And we're going to keep doing that. We know that the technology that enables us to treat new disorders, and ageing in the population means that we are going to have a lot of needs in the health care system in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e483	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e486	Children and young people in need of mental health protection were on average waiting two and a half months for help in their last reporting. In Health North, the waiting time is three months. Last year there were 4,700 children and young people who did not get help in time. Only 17 were offered treatment elsewhere, as the Patient Rights Act gives the right to. Several institutions that have agreed to deal with time-limits indicate that they have not been referred to any patients. They're ready to treat these children, but they're not allowed. The right has suggested that children and young people in need of mental health care should not wait until the deadline is broken, but get help where there is immediate availability. Why doesn't the government want this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e493	With regard to the supply of mental health to children and young people, there is an example of slightly different developments in waiting times — some good news and some bad news. In the case of children and young people, that's good news. Waiting times have decreased in the last year, from 76 days to 74 days. It is an expression of the fact that the efforts we have had on mental health give results — several receive treatment — and in this case the waiting times are also reduced. So we're betting on this and building it out, because we know that maybe among the most vulnerable groups are just kids and young people without a good enough health offer in the field of mental health protection. We will continue to allocate money and increase efforts in the field of mental health protection, and in particular it is important to continue the development of both better supply and reduced waiting times for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e498	Morten Stordalen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e501	There are nearly 5 000 drug users in line. Hospital waiting lists and waiting times are increasing. In addition, we have a huge spare capacity at the private sector. So, as if that's not enough, the government chooses to reduce important health services across the country when it comes to removing the functions and capacity of local hospitals. In these days, the Prime Minister is met with a campaign from residents in Kristiansund and on the North Sea, where he is confronted with a previous breach of promises. Can the Prime Minister try to explain to me and the inhabitants of Norway how to reduce waiting times and waiting lists all the time he refuses to use private capacity, and in addition does local hospitals rage in More and Romesdal and in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e509	The question began by referring to the problems of treatment in the care of drug users. It's also an area where we have expanded our capacity – 1 billion. NOK more after we took over. Several treatment clients, and also in drug treatment, have been reduced from 79 to 73 days from the second tertiary in 2009 to the second tertiary in 2010. But it's not good enough either. Neither are we satisfied there, even though more people are being treated and waiting times have gone down. In the case of private, we use private, but there has been a significant build-up of capacity in the public sector. A total of 92,000 more patients are treated in public hospitals, and 13 000 fewer are treated in private hospitals. In total, 78 000 more people are being treated in Norwegian hospitals throughout the country. Overall, there is an increase, but there is something to understand that it is the public hospitals that have the large volumes and that are crucial in relation to the large supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e516	Let's move on to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e519	On 17 February this year, the Prime Minister had his own statement in the United Kingdom on cooperation for work – it probably remembers the Prime Minister. In this connection, they had been visiting Opera Software. I then asked the Prime Minister about what he had learned from his visit, and he said: Yes, we learned a lot at that meeting, and several also mentioned some welfare arrangements, among others. ‘sickness benefits and the type of schemes — and that they should be more adapted to self-employed persons. Well, we've made some improvements, we're looking at whether we're going to make further improvements." And then we're at the nucleus. This government is evaluating and looking at things, but there are no real actions. In the draft budget submitted by the government for 2011, there is not a single proposal aimed at improving the daily lives of small businesses and all individual enterprises. But there are many examples of making things worse, such as: e-VAT, which will lead to a form field for enterprises that become huge. The government's proposal to amend the deposit pension law is another example. Instead of giving seafarers better conditions, the Prime Minister and the Government choose to overrun the Banking Act Commission, which recommends equal treatment between maritime operators and ordinary workers. So there's no willingness to do anything to improve the everyday life of many businesses around the country, better the everyday life of all those who actually create jobs. The government has given 100 million. kr that you should be able to work with in the interview, but not one penny goes to small businesses and entrepreneurs; there are small greetings at home here and there. Now I wonder when to stop the Prime Minister looking at things, and actually make real changes to the framework conditions, so that all the people who make this important effort are valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e533	Firstly, I would like to stress that small businesses and entrepreneurs are at the heart of the creation of value in Norway, and we should all be grateful that we have people who are awake, who are betting and starting new businesses, and who operate small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, because that is the backbone of both value creation and employment in our country. Secondly, I would say that the government is just trying to facilitate them, both in terms of the major framework conditions and the smaller and more targeted framework conditions. Thirdly, I would like to say that the World Bank has now compared the conditions for setting up businesses, and Norway is coming out very well. We are among the countries in the world that are cutting the highest in terms of entrepreneurs and start-up opportunities for new businesses. Even though the World Bank gives us a high score in facilitating new businesses, we're not satisfied. We're busy helping to do it even better. So we have high employment, high value creation and many new jobs in Norway. Some succeed, others fail – that’s exactly what it’s all about taking risks. We believe in a social model where safe people are bold people, where having a good welfare society at the bottom makes more people dare to bet. We have to keep track of the economy, like interest rates and interest rates. That's what this government is doing. It is crucial for both small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises and makes us get many new ones. And then we have our instrument, Innovation Norway, where we have developed and strengthened, among other things. establishing arrangements. There are innovation mechanisms, for start-up, just like the important instrument it is to facilitate the creation of many new and small enterprises in Norway. I'm not saying that we can't do even more, but we're doing well compared to other countries, and we've improved the arrangements in the years we've been sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e548	The left has now had a campaign where we have visited between 700 and 1000 companies in the last few months – small and large businesses – and asked what the challenges are for them in everyday life. They probably don't feel much of what the Prime Minister here describes. They almost describe an ideological struggle against those who are involved in creating jobs, where one feels suspicious, and one feels that the system is against them. And the really big thing that all businesses mention is the form field. State Council Trond Giske has now spent one year, from the previous NHO conference, where he said he would set himself a goal of simplification. He will not even set the goal of how much he will manage to simplify, while our sister parties in both Sweden and Denmark have now been able to release billions of money for value creation by reducing the paper movement. Now they've reached 12 pst. in Sweden, and they have reached 25 pst. in Denmark, while in Norway all the bombs are still. Why can't the Prime Minister travel a little more to the companies, listen to them and do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e557	We also do a lot to reduce paperwork for small businesses. Among other things, we do. undertaken by putting more emphasis on electronic document processing in the public sector. It's important what we've done in the entire equation state, which has now become considerably easier to deal with, by getting more use of electronic solutions. We do it in the Brønnøsund registers and Altinn – a separate portal. So big and small steps are being taken to increase the use of new technologies, just to simplify and reduce the paper and form tasks facing Norwegian companies. But it is an eternal struggle because we still have new desires, new interests, which often call for new forms, new tasks. We are able to do our job and have achieved important results, not least in the field of electronic data processing, but we want to move on that way in order to reduce the paperwork for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e562	There will be follow-up questions – first from the representative Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e565	The left wants more jobs and more in work. I hope the Prime Minister does too. That is why, in our alternative state budget, we have given priority to a strong commitment to a better framework for Norwegian business in general, and small businesses in particular. Therefore, we propose a better health insurance scheme and pension schemes for self-employed workers. We propose to set up a Norwegian regulatory board, which would lead to simplification and make it easier for small businesses. I do not expect the Prime Minister to instruct the government parties here in the United Kingdom to vote in favour of the Left's proposal in the budget. But what we have learned is that a few years after the Left has proposed something here in the Storting, the government comes after and proposes the same thing. Can we expect the same for small businesses? That would be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e572	It is quite right that the government is for more jobs, and therefore we have also been very busy keeping order in the Norwegian economy, keeping track of interest rates and the framework conditions for Norwegian companies. So we have succeeded in having the lowest unemployment rate in Europe through the financial crisis, and we have now succeeded in having a good growth in employment, both in private and public employment. And the growth we have seen in private employment has very often occurred in small and medium-sized enterprises. So there have also been more jobs since 2005. I promise to look closely at the Left's proposal. It's often the case that good ideas are found in many different parts. We're going to look at them carefully, and if they're the good ones, we're going to come back with them, and then we're going to present them as our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e579	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e582	Whether the Prime Minister is presenting it on behalf of the government or the opposition is presenting it is completely uninteresting to me. The important thing is that something is done! The Prime Minister said in his second reply to the representative from the Left that the paperwork had already been reduced. Yes, it is a bit strange that the Ministry of Finance in a letter to the Financial Committee in connection with the next year’s budget for the use of the enterprises’ resources related to this, writes that it has not actually been reduced in the period 2006-2010, but that it has increased by 0.09 pst. So that the Prime Minister can stand here and claim that the use of resources has fallen, it will be exciting to get a further explanation. Only in the last year have more than 30 proposals been made for this in this room. The Progress Party alone has presented 25 proposals relating to simplification and form fields. The parties have voted against all the proposals. My question to the Prime Minister is this: can we expect the government to come up with a concrete target for a reduction in the form field?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e594	The basic objective is to succeed in starting new jobs in private enterprises. That is the basic objective — everything else is an instrument for achieving that objective. When it comes to starting new businesses, establishing new private jobs, we are doing relatively well in Norway. We are better off than most other countries in Europe, and we have had strong growth in private employment since we took over in 2005. We had some setbacks during the financial crisis, but still there is a strong growth from 2005 to now in private enterprises. Very much of this has come to newly established, private small businesses. So I say that we are constantly looking for new measures and instruments to reduce what we call unnecessary forms, unnecessary bureaucracy. Not least, we're going to simplify using more digital solutions. This has been done by this and the previous government, and it has been important to simplify everyday life to small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e601	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e604	I would recommend the Prime Minister to read a little further into the World Bank report. There is a comparison in the last five years between 183 countries of the ease of industrial activity. There's Norway almost at the bottom. We are still far ahead of Zimbabwe. It is underlined by the government’s own figures on budgetary developments from 2006 to 2010 that there has been no reduction in the form field. When the Prime Minister stands here and says that there is a lot of work to do, at least the results are not measurable. Then the question becomes simple to the Prime Minister: Is the Prime Minister's announcement to the opposition and to the Norwegian business community that he is very satisfied with the state as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e611	The answer to that question is no. Had I been ‘very satisfied with the state as it is’, I would not have had to be Prime Minister. Then I would have been able to retire and take it easy. It's precisely because I'm not «well satisfied» with the situation as it is in a wide range of areas, that I run a government that is impatient and that has a lot to do. What I'm saying is that the World Bank shows – there's also a similar picture in other international surveys and formations – that we're among the countries in the world where it's best to run private businesses. We're in the eighth place in the World Bank's corps. Other crews give us a little higher, a little better, a little worse cut – but we're at least in the top level. But then I say that even we're not satisfied with it. And then I say that the most important goal is if we succeed in establishing new private jobs, and we have done so in a big way. In fact, during this government, with financial crisis outside the world, unemployment is lower than it was under the previous government, without financial crisis outside the world. So we have increased the number of private jobs since 2005 – a lot in small businesses – but we must continue to work to improve the conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e618	Rigmor Andersen Eide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e621	The Minister of Economic Affairs writes in a letter to the Business Committee that he will have a simplification of rules that will bring tangible and measurable changes to the everyday life of businesses. Sweden and Denmark have achieved results. The EU has said that they will reduce the form field by 25 pst. by 2012. In 2009, the form field in Norway was reduced by 4.8 per million. Does the Prime Minister agree that we need simplification as soon as possible? If the answer is yes, what is the government's plan for this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e628	The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry have said that one of the things we are now looking at — which is a very significant measure, and which will in some way have a much greater impact than all the other measures we have taken so far — is to look at the audit obligation for small businesses. There are different opinions. Some people are concerned, even in business, that it can help make it easier for the unprofessional — more difficult to combat financial crime — but that is why we are now carefully considering arguments for and against removing the obligation to audit. If we do that, it will be a significant simplification, but we will be sure that it is done in a way that does not promote economic crime, or promote unprofessional businesses to outrun the more serious ones. So we're going to keep working on this. I think that all politicians really have to go a little by themselves, because all politicians from all parties are against unnecessary forms and bureaucracy. At the same time, we often have very clear opinions about the environment, about safety, about health and about different rights that make us bring new demands for forms and orders to businesses. So we have to go a little bit in ourselves and look at what we're really asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e635	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e647	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, this question is moved and answered in response to question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 2, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Arve Kambe to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. In addition, question 7 from Peter N. Myhre to the Minister of Health and Welfare was answered in response to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e662	Question 1 will then be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e676	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e683	This question, from the representative Arve Kambe to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e686	It is the Minister of Health and Welfare who is to answer the question, so if the Minister answers well, I will not ask follow-up questions. My question is: ‘In the context of the introduction of a new CO2 tax for natural gas from 1 September 2010, Stortinget has had a desire to avoid double taxation for wholesalers. There is also reason to believe that the proceeds are too low when you see which enterprises the Ministry has interpreted to be in charge. In the context of the financial adjustment, will the Council of State contribute to the creation of a tax exemption for electricity generation and exemption from the use of natural gas directly linked to production processes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e703	The CO2 tax on gas was first proposed in the 2007 budget. The case has subsequently been assessed and not accepted by the EFTA Surveillance Authority — ESA — for several rounds. In the last round, the Ministry of Finance placed a decisive emphasis on proposing only a tax exemption which would, with a high degree of certainty, be proportionate to the State aid rules of the EEA Agreement. However, the Ministry sees that there may be a basis for additional tax exemptions and will assess this. However, the CO2 tax is an environmental tax which should initially be applied to all emissions of CO2. Furthermore, exemptions should not be granted solely on the basis that the EEA Agreement so provides. Moreover, tax exemptions have administrative and control implications, which argues that the number of exemptions is limited. On the other hand, the industry is subject to a quota obligation and is therefore subject to a double set of instruments. This can speak for exemption. The Government will make proposals to the Storting regarding additional tax exemptions if it considers that there is a basis for doing so. It is necessary to clarify with ESA whether new exemptions are in line with the EEA Agreement, whether they need to be notified, etc. New exemptions should not be adopted until such time as they are clarified. Several questions have been raised about the proceeds of the CO2 tax on gas both in the context of the revised 2010 national budget and the treatment of the 2011 State budget. In the context of the revised 2010 national budget, the government announced that it has been estimated on an annual basis that the levy will increase the revenue of the country by about 55 million. kr in progress and 50 mill. I have been booked. The Ministry has stated that the proceeds of the revised national budget 2010 are based on emissions from the Statistical Central Agency for 2008, including: correspond to a proceeds from Kårstø of about 1 million. kr on an annual basis. It was also stated that the gas power plant at Kårstø at full operating time will increase the proceeds by approximately 30 million. kr. However, uncertainty will affect many sources, such as: gas power plant in Mongstad and the use of gas in ships and boats. In response to questions raised by the Financial Committee in the context of the 2011 budget, the Ministry has stated that the 2010 proceeds will be reviewed in the context of the re-balancing of the State budget 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e730	It is true that the Ministry of Finance has had some work, with questions from the High Council, in connection with the proceeds, which is conservatively estimated as the tax model is made by the government. I also think it is in place perhaps to give a signal of praise to the government in connection with the announcement of a review of this. For it is quite clear, as the Finance Committee writes in its attitude to the Storting, that there should be no double use of instruments for wholesalers. And the gas power plant at Kårstø or Mongstad are examples of that, with a huge difference in the use of free quotas from the government. What I could imagine the Council of State taking further into the government is that you are now working actively and coming back to Stortinget with a message with a hint that you are aiming for, for example. to exempt gas power stations from power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e739	I will promise the representative, Mr Kambe, that I will take that request with me to the Minister of Finance. Then I feel that the finance minister says he will come back where he thinks it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e744	I see that too. From the Right, we have also stressed the urgency that the government has apparently had in order to receive income and levy – and then implemented the levy as of 1 September. It has, among other things, has been subject to a high level of uncertainty in relation to the wholesale selling of natural gas. The Council of State and I are from the West, who have had an active use of infrastructure. We have thought that the domestic use of natural gas is good for the environment, because it replaces oil firing. This is good for business, and it is good for Norwegian energy policy. So the wholesaler has experienced that you can't sell free-of-charge gas to the final customer, whether it's shipping, ferry traffic, farmers or whatever, because the directorate has done something there. There we have also had some questions to the Council of State, which the government has not yet followed up. But I hope that the Council of State will also take this with it as a response to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e751	I agree with the view that it is important that we are active in the use of natural gas, and in particular that we in our counties in the West are busy using this in our buses, boats and cars. When it comes to charging issues, I have to bring these back to the Minister of Finance and bring them to him. I am absolutely sure that he will follow this forward in the best way possible, and answer the questions that the Right would have to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e758	Let's move on in today's Question Time. Since the next questions have been asked to the Council of State Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and she is not present in the Chamber, the President hopes it is okay that we go to question 7, which is from the representative Peter N. Myhre to the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen. And then we get back to the other questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e765	‘The names of hospitals in Oslo have been changed several times in the last 10 years. Nevertheless, most people relate to the ‘original’ names, such as Ullevål hospitals, Aker hospitals, Radium hospitals and the Rikshospitale. In the media we hear and read daily about patients who are sent to hospitals, and it is the well-known old names that are used all the time. Will the Council instruct Health East to reintroduce the original names of the hospitals in Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e772	A number of health establishments, consisting of several hospitals, have chosen to use the health company’s name in combination with the hospital name in their dialogue with the outside world. A national profiling programme for naming and logoing shall be addressed at future business meetings with regional health establishments. The conversion in the capital has made it necessary to clarify the naming of the Oslo University Hospital HF. This healthcare company includes traditional hospitals such as Ullevål Hospital, Rikshospitalet, Radium Hospital and Aker Hospital. As the representative writes, these hospital names are well known among the people of the capital. Nationally and internationally, too, this is a well-known brand name. Indication of the hospital names also has an information value as a venue for patients, relatives, partners and others. At the corporate meeting in Health South-East RHF on 11 November, I demanded that Oslo University Hospital HF should take care of the original hospital names, and use the hospital names in its dialogue with the outside world. This implies that Ullevål Hospital, the Rikshospitalet, Radium Hospital and Aker Hospital will continue to be maintained as a hospital name.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e783	I thank you for the answer, which was very positive. I have just one supplementary question, and it's about these heavy-wine and pompous names like Oslo University Hospital HF, Department Ullevål etc. will be taken out in full, so that from now on only the original, well-known and commonly used names of Ullevål hospitals, Aker hospitals, Radium hospitals, etc. will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e790	As I said, it's going to be a national profiling program for this, and it's enough that you also have to reflect that it's been a reorganization, and that the total health company's name is Oslo University Hospital. What matters to me is that these hospital names are used to identify the different parts of Oslo University Hospitals, so that they can be preserved as the institutional carriers they are, also in their name.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e795	Question 7 has been answered, and we go back to question 4, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e802	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, there were 467 last winter reported collisions between elk and car. This resulted in injuries, animal tragedy and material damage. In total, this community cost an estimated approx. 100 million dollars. What will the Council of State do to reduce the number of moose driving?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e811	Last winter about 6,400 deer were killed on the road, of which about 1,400 were elk. Every third instance of elk was in Hedmark. Inflictions lead to both suffering and death for the animals and material damage to motor vehicles. Every year 1 to 2 people die after game is lost, while under 100 people are seriously or more likely to be injured. The socio-economic cost of wild birds has been estimated to be about the same. 600 million. kr annually. In addition, there is a sense of insecurity experienced by road users running on known cross-country routes. Thus, the state road system is systematically reducing the impact of deer game. A large part of the road network travels through areas with lots of wild animals, and it is not possible to avoid all of these. In order to reduce the number of occurrences, special measures have been taken on the most postponed sections. in addition to the usual signs of risk to game. Measures that have been implemented include: the cleaning of vegetation by road, the expansion of winter hunting and the testing of camera surveillance for better warning of game hazards near the road surface. The eastern region carries out vegetation remediation along the national and county roads. The scope of these measures will be assessed on an ongoing basis. When building new four-field paths, game hunters will be added to the game's top and bottom. Feeding should generally be avoided because it prevents natural regulation of the stock and can change the elk’s natural land use. I am aware that in 2009, the Directorate for Nature Management presented a new strategy for the management of deer game, one of the issues being raised being wild. Work is in progress to prepare for the establishment of a national Willows Council to coordinate and streamline efforts against Willows. The state Road Service has also started a systematic review of all registered game attacks in order to propose site-specific measures. 10 pst. these shall be improved by 2014 according to the National Road Safety Action Plan 2010–2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e824	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as a summary of the status quo – of what things are like today. There is no doubt that especially Hedmark, as I take up here, is the country that has the most accidents – deciduous most accidents. And when the Council of State says that it's systematically working to reduce the number of injuries, at least it hasn't helped much, because the number of injuries has actually increased by 20 pst. in the last two years, from 2007 to 2009. So it hasn't helped much, and then it has to be done in other ways. It's very important that you look at this, because this has great consequences. There are many, many accidents – personal accidents, material damage and, in particular, animal suffering. So I feel that it does too little, and that's why I asked the Council of State. I do not feel that I have received any specific answer to what to do, because, as I said, the number of accidents has increased by 20 pst. in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e833	The state road system works systematically. That's actually the case. That's why special measures have been taken here in addition to the usual signposting of game hazards. Here's clean vegetation, here's expanded hunting in the winter, here's the testing of camera surveillance for better warning of game hazards near the roadway. So the extent here at any given time will be assessed continuously, but let me also mention, as already said, that in new four-field paths, there are also game fences set up where it's relevant. Then I take with me what the representative here says – the efforts here can clearly be intensified in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e840	In the last winter, there were four accidents every day in Hedmark. It says a little bit about the magnitude -- four accidents every day. And my suggestion to reduce this is something as simple as better road maintenance. Then I think about both summer and winter – better road maintenance. In winter it is important to remove the snow when the snow has come, to salt correctly, and to set up signs – that is, better signage. There are information campaigns, both for those who already hold a driving licence and for those who are being trained to obtain a driving licence. Better training is important. In addition, you can also ask questions about whether you might have had a completely different charging policy, so that people would have had a better economy to buy newer and, of course, safer cars, so that you would have reduced injuries. Like I said, there's a lot to put your finger on here. I also believe that feeding stations – which the Council of State did not agree with – would have a great effect on getting the game off the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e849	We've spent quite a lot of time this winter also on iron tracks, so that's what they say. To this end, additional funds have been provided in the 2011 budget, with a background in a working group that reviewed the situation on the Nordic runway. I take with me the proposals that the representative here has mentioned. I disagree that it is not done very well, but I agree that there may be even more so-called state-adapted measures here. That's why the State Road Service is working on just that. Then I can report, fortunately, that there are significant means in the budget for better maintenance. There is also a need for many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e860	The question is: ‘In the transport sector, the planning time for road and rail projects is still long and increasing in length. At the same time, projects are also exposed because of a lack of planning capacity. The overall effect is that longer time is used to complete construction start projects. The social consequences are great. The community is losing on delays and delays. What will the Council of State do in the short and long term to reduce planning time and increase planning capacity in the road and rail sectors?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e869	I agree that the time spent planning road and rail projects may seem to be too large. I have been informed by the Swedish Road Administration that the minimum planning time for the main road projects is about 4.5 years to meet the process requirements of the Planning and Building Act and the external quality assurance system, KS1 and KS2. The normal planning time for large projects is about nine years when one also calculates the time it takes to develop the basis of competition, implement the bidding process and ensure the right to take up the ground. The same applies to large railway projects. For smaller projects, the planning time is much shorter both because there are not so many processes required and because the projects are often less complicated. It is very important for me that the planning processes themselves do not constitute a barrier to implementing actions that are prioritised in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, within the high level of activity set by the plan. In the 2011 state budget, the proceeds for the planning of highways have increased to 430 million. kr from a level of approximately 260 million. precisely to ensure the implementation of the national transport plan. The concession for the planning of the 2011 railway project amounts to 708 million. kr. In addition, it's set at 366 million. kr for the planning of double-track Oslo-Ski, including 180 mill. kr for conversion of Ski Station. It will be a major challenge for the agencies to ensure the necessary capacity and competence both through their own recruitment and consulting consultants. The State Road Service and the Railway Agency work continuously in many areas to ensure the necessary capacity and competence and to streamline the planning process. The railway works actively to increase planning capacity within all relevant disciplines, including: is a range of tools used to increase signal competence. However, I want to have a dialogue with the ETAs about what can be done beyond what has already been done to make planning more effective. I expect that there may be efficiency gains both in the budget’s internal work and in the planning framework. However, I would like to stress that efficiency cannot only be measured in time use, but that costs and plan quality must be important elements of such assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e878	Thanks for the answer. Let me quote from Statens vägvesen's website: ‘Once a new road has been decided to be built or an old road upgraded, the road is still well ahead of completion.’ That's what the state councils seem to have. The average takes nine years before construction starts. There are unfortunately many examples of it taking more time than this. Evolution is going in the wrong direction. However, I am pleased to hear that the Council of State has and will have a focus on this. One of several measures that should be considered is the use of total contractor prices, which means that much more of the job of detail planning and retail solutions is left to the contractor. It is not used only abroad. It is used when building e.g. new construction, but it is almost absent when the state builds road and rail. Will the Council of States change this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e894	The answer is yes. Let me then hurry to say that today there are also projects that are being announced that way, and I want to try out more precisely to ensure that the planning processes go faster. The representative of Sortevik has probably registered that it is already a concrete project – also the 2011 project that goes after that model. It is precisely, as he says, both to ensure a competence that can be out of business, and to make rapid progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e901	I thank you again for the answer. From the construction industry itself, national and international, the use of total enterprise prices is just one of the measures that can be pointed at a short time, not only with planning but also with the completion of projects. So it's positive if you want to go more into the use of total enterprise prices. But it is also true that some of the long planning time is actually managed by the central authorities and not least by the ministry and the state council itself. I have asked before and asked again: will the Council use state regulation on important national projects to save both time and money? When the Council of State refers to increased appropriations for planning, will there also be a greater use of the available capacity of external planners outside public agencies to speed up planning processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e910	Now, it's not always the way to save time and money on moving in external forces. It may well be that the representative Sortevik and I disagree about that. But let me mention that it was most necessary to allow more money for planning in the 2010 budget and to add more money to the 2011 budget. Then, among the largest individual projects included in NTP 2010–2013, construction of double tracks Oslo–Ski. In order to save time and simplify the planning process for such a large and comprehensive project, the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Ministry of the Environment, has decided that the Ministry of Transport should be responsible for defining planning programmes and by doing so, clarifying the type of traséar to be worked out. So this is an example of how we use this tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e921	I have the following questions: ‘Despite the advice of a public body set up by Minister for Transport Navarsete, with the Head of the Ringstad of the Centre Party, the government opposes the establishment of independent and independent roadside supervision. The State budget is in favour of roadside supervision within the organisation of the State Road Administration, with the need for 5-10 new annual works. Does the Council of State believe that this staffing and organisation will carry out the oversight tasks as well as the model recommended in NOU 2009:3 On the safe path?»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e930	As mentioned in the representative Halleraker’s question, this matter is referred to in the submitted state budget for 2011. The majority have the full opportunity to discuss this matter more closely through their work on the budget. I think they'll do the same. I have presented my views on the budget proposal. Of course, this is the case today. Let me also show that, together with other representatives, Mr Halleraker has tabled a draft representative, Document 8:22 for 2010-2011, which deals with many of the same issues. After I have been informed, Stortinget proposes that this proposal be considered together with the 2011 budget. I am busy getting the most of the resources we use in the transport sector. In my view, road sector surveillance should be effective and, where appropriate, built over time. The proposition states that five to ten annual works will be needed at start-up. That a supervision unit over some time could become something larger than this is likely. But I don't think it's true that a resource use as outlined by the multiples in the selection is the efficient use of resources. A self-monitoring exercise was carried out by the majority in NOU 2009:3. In a safe way, it is estimated to cost between 50 and 100 million. kr annually. In the report, there was an assessment of the benefits these money could have done for road safety if they had been spent on measures that we know seem to reduce the number of deaths and damage in road traffic. I am busy getting the best possible traffic security for the money. I believe that a solution proposed in the 2011 state budget will be the best. Let me also stress that the government in the proposition assumes that road sector supervision should be a risk-based system supervision. The fact that it is risk-based means that supervision should address the issues that pose the highest risk of accidents. With system monitoring, one believes that supervision should ensure that the actors have established and follow the systems established to create a safe path.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e943	It is true that the Right has opted for independent road and road traffic control. It also has all the organisations dealing with traffic and traffic safety issues. These organisations are thus completely ignored by the government. It is the case that five to ten years' work is approximately equivalent. Between five and ten million. kr in compensation of employees, whether or not to use the same scale. Thus, in the investigation provided and justified by the Ministry, 50-100 annual works are necessary to establish independent supervision. Here's something that's not related. Could it be that the Council of State considers that these additional costs are absorbed by the organisation of the State Road Service without affecting the inadequacy and the absolutely necessary release upon which the credibility of such supervision depends?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e950	I am a little uncertain about what I heard, whether I heard ‘overrun’ or ‘overrun’, but let me distance myself from ignoring or overruning the organisations in this field. On the contrary, I notify you that this is going to create a proper supervision. Such supervision shall be risk-based. This means that it should be inserted into special areas, as appropriate to the importance of supervision. Then it's organized as a device that's directly under the direction of the road. Sometimes it may seem that the State Road Service today has nothing to do with how a road should look and function. It's not like that, and it won't be like that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e957	I register that I am not getting an answer to the question. Let me then have a slightly different angle to the question. In the evening post today, we can read about close links between the research institutions, TØI in particular, and the contracting entities – the owners – and that reports appear to be purely on-demand and bear the mark of being consul summits with ordered conclusions, or at best an ‘open end’, so that the ministry can enter the conclusion. Now it is that in the selection that investigated roadside supervision, there was a minority who got their way in the ministry. The minority may not have been surprised by one representative from the State Road Administration, one representative from TØI and one representative from the other departments. Does the Council of State see the need to put searchlights in the Ministry's way of managing so-called independent research institutions and their staff, when such is revealed, as in this case with the Road Safety Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e968	The TØI report is in respect of another question, but since it was mentioned, let me just say that the first thing I did when I came to work today, of course, was to check what happened here, because as it was produced in the evening post, it should not work. I must be allowed to return with an answer to this, simply because I have not received the necessary basic material. When it comes to close links between the road director and this supervision, let me first say that there's a minority and a multiple. For me, the main question is, if I had 50-100 million. kr: What do I want to apply them to? I would rather use them on road safety measures than on own supervision. So here we get both – both supervision and better traffic safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e975	Question 7 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e982	«In Asker and Bærums Budstikke, there is great concern for the future of Bærum Hospital. Representative Are Health has asked the Minister of Health about the insecurity associated with the future of the hospital. Friends of Bærum Hospital are not reassured by the response of the Council of State. Is the Council of State saying that Bærum hospital should continue as an emergency hospital and that Bærum and Buskerud hospitals’ – it is now called Drammen Hospital – ‘should continue as equivalent hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e989	I will repeat what I replied to the representative Are Health in a letter of 19 October this year: ‘Health South-East RHF has been entrusted with ensuring that the population of the health region is provided with good and equivalent specialist health services within the economic framework available to Health South-East RHF. There is a continuous discussion about task distribution in all health regions. As a follow-up to the Storting decision to merge Health South and Health East in 2007, Health South-East has implemented a comprehensive migration programme. Among other things, the aim has been to ensure equal quality and resource allocation between health businesses and more decentralised specialist health services. In the conversion programme, Health South-East assumes that a differentiation is to be made in local services and in more specialised services within each hospital area/health establishment. The aim is to decentralise what can be decentralised and centralized what needs to be centralised. Health South-East RHF has asked all health establishments in the region to establish a strategy for further division of functions and tasks within each morbidity area to ensure compliance with the principles of the migration programme. From this point of view, land plans shall also be available for the best possible use of existing building stock of satisfactory quality. In connection with the reorganisation at Oslo University Hospital HF, it has already been decided to transfer patient groups from Oslo University Hospital HF to Vestre Viken HF, Hospital Asker and Bærum. In the case of a new hospital at Gullaug, a replacement hospital is planned for the hospitals in Drammen and Lier. Health South-East RHF has informed us that this is the reason for the negotiations on the purchase of land on Gullaug. With today’s plans, I can therefore ensure that the Hospital Asker and Bærum will continue to be the local hospital for the population belonging to the hospital’s reception area today.” So I have already stressed that with today's plans, I can ensure that the Hospital Asker and Bærum, or Bærum Hospital, as it is called today – this name change happened recently – will continue to be a local hospital for the population of Asker and Bærum. At the same time, there are processes in place that may affect the organisation of the specialist health service in Vestre Viken HF. The question of functional distribution between hospital units is an element of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1014	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I noticed that she did not answer the specific question about an emergency hospital, but there are several possibilities for answers here. The council mentioned the purchase of land at Gullaug, and I would like to continue a little bit on it: there are rumors that a new hospital at Gullaug will cost twice the Opera, to say it a little roughly. What does the Council of State think about that? And what does the Council of State think it would have to say to the other hospitals, for example. Berum hospitals, which was the theme here, regarding future maintenance of construction and operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1021	First, I would like to answer this with an emergency hospital. It is clearly difficult to imagine that Bærum hospital would be a hospital without emergency facilities. At the same time, I would like to stress that Bærum Hospital will not be a new Ullevål Hospital. There are different levels on this. There are different functions in the different hospitals. This has to be tried to balance, because medical progress is generally rapid in the future as a result of, among other things. technology, and then it's that needs change. But I find it difficult to see that it should have consequences for Bærum Hospital, which is an important hospital for a large population, in the densely populated municipalities of Bærum and Asker. In the case of the new hospital at Gullaug, there is a hospital that replaces the hospital in Drammen, and there is another hospital other than the Bærum hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1030	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. As it emerged from my first question, the population of Asker and Bærum are seriously concerned that Health South-East in the design of the West Week will shut down activities at Bærum Hospital for the benefit of Drammen Hospital. This kind of concern also spreads among employees and leads to a lack of competence, as we already see. Will the Council of State as senior executive instruct Health South-East that the activities of Bærum hospitals be continued at at least as high a professional and activity level as those of Drammen Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1039	When it comes to the people of Asker and Bærum being seriously concerned, I find it worrying to hear, because there is no reason for people to be seriously concerned. They have a hospital that, until the very sad matter of waiting lists, in which the hospital has cleaned up, has had a good reputation, it has been a good job, it has recruited well. It's been a good hospital in every way. It must also be in the future. Therefore, I must say that I would hope – and really ask all politicians too – to try to calm the population, because operating with functional distribution between hospitals might as well lead to e.g. Bærum hospital would be provided with functions, just as there are some adjustments between reception areas that also lead to the introduction of patient basis. So again, I just want to say that Bærum Hospital is an important hospital for Asker and Bærum. It's going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1048	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘7. On September 2009, the Council of State received a report from a wide-ranging working group on the reduction of the level of conflict between predators and redundancies in North Trøndelag. A rapid response to the conclusions of the working group was promised. Still, 14 months later, no feedback has been received on the follow-up to the report, either from the Council of State or from the Central Authorities. The status today is that there is still a very demanding predatory situation for the reindeer in the Nord-Trøndelag. When can the Council of State respond to the follow-up to this report?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1057	Let me first say that I'm glad that this question comes up. This working group was set up just because, in meeting representatives of the reindeer industry in the Nord-Trøndelag, I saw that it was a problem, and it was a great local involvement in the matter both from the Sami interests and from others. I also agree with what is implicit in the question, that it has taken an unbearably long time to reach conclusions here. I am the first to admit that it should have happened faster, and I am sorry that we have not managed to keep a higher pace. When this has not happened, it is also because we want to have extensive consultations with Sami interests and others on this before we draw conclusions. We have dialogue with both Sametinget and Norske Rein driftssamers Landsförbund. That said, it is also true that although we have not reached the final conclusions, many of the measures proposed in the report have been implemented. The report points out that the stock target for bear in the number of juveniles is difficult to measure. Environmental protection authorities meet this challenge. In April 2010, we were given a new model for calculating the number of annual juveniles of bears in Norway. The calculations showed that there were most likely six young bears in Norway in 2009, and in comparison, only one juvenile was documented on the basis of observations in the same year. Furthermore, from 2009 onwards, annual cross-country DNA registrations of bear have been implemented. So, as the questioner is probably aware, this is a system for the purpose of getting a more precise estimate. The size has a measure of how many young people we're going to have. It's not easy to count them with certainty, and this statistical estimate I think is a better way of calculating, which will provide more secure knowledge, but which obviously has to be further processed in the future. In the case of gaupe, the report points out among others: there is a high distance between stock and stock target for globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular. The aim is that the stocks should be as close to the stock target as possible and that they will be continuously involved in environmental management. For globular purposes, the quota hunt is effective, and shows that the globular population is now on its way down, after high-recorded withdrawals. For you, the environmental management continuously assesses the need to deploy exceptional off-takes in addition to licensing management. It is clear that the problems that some people experience in the Nord-Trøndelag are due to the fact that the management of yerves and yerves has been successful in the sense that we have achieved the goals, and can therefore also have ordinary hunting. In the winter of 2010, intensive surveillance was carried out in snowy coastal areas in western parts of the North Trøndelag, including the Fosen peninsula. Among other things, used helicopter on a relatively large scale for the registration of gaupe and yerv, and the reindeer operation was actively involved in the work. The result of the extraordinary effort showed activity in a total of eight singlegaups. No yerv was registered on the South Fos, while further north found five yervs who were killed in connection with the plane registrations. The air routes were largely determined by the reindeer operation, and the cooperation with the reindeer operation in this area has worked well in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1074	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I also record that he points out that it is positive that we have achieved the goal of gaupe and yerv. The problem is that in retrospect there has been a great distance between stock and stock for globular globular, and it is also at the top when it comes to yours. What this report also points to, and I think it is important to take on board, is that when development goes that way, it helps undermine the legitimacy of predatory game policy. There is also something that this report points to, and I believe that the central authorities must take over. There are still problems in the Nord-Trøndelag, and there is an urgent need to put these measures into practice, so my question is: When can you expect an answer to the whole report?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1083	My answer is twofold. A number of the things recommended in the report are going on, and through the consultations we're going to have with the Sameting and Norwegian reindeer organisations, we're going to come back with an answer. I can't give an exact time for that, but the most important thing is for reindeer and others that actual measures are being implemented. Then I think we all have to admit that the two-part objective of a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, not the Progress Party, has given, namely that we should both have grazing in Norway, i.e. mainly pure and sheep, and that we should have predators, is a very difficult combination that not many other countries are trying. Conflicts will come out of this, conflicts will still be there, but I believe that essentially this works well now. What we're talking about here, that we're shooting out y'all and y'all to come down against the stock targets, is an example of how management works.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1090	Thank you again for your answer. The starting point for this working group was that the Minister of Agriculture called for an alarm and said in 2009 that the very existence of the marine samples was threatened. This working group was set up by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It's pointed out that Southern Sami culture and reindeer belong together; this is woven very much into each other. We see that what is isolated can look like a predatory thing, just as much about taking care of the Southern Sami culture. It is therefore important to take action, because it is urgent to put these measures in place precisely in order to safeguard an important culture and the rights of indigenous peoples. Does the Council of State continue to share this view, which was in a way the starting point for this working group?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1101	Let me first say that I believe it is a very positive development in Norway that the Progress Party, which does not have a long history of always standing on the side of the Sami population on many important issues of Sami rights, now makes it a battle cause to care for Sami interests. It shows that Norwegian policy is moving on, and that we in Stortinget have a unified view that it is important to preserve this culture. Then it is clear that the Southern Sami culture faces many challenges, and one of them is predators. The initiative taken by Lars Peder Breck, and also by Inge Ryan, otherwise a representative of the big business, now consists of the Nord-Trøndelag district, but which also came from meetings that I had directly with Southern Sami representatives, is an initiative to bring together agricultural and environmental management in this area, in close dialogue with the reindeer and professionals to whom this applies the most. It's not a large number, so we need to have a close dialogue with them, like this. this helicopter hunt is an example of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1113	I also have a question for the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘Rovvil courts lead to major interference with the right of gravitation and the private ownership of many landowners. How is it possible for the Council of State to market predatory fences as a solution to the predatory game challenges when it can be documented that the farmers who had sheep on pasture within the so-called predatory fence on Finnskogen have lost almost 100 percent of the breeding animals to predatory game, and do not lead both opinion and people most behind the light with such devices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1122	Let me first correct the misunderstanding that I accused the representative Bekkevold, indirectly at least, of being from the Progress Party. I understand that he is from the Christian People's Party, and thus probably sees it as an insult, and I will therefore strongly regret this error. To the representative of Lødemel, who is probably still from the Right, I would just like to say that predators are a difficult but important measure in the anti-conflict policy that we are trying to pursue in the predatory area, and which I repeat in the Storting must remind you of leaping out of a predatory settlement that also Right itself was on. The Directorate for Nature Management is working on compiling the volume of use around the counties. As a rule, predators are the ones who decide how predators are to be set up. The use of predatory fences is relatively new, and here, as elsewhere in society, there must be room for learning from their mistakes and improving both standards and arrangements, so that it becomes better year after year. One of the main principles of the 2004 Robbery Agreement is the principle of a two-part objective, which I also mentioned in the answer to Bekkevold: Reind drift, sheep-holding and other outdoor industries and predatory game in Norway. In areas prioritised for wild game, the sheep industry and other off-farm-based productions must be adapted on the basis of the presence of wild game in the grazing area. This implies that, in some areas, long-term investment will be required in changed operating arrangements or conversions to other production. It is of course equivalent to the fact that in areas that are priority for sheep farming, there must be a very low threshold to take predators out. There is no guarantee against loss to predatory game within predatory fences. The gears require regular inspection and maintenance for optimum operation. Of course, it is regrettable that the fence it refers to on Finnskogen has not worked optimally. I stress that the feedback from the states on the impact of predatory fences will be very important in the work on this in the future. A lot of positive feedback has been received in the Nord-Trøndelag. There are 14 sheep boars within predatory fences, and these have been shown to have a loss prevention effect on grazing animals within the fences. All predatory fences are planned in cooperation with animal owners themselves and always with the consent of the affected reindeer districts. I believe that predatory fences are a good solution to be able to operate grazing in areas that are priority for predatory game, and where the losses of predatory game are large. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is clear that predators have many aspects, including: the right of all persons, as pointed out here. We believe that some of the reason they haven't worked as well as they should at Finnskogen is that, to say it is very practical, there has been too little electricity, or that there has been too little smooth maintenance and supervision of it. We need to look at how this instrument can be improved all the time. But that predators are one of many instruments that local predators must have the opportunity to use, I think we should be able to agree on in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1145	I thank you for your answer. It's clear to lose 100 pst. of the breeding animals is disastrous for a farmer. I want to show that it is the state that has pointed to the predatory fence as a measure to secure grazing animals against predators, and there are public authorities that have set up fences, according to what the council just said about predatory fences. The councils said, in connection with the sighting of the robbers at Finnskogen in the election campaign last year, that the areas inside should be kept free of predatory game. Why was it denied the killing of a wolf who was inside the fence at the beginning of September?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1152	I am not familiar with the specific matter that is being raised here, and I must remind you that the procedures in such cases are that it is the county that gives permission. The Ministry of the Environment is an appeal body if the decisions taken are displeased. The contacts I have had with a number of sheep owners in Hedmark, which is referred to here, have shown that people have been very pleased with the cooperation they have had with the Countess. They have felt that they have received rapid response, by telephone, in the alleged situations. The same thing I get to say that I also met in Uppland, where I also talked to a number of farmers. I'm not going to say that everyone has the same opinion, but my opinion is that a number of sheep owners both in Uppland and Hedmark have felt that they have received a rapid response from the county manager when they have been in emergency situations, and have been able to clear the killing permits by telephone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1157	I thank you for your answer. We see daily that more and more inhabitants are being subjected to a great deal of pressure both mentally and economically by being in the protection zone for the large predators. Livestock production is greatly reduced, sheep industry is disappearing, and hunting card sales are falling. People don't sleep in the forest's good, and the open air life in the woods is being reduced. People are simply insecure. An important part of the robberies settlement was, as the council calls it, a shared goal, and those in heavily charged areas were to be screened. My question to the Council of State is: Is it possible to have a shared objective when it comes to predatory game, and what will the Council of State do to improve the situation for those who live in areas where there is a strong predatory load?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1166	Yes, of course it is possible to have a shared objective. It is not possible to have a shared objective without conflicts. There are a number of other areas in society where we know that there will be persistent problems with something, but we still do. I'm not going to draw too many examples of that, but it's easy to find many examples from society else where, because you want more things at the same time, you have conflicts between them. I want to remind you that the Right even has been involved in this. I wonder what I saw that the journal of the Federation of Nature Conservation had counted. I think there had been 140 questions against predators in the Storting and no – or maybe one – for predators in the last period. Why do parties that themselves have been involved in this, and even say that you should have predators in Norway, just point to the negative things instead of also pointing to the amazing beauty? However, with conflicts, however, with difficulties and yet with single-hullers being pulled out here, it is a fantastic thing that we are able to basically combine it with taking care of our predators with an extensive outdoor industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1175	‘Many doubts about the CO2 accounting for biofuels. In addition, the Technical Weekly of 11 November this year has mentioned potential adverse health effects from the use of biodiesel, while today’s industry has called for better sustainability criteria. Biofuels in Norway are primarily political initiated. It is then a particularly high political responsibility that the value added is high and the health risk is low. What does the Council of State do to discharge this responsibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1185	Let me start with the health question. Of course, we'll go into the health effects of this that's come up in the media lately. The Ministry of the Environment has just taken initiatives against the Ministry of Health and Welfare to look into the potential health effects of biofuels. That being said, biofuels are an essential part of the response to climate change. Today's biofuels are far from good enough, but it's a step on the way. Very good response to the climate noise we get on the day we have 2nd generation biofuels that come from agricultural waste and from forestry. Creating a system – an infrastructure, charging systems, etc. is very important right now. – which makes us capable of using this biofuel as soon as it comes. With regard to today's biofuels, we in the Ministry of the Environment will now issue a proposal for a regulation at the hearing where from 1 July 2011 there will be a 5 pst integration requirement. We are doing this to prepare a later generation of biofuels and also because the biofuels we have today are better than fossil fuels. But then it's very important that the sustainability criteria for this biofuel become good. We do not think it is possible to set the sustainability criteria for a market as small as Norway alone – this is probably not the case under the EEA Agreement either. So the work here is working on EU sustainability criteria. The EU has set such sustainability criteria. Norway will be part of them. We think they're too weak. It's a step in the right direction, but they're too weak. We will work for stricter sustainability criteria in the European Union. It's kind of technical, but there's two main problems there: one is the level of CO2 savings from biofuels. With today's criteria in the EU, it will be a guaranteed 35 pst. improvement. We believe it is relatively small, given that, of course, petrol or diesel engines with small emissions can also achieve that type of gains. So we believe that that requirement should be raised. So we mean the net emissions when you subtract CO2 like that. come from the production of fertilizers or irrigation plants or other energy entering the production process. Then it should be more than 35 pst. reduction, but it's a step in a positive and correct direction. Then it's another and much harder theme to measure, and that's the displacement effect when you grow biofuels. An extreme case: if you clear a rainforest to grow biofuels, it's a more than a hundred years negative effect on that biofuel. Now there's little evidence that this is the big international problem. With a different displacement effect on agriculture and others, there may also be negative effects related to biofuels, and we want to find systems where this can also be measured, but it is difficult, and the EU has not yet managed to create a good enough system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1209	Thanks for the answer. Report of the Central Statistical Office 44/2010 refers to what the Council of State also says that the turnover charge of 3,5 pst. on biofuels shall be increased to 5 pst. from July 2011. The same report also shows that increasing the use of biofuels is most likely to reinforce climate problems, not reduce them, in a 20-year perspective in the future. Is there any new assessment related to this demand, precisely because one in the future will increase the climate challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1218	There is, of course, a comprehensive international and national literature on this, and I don't think it's possible to say that someone can draw an absolutely safe conclusion from it. But if you look at a country like Brazil, which is one of the world's biggest biofuels producers, they clearly have to drastically reduce deforestation in the Amazon, so that there is no displacement effect through biofuels and a gigantic biofuel production. So it is possible at country level to achieve this in a reasonably successful way. But we believe that sustainability criteria need to be reinforced, so that there is a greater net impact of biofuel deployment, and to look at these displacement effects. Above all, we should use today's situation where we have a biofuels that are ok, but not good enough, to facilitate intensive research and prepare the market for the day we get 2nd generation biofuels, because it's almost impossible to see any really negative aspects of that type of biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1223	New research shows that nanoparticles pose a health problem and that particulate filters can be effective against the odour and removal of just these nanoparticles. But the problem there is that this is a car, and we all know that car product, car rental, is very high charges, and that such a filter costs 150 000 kroner. Will the Council of State go in and look at the benefits of reducing the tax on this type of filter, if any, in order to allow those who use biodiesel, the potential and the economy to benefit from it both in health promotion and otherwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1230	After all, Grimstad is well aware that the charging policy is not under the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and I guess he also expects that the Minister of Environmental Protection is not a specialist in car engines and all technical questions about how it can be resolved there. What I think I can assure you is that to the extent that there are health problems associated with this, of course, we should take them seriously and go in and investigate them thoroughly. Then we get back to the question of the levy on different filters in the further budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1239	It is good to see that there are so many journalists who are concerned about this question: ‘The VG has mentioned poor digestion of climate quota purchases for air travel. The council says he doesn't have much faith in the arrangement. Nevertheless, it is proposed to continue the scheme in the 2011 State Budget. Today's Businesses reported at the same time that the Council of State will introduce forced quota purchases for air travel. Will the Council of State avoid double taxation by removing the CO2 tax on the same flights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1251	With regard to the answer to the last part of the question, there is something we will come back to in the 2012 budget. As the questioner will surely know, we will come back to the question of how to deal with the CO2 tax versus the quota then. Otherwise, I would like to use the answer to clear up a little bit of the misunderstandings that have been a lot of in the public debate later on, where we have systematically mixed together the voluntary quota purchases that are part of the system that the Climate and Pollution Directorate has and that some voluntary organisations have – which is therefore a voluntary scheme to actually pay for their environmental damage by buying a quota if you travel south or travel to Copenhagen, or for businesses to rectify their accounts that way. It's a voluntary arrangement. The second is the EU's quota system, where air traffic is now fortunately entering the EU's quota system. Norway has been a driving force for this to happen, and this means that air traffic will be treated like many other industries: as a system that thus encourages technological and other improvements through a quota obligation. The airline that manages the fastest to introduce green landings, introduce biofuels on its tanks, get more efficient management of its logistics, buy new aircraft – all the many improvements that can be made in the aviation industry, which can drastically reduce emissions – could make money to sell the allowances. Norway has worked to get these allowances to be sold allowances that companies have to buy, but also accepts that the effect of free allowances on land is the same. As long as a cap is set, there will be strong incentives here for companies to improve their systems and thus reduce emissions. But there's no connection between these two things, just as little as there's a relationship between a tax system that's imposed on everyone, and the idea of voluntary tax collection. I guess I've always been a little reluctant to think that we could fund care for the elderly or school or kindergarten, or for that part of the road development, with voluntary tax collection. Similarly, voluntary purchases of climate allowances appear to be more difficult to obtain than to obtain a functioning quota market. We now have the working quota market, and then I want to look again at whether it is a government task to sell voluntary climate allowances, or whether there is something that should be primarily anchored in non-governmental organisations, which are selling this, but also that we are using the revenues for development measures and thus greenhouse gas reduction measures in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1267	I thank you for the answer even though it did not matter what was the essence of the question, namely double taxation, because today a CO2 tax is paid on all domestic air travel through the charging of the fuel. When the prime minister in 2007 was campaigning in More and Romesdal, he rented a helicopter and was then asked by a journalist if he had bought climate allowances to cover CO2 emissions. He said no, he didn't, because he didn't need it since he paid the CO2 tax. When the Prime Minister in our country was due to justify on Friday why one is now introducing forced climate quota purchases on air travel, he referred to that for a few people had bought these climate quotas – but as he had said three years earlier that no one had to buy because one paid the CO2 tax. But the principal problem here, which one should have been answered long before the state budget was presented – I accept that the sum of the figures is not necessarily known – is to double-tax a product when you have a CO2 tax today and then to put in place quota schemes to pay for the same emissions. Does not the Council of State itself see the unfairness of double taxation of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1291	I believe I have already answered that question. I have said that we will come back to that in the 2012 budget. I guess the Progress Party also thinks it is a good idea to explore the effects of the different arrangements and the income potential that lie within them, before you take a stand on the Stortinge Chair over the table. We're going to get back to that. I hear the arguments about double taxation. Of course, there are important arguments in such a debate. Otherwise, I react a little negatively to the fact that the Progress Party continues to connect these two completely different arrangements. I believe that the Progress Party is a keen supporter of the European quota system, that is a good idea and that Norway should be part of it. Then you should probably run the champagne when we now become part of the quota system in this area and get to it in an excellent way. I thought it was in line with what is desired. The voluntary possibility for individuals and businesses to pay for good or to cancel a climate quota is a good addition, but can never replace the European and hopefully later the global quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1298	Now I think the Council of States is making up a master in misunderstanding the point, because the Progress Party is a champion of the quota trading system. We've been a long time before the Council of State did. But what we're against is that you have to have both the quota obligation, with the cost it involves, and a CO2 tax. So the question to the Council of State is, can I interpret his answer this way, when he says that there has to be an out-of-date impact, economic and other, before he says what this is going to be, that one here emphasises that it has to be either a quota duty or a CO2 tax? Or does the Council of State open up so that it can still be both? I accept if the question here is whether fees are a better tool than quotas, that he will have time to make the decision. But if the Council of State says no, we'd like to consider driving both parts in parallel, there's going to be a double tax that other countries don't have, and which is a commercial disadvantage for Norwegian airlines. It is strongly opposed to the Progress Party, even if we are in favour of a quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1314	It is an intense attempt to trick me into saying something that could prejudge the decision we are going to take in relation to the budget in 2012. So let me give you the basics: when you have a quota system, it's essentially not going to be a double taxation. There might be some, very special areas where it's possible and right to have it. We have e.g. had a CO2 tax in the oil business. It is possible to have there because there is a relatively small competitive activity. However, it is clear from the outset that Norwegian industry, which is heavily competitive, should not have a double taxation: quota plus a levy. What needs to be carefully considered here, however, is whether we are at risk of a real reduction in what is paid by the aviation industry through the quota system, if the price remains so low as to pay less than through the current CO2 tax. Because no one has earned us less incentive to switch to green landings, new technology, better aircraft, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1329	‘For the 6th Framework Programme of the European Union, Norway paid approx. Three billion. NOK to participate, but got only 83 pst back. of these means. For the 7th Framework Programme of the European Union, we will pay 9 billion. According to the Research Council, however, we expect a lower recovery rate than in the previous programme. One of the reasons for this is that, for budgetary reasons, the institution sector does not have the capacity to be as progressive as in the previous period. What will the Council of State do to help increase the participation of institutions in the 7th EU Framework Programme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1336	Since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement in 1994, we have participated in the framework programmes for research in the same way as EU Member States. By participating in the framework programmes, Norwegian research communities have access to funds that are much larger than the quota we pay. Through the 7th Framework Programme, Norwegian researchers work together with researchers from approx. 100 countries. The professional benefits of this cooperation are significant. The financial outflow from the 7th Framework Programme was rather low at first, but it has actually increased steadily every year since 2007. Nevertheless, there is a growing gap between the quota and the total amount that Norwegian environments draw from the Framework Programme. This is, as the representative is also aware, a challenge that the government is familiar with, and I share the concern for this. We're dealing with the three-axis problem. Firstly, we consider measures to facilitate increased participation in the Framework Programme in general. This includes both measures to mobilise environments that do not already have experience with the framework programmes and measures to strengthen already participating environments. Secondly, we are working on administrative and economic simplification of the framework programme, because these are very complex systems. These are important measures for the institutions, as the representative also mentions, on which we are in dialogue with the European Commission. Thirdly, we are working to influence the content of both the current and future framework programme, so that it is more effective at meeting Norwegian environments. Among other things, we have launches a public consultation process for the first Norwegian recording of the 8th EU Framework Programme for Research, to be launched as of 2014. Our research institutes, and in particular SINTEF, are Norway's largest player in the 7th framework programme of the EU. In the 6th Framework Programme, the research institutes were only covered by 50 pst. of its research activities in EU projects under the Framework Programme. In order to facilitate the participation of the institutions, a national co-financing scheme was established to provide additional funding for institutions with EU projects of 25 pst. In the 7th Framework Programme, the EU set support at 75 pst. of the costs of the research activities and the co-financing mechanism was not continued. A key instrument to stimulate participation in EU research is the Research Council’s project cancellation support. Such support is provided to Norwegian actors participating in project applications for European research programmes open to Norwegian participation. It is also important that we, together with the Research Council, look at how we can achieve a better integration between national resources and funds for international cooperation. We also assess targeted instruments for the participation of the institutions in the EU, and we are committed to making good use of our actions. The Ministry of Knowledge and I assess the situation continuously and have good dialogue with the Norwegian Research Council and with other departments. I can come back with a follow-up, if I get a chance to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1349	I thank the Council of State for many good arguments for our participation. We fully agree with that. We just want us to get more left for it. The participation of the university and higher education sectors in EU research programmes is well paid for. You just make money to participate. The institution sector, on the other hand, receives, according to its own figures, between zero and eleven ears per. EU krone. When you know that we have to pay 33 cents for each krona you get from the EU, it is directly unprofitable for the institute sector to participate from a purely economic perspective. In the past, I have understood from the media that the Council of State is willing to see if you are willing to increase the bonus you get when you get EU funds, so that it is actually profitable for the institute sector to get projects. We know that we have a basic funding for the institute sector that is much lower than in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1356	I'm very aware of that difference. The bottom line is that there are actually two different actors we're dealing with. The institutional sector has a specific role in the field of mission research, while universities and higher education have a slightly different funding system, a different role. So there's a difference between the two, it's not in itself such a big challenge, but I see the need to keep up, especially in the institute sector, to possibly help solve the problems for them. Some of the problems are about complexity, and this is about simplification. But some of this is about following up that they really get the payoff for their programs. I also want to stress that it is not that we have poor counting compared to other European countries. In fact, we have a census that is above the EU average, because here you have to see the return in relation to the size of the quota and the population in each country. So it's a little bit dependent on who we're comparing to, how we calculate this counting out. But that's a little bit of the rug. The follow-up must be in relation to the institutional sector in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1368	I strongly disagree that we have some reason to say we are satisfied with today's numbers. That was my perception that the Council of State also had in its first answer. I fully understand that there is and should be a difference between the institute sector and universities and colleges. As for the institute sector, I think we'll get back to the next Wednesday on the occasion of recent developments on that front. But it's like universities and colleges get $1.80 in support. No one is suggesting that the institutional sector should be given. But I've seen in the past that the Council of State was only on a track where you can get a bonus of up to 33 cents, which would make it profitable. It's still a long way from what universities and colleges get. I study universities and colleges every penny they get from the Ministry of Knowledge, but I call for a clearer ambition to give a signal to the institute sector that participating in EU research projects will also be economically profitable for this important sector, which actually delivers 40 pst. research in the EU programmes for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1377	I am fully aware of the efforts the institutes are making, and of course I want them to be involved. But I would like to make it clear that much of this is about what is actually being approved in the EU system as productive research hours. There are differences in the calculation of what you get accepted as research, and what you don't get. It is not all of our expenditure that we count as research expenditure, which is counted as the same in the EU system. Therefore, it is important that we have that contact with the EU centrally, through both my participation in meetings there and through other follow-up, in order to get this right and harmonise it. At the same time, of course, we always look at the value of the institutions' participation, and will follow the matter very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1382	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1389	This question, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Research and Higher Education who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1392	Extra inspired by a full press bench with freshly sharpened pencils, I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘In January 2007 a new higher education admission regulation was adopted. The methodology for calculating points was changed by changing the basis for calculating the average character. It may seem that this gives an unintended result, by the fact that, depending on the subject of the examination, the characterisation will be reinforced twice negatively or positively since both the position and the examination will apply. What was the background and purpose of this change?"
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1401	I share the representative's comment on the great attention given to questions about exams and scoring. We're both doing an important piece of information here. It is quite right that the legislation for the calculation of the higher education entry character points was amended by a new regulation, which became applicable from January 2007. These changes mean that all grades, both exam characters and position characters, count equally when averages and character points are calculated. The reason for the change was the problems the applicants experienced with the previous calculation method. It was perceived as unclear, and there were questions about the procedure. For this reason, the Department saw the need for a simpler method to allow applicants to control the point calculations themselves. These changes were implemented after a wide public consultation in the autumn of 2006 — that was when the consultation took place. A large majority of those who chose to comment on the proposal to modify the calculation method supported the proposal. I would also like to add that the method is the same as was used until the entry into study year 2000–2001. The corresponding method is also used for the transition from primary to secondary. It is the higher education admission requirement that regulates the calculation of the score. It has recently been through the annual consultation process. The Ministry has not taken the view that the new method of calculation by the hearing bodies is unsatisfactory. However, we have received some enquiries from individuals who have addressed just the same issues that the representative Harberg here is now raising. However, the question of the method of calculation has not been the subject of the consultation. Therefore, there is no legal basis for assessing the changes for the current year. But I will, also in the light of the representative's questions, consider whether the method of calculation should be discussed in next year's hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1418	The President notes that there is not only a great deal of interest in the press department for the representative’s questions, but also an increasing interest among the representatives of the supplementary question he is now given the opportunity to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1421	Of course, if students did not manage to calculate the average character, you can ask questions about high school education or the information from the department, but I will leave that to them. Contacts have been made between supervisors and students who first went to school, who were referred to the Coordinated Recording, who referred to the Directorate, who referred to the Department, and in a response from the Department says one, despite enquiries: There are no plans to amend the regulations. What is shown from these is that there is a direct injustice in reproducing a picture of what students can do because of random examinations. I hope the Council of State sees this as an injustice, and asks, is there anything that the Council of State can do to get the grip on this immediately, so that we don't have to wait for a new hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1428	It's a little interesting that here there's a Swedish State Council and a representative from the Right and discusses whether counting with what you get on the exam is important or not, and the representative from the Right believes that it's unfair that the exam results should count so strongly. I'll take it as a little cross of thought. I don't think we'll ever come up with a method that feels fair to everyone. What is important for me to clarify is that this has been at an extensive hearing. There have been no particular objections among the hearing bodies to this way of doing so, but I also say very clearly to the representative here that I am of course looking at whether the method of calculation should be discussed in next year's hearing, in the hope that we will find a fairest possible way of calculating it. It's a weighting of the relationship between attitude characters and exam characters it's all about, and it's finding both a simple way and a best and best possible fair way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1435	In my opinion, that's exactly what it doesn't do. A student, for example. has eighteen fours, a three and a five, or would like to have two students who have gone through a three year school and have exactly the same grades in the same subjects when they're done, have an average of four. If one student is unlucky and gets an extract from the subject he has 3 in and gets 3 on the exam, he goes down to 3.95 in average, while the friend – who had the same grades, the same knowledge, after three years – either doesn't get pulled out and keeps 4, or maybe gets pulled out into the subject he had 5 in, gets 5 and ends at 4.05. That's the reality, and it's not to emphasize exams. So if you do an exam with the same character as the position, you can get a lower average when you're done. Does the State Council believe it is right that such randomness should govern the choices of young students in continuing education?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1440	I am happy to discuss further with the Right whether or not the exam score that counts or not counts is random or not. Here I think we might have interesting ideological discussions. But it's absolutely right that here counts the exam, and that's how it's supposed to be. Then you can be lucky and get into something you can, and you can be unlucky and get into something you can't do so well, and that will obviously be reflected in the characters that are put at last. But I repeat that this is a way of calculating the grades that are well applauded and supported by all the hearing bodies we've had. We see that ways to figure out grades can look different for different, as the representative here says, but it might as well turn out to be the positive as to the negative. We follow the case and will see if we can address the calculation system at the next intersection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1445	With that, the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1457	I thank you for this opportunity to come to Stortinget and explain the so-called embassy case. On Wednesday 3 November 2010, the TV 2 newscast claimed that, among other things. former police officers shall have illegally monitored Norwegian citizens. The persons who are or have previously been employed by the US Embassy in Oslo shall be associated with a unit at the embassy called Surveillance Detection Unit, SDU. According to TV2, 15 to 20 persons, many with Norwegian police and defence background, must have worked continuously for almost 10 years on surveillance activities. The collected information shall have been registered in the Security Incident Management Analysis System, SIMAS, a web-based system developed and operated by the US Department of Foreign Affairs. It is imperative to get to the bottom of the allegations of illegalities and to bring as many facts as possible to the table. The government takes a serious view of allegations of illegal surveillance and registration in Norwegian territory. The government also takes the security of the Oslo embassies very seriously. On questions from TV 2’s US correspondent on 1 November, the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs press officer states that the U.S. Foreign Service has a security program for the detection of the U.S. foreign station, which also applies to the U.S. Embassy in Oslo. He further states that the activities related to this programme were both cleared with and were carried out in cooperation with the Norwegian authorities. On this basis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs called for a meeting the day after the U.S. Embassy for a detailed explanation and concrete information on two key issues, namely the basis for the claim that the activities of such a unit were cleared by the Norwegian authorities, and on the nature and scope of the activities. The meeting took place on 3 November and was followed up later with the US authorities, among others. in the meeting of the Minister for Foreign Affairs with the US Ambassador on 9 November. On the basis of TV 2's newscast, I asked the police director and the head of the police security service, PST, on 4 November to explain their possible knowledge of the alleged circumstances. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also carried out investigations to clarify their own knowledge of the matter. On the same day, I asked the President of Stortinget to make a statement to the Stortinget on questions relating to the possible illegal surveillance of Norwegian citizens, after the allegations have been reviewed and further information has been obtained. I would like to inform you that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum has contacted me. He has announced that he, as Minister of Justice, was never asked about the acceptance of matters relating to the security of the U.S. Embassy that could be illegal. He goes on to say that he did not get any other knowledge of such matters, nor of any other circumstances that could provide the basis for further investigation. I have also contacted former Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem. She also informed me that she had no knowledge of illegal relations around the embassy. I have also discussed the matter with the Swedish and Danish Minister of Justice. Questions have also been raised in Sweden and Denmark, and these are or will be raised in the respective parliaments. I also remind you that the State Attorney has decided to investigate the matter and that the investigation responsibility has been added to the Eastfold Police District. I would like to make it clear that it is not up to me, as Minister of Justice, to decide whether there has been a criminal offence. It will initially be for the prosecution authority to assess it. The media we have seen raises a number of questions and has created the impression that major illegalities have been committed. I have not been aware that illegalities have been committed. Nor has the Minister of Foreign Affairs or other members of the Government been familiar with this. Before I go on to explain what I have collected about the Norwegian authorities' position and/or knowledge of the vigilance of the US Embassy, I would like to give a detailed assessment of what activities must be considered to be fully legitimate and legitimate, and then to reveal some ambiguities that the case is going on in relation to international law and Norwegian law. I would like to point out that a number of activities under the American Embassy have been known and legitimately carried out, but I would also like to address cases where the border crossings have not been as clear and activities have been perceived as undesirable. Finally, I would like to address the need for any action. I would like to make it clear that the dossier is based on what it has been possible to clean up within the time I have had at my disposal. I have to make sure that new information can be provided, as well as that the investigations conducted by the police and the prosecution authority will be able to produce information that an administrative inquiry would not be able to reveal. So little about responsibilities and legal frameworks. The Norwegian authorities are obliged to ensure the security of embassies and other foreign diplomatic interests in Norway, as other countries are obliged to ensure the security of Norway’s diplomatic interests abroad. In Norway, several agencies cooperate on the work of embassy security. The PST is responsible for preventing terrorist acts and other politically motivated violence in Norway. If the PST considers that the threat image of an embassy or an ambassador has changed, the PST will develop written threat assessments. If the implementation of police tactical protection measures for an embassy or an ambassador is recommended, this is carried out by the Oslo Police District. The PST threat assessments for embassies and ambassadors are communicated to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Police Directorate and the Oslo Police District. The Oslo Police District is primarily responsible for the security of the embassies and is the day-to-day point of contact of the embassies on security issues. The security situation of the embassies is regularly discussed between the Oslo Police District and the PST. It follows from international law that embassies in Norway have the right to implement their own security measures towards their own embassy area, including in particular: The residence of the ambassador. The tasks of embassy watchkeeping and security will generally consist in preventing unauthorised persons from entering the area or entering the building, controlling those in the area and, where appropriate, renouncing those who do not have legal access. In this context, they will also be able to operate outside the building itself, but in such proximity that the watchkeeping must be considered as part of the building or area protection. When the watchman moves away from the building/area, there will be limitations. They may not carry out tasks considered to be an orderly task entrusted to the Norwegian police. The security measures must comply with Norwegian law, but international law imposes clear limits on how and to what extent the country of destination can intervene in relation to the territory of the embassy. The Norwegian authorities may not enter the embassy's territory without the authorisation of the ambassador. Initially, I would also like to say a little bit about the rules of international law in this field. On this issue, I have consulted the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Under international law, states are sovereign and equal. This follows two starting points: the prohibition of the exercise of foreign authority in Norwegian territory without Norwegian consent and compliance with Norwegian law in Norwegian territory is required. Derogations from these starting points require a basis of international law, either in the form of an agreement or as a result of a practice of international law. Ambassadors represent their state on foreign territory. The activities are governed by the Vienna Convention of 18 April 1961 on diplomatic relations and international customary law. Embassies are identified by international law with the sending State. They are thus also subject to State immunity, which normally prevents their activities from being subject to review by courts of foreign countries. The aim of the immunity rules is to ensure equivalence between sovereign States and the effective implementation of the functions of foreign stations. In this respect, I would also like to stress that the rules of international law in this area are also essential for the performance of functions that the Norwegian State must be able to perform abroad, for example. the recording of information relating to the processing of visas, foreign affairs or consular assistance to Norwegian citizens and to the provision of certain specific security and security needs. This must be possible without the station being subject to transparency or supervision by the host country, which is also in line with extensive international practice. An embassy may perform functions as described in Article 3 of the Vienna Convention. These include, inter alia: the right to observe, record and report to the transmitting country the circumstances and trends of the country of destination, including in sensitive areas such as defence and security, as long as the collection is ‘legally’. What the latter includes is not further defined in the Convention. Whereas it is necessary to become decisive the standards of international law, but also the consideration of the legislation of the country of destination, other than that of the country of dispatch; It also results from the right to report. Information recorded by an embassy may be freely shared with other bodies of the sending State. This results from the freedom of communication of an embassy under the Convention. It follows from Article 24 of the Convention that the archives of the embassy are inviolable. The recording of data in the embassy’s premises is covered by this. In relation to the case to which my statement relates, it can be established that international law provides some guidelines. The embassy has a legitimate basis for collecting information on incidents related to the security of the embassy. A legitimate observation can also be reported in and from the embassy and recorded in a database belonging to a foreign country. Access to safety-related observations is not restricted to security within the embassy building. Observations relating to an area in the immediate vicinity of the embassy must be possible in the light of developments in the threat picture. For example, it may be justified to collect information about suspiciously parked cars outside the premises, or for example. whether persons whose conduct appears to be capable of giving rise to a real suspicion of a threat. However, observations recorded must be limited to events of safety significance for the embassy. There is a basis here to expect relevant information to be provided to the Norwegian police. But it also matters how systematic or intrusive the observations are. The filming of all passersby at the embassy for the purpose of registering personal data is not acceptable – as an example. The limit towards unacceptable intelligence must be based to a certain extent on judgement. So a little bit about the Norwegian legislation. Since the matter concerns the activity carried out for or on behalf of a foreign country, I would like to underline the interface between international law and Norwegian law. The application of Norwegian laws and regulations may also be affected by international law and the specific considerations of intergovernmental law. Norwegian legislation must be interpreted with this relationship in mind. In certain cases, this may raise difficult demarcation issues. Several laws may be relevant, and the most recent are the law on watchkeeping activities, the law on personal data, the criminal law and the law on criminal proceedings. However, there is already reason to stress that the prosecution authority is enforcing the rules of criminal law and the Criminal Procedures Act, and the Data Protection Authority is enforcing the Data Protection Act. Both the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Data Protection Authority have a stand-alone and independent role. As mentioned above, the prosecution authority has started an investigation into the case. The Data Protection Authority stated in a press release on 4 November that it might be relevant to go into the matter. It is not a task for me, as Minister of Justice, to go into a concrete assessment of whether there has been a criminal offence or whether Norwegian data protection legislation has been violated. With regard to the organisation and conduct of the watchkeeping in the embassy area itself, it is evident that due to the inviolability rules, the Norwegian authorities have been prevented from overseeing this, or from enforcing Norwegian law. Outside the embassy area, Norwegian authorities are allowed to intervene against unwanted activities. Norwegian civil servants may also be held liable for any criminal offences. However, this is up to the prosecution authority to decide. Guards in and around an embassy could be watchkeeping in the sense of the Act. However, the Act on custodians’ activities does not apply to the self-attendance carried out by its own staff at the embassy, as the case may be. The safeguard activity law of 2001 does not include self-monitoring. In the case of amendments adopted by law of 19 June 2009 No 85, concerning amendments to the Act on Watchkeeping, the scope of the Act was extended to self-monitoring. However, self-monitoring of foreign country property for embassy purposes is not covered, even after the changes in the law. Notwithstanding this, the law on watchkeeping activities could be of some interest, inter alia. in order to draw up the boundary between watchkeeping activities which the embassy can carry out and police duties which it is exclusively of the Norwegian authorities to carry out. Because only the police can enforce laws and rules related to crime control and order, and it's only the police who have a legal basis to use physical power. The general rule is that persons performing security services should only observe, control and report. It is also possible to hire private investigators. Some words about it. They do not operate within a defined watch area but are more closely related to the task that they can perform by agreement with the contracting entity. Typical tasks are the tracing of persons or objects, the shading of private persons in order to provide evidence that he is carrying out or is failing to perform an act, assistance to defenders in criminal matters or in re-entry proceedings. I find reason to stress that the observation, including photography, of people in public places is initially fully permissible. It also applies in the context of demonstrations. In this context, it can only be recalled that media representatives are often active in this way. The central law on the collection, registration and retention of personal data in Norwegian law is the Personal Data Act of 14 April 2000 No. 31. The law applies as a starting point to all who handle personal data in Norway and who must be regarded as established here in the country. However, in relation to embassies of foreign countries, there are clear limitations that will also have legal relevance. The Norwegian authorities do not have access to the embassy's areas without authorisation and therefore cannot exercise control over the operation of the embassy. It has previously been demonstrated in my statement that embassies under international law have the right to observe and record information and events, without initially being subject to concession requirements on the part of the country of destination. As the penal code § 91a has been mentioned several times in the media in connection with this matter, I will briefly mention the provision. Paragraph 91(a) of the Criminal Act affects it as «secretly or by illegal means in favour of a foreign State seeks to collect information on political or personal matters whose communication to another country is known or should be understood may harm the interests of Norway or endanger the lives, health, freedom or property of individuals». I will neither deal with the interpretation nor the application of this provision in relation to specific cases, as the issue of whether there has been a breach of this or other criminal provisions in the present case falls within the jurisdiction of the prosecution. I am very strongly responding to claims that confidentiality rules are being violated. In many cases, they are a supporter to maintain public confidence and to carry out their tasks in the best interests of society. According to the last paragraph of Section 121 of the Criminal Act, professional secrecy also applies after the employee of the police or prosecution authority has ceased the service or the work. In this case, questions may first be raised as to whether the watchkeeping personnel have disclosed information they have received during their previous services in the police. Secondly, there may be questions as to whether members of the watchkeeping team have been able to obtain informal information from police records, if necessary by contacting persons who remain in the police. However, I stress that whether this has happened is a matter that falls within the scope of the prosecution authority and the investigation that is now under way. So to the information that we first received from the U.S. authorities. After the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took up the matter on 3 November, the U.S. side informed about the background of the security programme and the activities of the embassy security unit in Oslo. What I am now saying is fully received from the US authorities and must not be attributed to assessments by the Norwegian authorities. It has been reported from the United States that the U.S. Foreign Service Examining Survey Programme, known as Surveillance Detection — SD — Program, was established following the terrorist attacks on the U.S. Embassy in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi in 1998. In these bomb attacks, 12 Americans and over 200 citizens in the host countries were killed. In the wake of these attacks, the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs instructed its foreign stations to implement local security surveillance programmes aimed at their stations as soon as possible. The establishment of the local programmes based on studies showing that terrorist attacks most often occur after previous observation activities with a view to identifying the vulnerability of the terrorist targets. The US Ministry of Foreign Affairs instructed its foreign stations to fully coordinate their SD programmes with the competent authority of the host country. The U.S. side has provided information on what tasks are being carried out by the security unit for the detection of scans, the so-called Surveillance Detection Unit, SDU, at the U.S. Embassy in Oslo. The unit shall support the work of the Government of the United States of America and the safety authorities of the country of destination in order to identify and report on any monitoring. It is argued that this is included as one of a number of routine measures to protect foreign stations together with physical security measures such as fence construction, surveys of cars visiting the embassy area and the use of metal detectors. These measures are considered to be a necessary part of the measures taken in conjunction with the host country to protect American diplomats and their premises, as well as the Nordics working at, visiting or meeting at the embassy. The functions of the unit are declared by the Americans to be within the scope of the tasks of foreign stations within the meaning of Article 3 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Interrelationship. According to the measures taken by the United States of America, the unit complements Norway's measures to protect embassy premises in accordance with the obligations of the country of destination under Article 22(2) of the Convention. 2nd@item: inlistbox The personnel of the unit shall observe discreetly and systematically areas near the embassy premises with a view to identifying any screening or other suspicious behaviour. Examples of suspicious behaviour include photographing of the embassy or residence, unannounced building works, unexplained stay over time near the latter objects, or repeated passage in front of the premises of the same vehicle. In some cases, where there is a reasonable basis for believing that demonstrations could lead to the security of the embassy being affected, SDU employees observe activities of demonstrators with a view to communicating to the embassy early warning of possible incidents that may affect the security of the embassy. The US authorities stress that such units have no objectives other than ensuring the security of American diplomatic premises and personnel abroad. The entities are, however, prohibited from participating in any form of investigation, any measure to put an end to any screening or any other measure beyond a purely safety-based observation programme. In order to be able to take follow-up action, information provided by the unit is required to be provided to the authorities of the country of destination. In addition, in order to identify any threatening survey patterns targeting American diplomatic objectives, it is considered necessary by the US to analyse the observations made over time. The personnel of the unit shall therefore be instructed to record individual descriptions, time and location of observations, activity descriptions, description of the vehicle and, if applicable, registration number. This is information which, in the view of the United States, any person who is a witness to suspicious behaviour should be expected to communicate to the government. To complement descriptions of individuals or suspicious activity, the personnel of the unit, where practical, will also be able to take pictures. According to the Americans, the unit's reports are recorded in a database for the treatment and analysis of security incidents, known as the Security Incident Management and Analysis System, SIMAS. The database records all suspicious activity and police reports from US foreign stations. At the embassy, the assessment of the reporting of a so-called regional security officer, RSO, who is an American diplomat is conducted. The database may also record information that would be received from the police authorities of the host country as a result of threats to American diplomatic premises or personnel. Information about this database is otherwise publicly available on the Internet. The US side has underlined that the effectiveness of the programme is entirely dependent on coordination with Norwegian authorities. Furthermore, the US side suggests that it has had close coordination with the latter over a ten-year period. This I will come back to in the review of the facts. So far from the American presentation. I will now go over to describe the information that has been possible to produce on this matter after I have become aware of the matter, including what the Norwegian authorities at different levels have been familiar with. The subsequent statement of fact is based on searches by the archives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Police Service, the Police Directorate, the Oslo Police Districts and the Kripos, as well as other investigations. The presentation is as exhaustive as possible. The amount of information to be monitored in connection with such a statement is significant, and, as I said in the introduction, I have to make sure that further information can be provided on the occasion of the case at a later stage. Moreover, I point out that all the explanations, on which I now base my review, will be made publicly available in their entirety today. In order to give an overall presentation of the matter, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would also like to briefly explain the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the matter. Following the attacks on U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, the United States intensified security work at all its embassies, including in Oslo. From 2000 onwards, a number of meetings have been recorded between representatives of the US Embassy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where security issues were discussed. However, the review of the archives and discussions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the staff concerned has not revealed that representatives of the U.S. Embassy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have explained to the Security Unit or its activities. I will return to two meetings between representatives of the Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the beginning of 2007 on this matter. For many years, the PST has been in contact with the US Embassy on matters relating to the security of the embassy and/or the ambassador, which is natural in its responsibility to prevent threats to the embassy and the ambassador. The contact of PST is essential in two respects: when the embassy is concerned for its own safety, or when the PST considers that the threat image of the embassy or ambassador may have changed. There is also contact between the embassy and the PST when high-ranking US officials visit Norway. The PST contact point is the embassy's Regional Security Officer, RSO. The Embassy's RSO is the security officer of the embassy, and it's the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs. As Oslo Police District is the professional contact point of the RSO, the PST contact on the threat picture will be coordinated with the Oslo Police District. I have been informed that most of the PST contacts with the embassy take place on the initiative of the embassy, and concern for their own security. These concerns must be seen in the context of the terrorist acts against the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, the terrorist acts of 11 September 2001 and the general threat of terrorism against American interests. Since the late 1990s – and especially until 2007 – I have been informed that the PST has received many enquiries from the RSO, which have been based on the security concerns of the embassy. These enquiries are in written form and are usually sent to both the Oslo Police District and the PST. The enquiries concern the fact that the embassy has made observations of persons or vehicles reconnoitering around the embassy and usually contains a request for further investigation. Kripos informed on his side that the contact with the embassy had been a message. The contact that has been made took place between 2001 and 2003, and 10 cases have been recorded. Kripos states that the main impression is that ‘the pattern of the information exchange does not differ from that which would be normal in the relationship between the police and other authorities which have their own security arrangements’. In 2003, Kripos decided that requests from the embassy should be answered by the Oslo police district, which is responsible for the security around the embassy and the ambassador's residence. I assume that Kripos did not register unwanted or illegal activity between 2001 and 2003. I have been informed that the Oslo police district is in contact with all the embassies, but the extent of this contact will naturally vary with what the individual representation is exposed to. The U.S. Embassy is the largest in Oslo, and on a global scale also the representation that has the most intensified threat picture facing itself. This implies necessary contact and meetings with the security officers of the embassy. So a chronological overview of PST's relationship to this case. The PST stated that in December 2000 a report was received by the U.S. authorities expressing concerns about the security situation of the U.S. Embassy. Later that month, POT received a new letter from the US authorities on the security situation of the embassy, and POT was asked to prepare a threat assessment for the embassy. POT’s threat assessment was developed in mid-December 2000. The threat of terror against the embassy was considered significant, and it was found that the embassy building had several security weaknesses. The threat assessment also mentioned some of the embassy's own security work. It was noted that the embassy has ‘employed security personnel to depatriate outside the embassy’ and that this has led the embassy to report more suspicious incidents, such as reconnaissance activities against the embassy. In the threat assessment, POT also stated that in some cases the embassy security personnel had partially investigated these incidents before being reported to the police. The assessment also noted that POT had pointed out to the security officers of the embassy that this was ‘an unfortunate solution’. The threat assessment was communicated to the Ministry of Justice and the Oslo Police District. A new threat assessment was developed by POT on 17 January 2001. This was sent to the Ministry of Justice, the Police Directorate and the police chief in Oslo. On 22 February 2001, the Ministry of Justice sent the threat assessment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This assessment shows, inter alia, that: that the Oslo police district has implemented several measures to increase the security of the U.S. Embassy and that the embassy has ‘own staff security guards outside the embassy’. It is clear from the Oslo Police Department statement that the guards had only the task of observing and reporting to the police. This restriction was made known to the security officers of the embassy, and a continuous police guard was also established during the opening hours of the embassy. That the embassy had its own shell guard was considered appropriate by the Oslo police district from the safety production for which the police were responsible. Among other things, the facts were: referred to in the World Gang – VG – 24 May 2003. In this regard, Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum replied on 30 May 2003 to a written question from Mr Bjørn Jacobsen concerning the granting of extended powers to the secret services of foreign countries to operate in Norwegian territory. The Minister of Justice’s letter of reply states: ‘The announcement in the media that extended powers have been granted to the services of foreign countries to operate in the Norwegian territory does not result in any correctness.’ This was also repeated in a letter dated 4 June 2003 from then State Secretary Jørn Holme to the Workers' Party's large group by Kjell Engretsen. In its statement, the PST stated that in August 2006 a European Security Service sent a letter to cooperating European security services, including the PST. The letter was received in the PST on 21 August 2006. The letter informed that the country’s authorities had received a request from the US authorities to launch a ‘Surveillance Detection Program’. [[SDP]] The letter stated that the US authorities initiated the SDP at the embassy in 2000, but then without informing the authorities of the country concerned. The authorities discovered the activities of the SDP and it was found that the SDP had made observations far beyond the close environment of the embassy. The authorities required that the activities be stopped and that the security of the embassy be carried out within the regulated area. This must have been done. Furthermore, the letter to the PST referred to the US safety authorities as having informed that the SDP had been deployed in several countries and requested information on whether the SDP had been deployed in other European countries. The letter from the relevant European Security Service was not answered by the PST, but the security work of the embassy was discussed as a follow-up to the enquiry by a European security service in meetings between the PST and the Oslo Police District in the autumn of 2006. The enquiry was taken seriously and examined further against Norwegian conditions. I see no reason to criticise that the follow-up took some time. The PST stated that the security work of the U.S. Embassy was discussed in the context of a permanent meeting between the management group in the Oslo police district and the management group in the PST on 7 November 2006. According to the meeting report, the then head of the PST stated that ‘it is not acceptable for the Americans to become too active in relation to Norwegian citizens’. Furthermore, the record shows that ‘there was agreement that Oslo Police Districts and the PST should have a special meeting on this subject’. On 17 November 2006, the former Head of PST sent a letter to the police chief of Oslo concerning the request from the Liaison Service for the presence of the SDP in European countries. The letter was entitled ‘American Foreign Stations — US Surveillance Detection Program’. The letter commented that the PST has had indications that security personnel at the US Embassy in Oslo have ‘implemented observation activities in the embassy’s neighbourhood’. A meeting between the PST and the Oslo Police District on 13 October 2006 was also referred to, in which Oslo Police District must have confirmed that the embassy has employed people to carry out observation activities in the area around the embassy. According to the PST, it must also have been found that these persons have office premises in a neighboring building of the embassy, and that some of the observers have police background. It again shows, in my opinion, that the police had knowledge of the activity, that someone from the embassy's guard was stationed outside the embassy's premises, and that they were doing observation around the embassy. In the PST letter of 17 November 2006 to Oslo Police District, a meeting was also referred to in the autumn of 2006 between the Oslo Police District, the Embassy Regional Security Officer, i.e. RSO, and PST. In this meeting, the RSO of the embassy stated that the embassy had ‘a comprehensive register of vehicles’. The PST letter referred to this opinion from the Embassy’s RSO and pointed out that this ‘on the basis of PST’s assessment confirms that the embassy carries out systematic surveillance of persons and vehicles and that this information is being stored’. Against this background, the PST requested to be further briefed on the information that the Oslo Police District had to have on the observation activities taking place under the auspices of the U.S. Embassy. I noticed that the police wanted to go further into the scope. In his statement, the Oslo Police District reports on this: ‘With information from PST in November 2006, it was known that the US authorities had launched a ‘safety concept’ at their stations, called the US Surveillance Detection Program [[SDP]] In its statement, the Police Directorate stated that a meeting was held on 13 December 2006 between the Oslo Police District, the Police Directorate and the PST. The theme of the meeting was the ‘ Observation Group’ activity and the group’s contact with the Oslo Police District and the PST, with requests for follow-up of observations, etc. The meeting also referred to the Chief PST letter of 17 November 2006. On this basis, the Directorate of Police asked for a meeting with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the Diplomatic Department. P.O.D.P.D. says: ‘It was assessed that JD would not be involved until the U.S. had assessed whether there was a basis for an enquiry through diplomatic channels to the U.S. Embassy.’ The Security Department of the Police Directorate and the Diploma Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a meeting on 4 January 2007, where indications of undesirable American activity outside the embassy were taken up. The conclusion of this meeting was that the diplomacy department would deal with the matter internally, and contact the directorate for any further follow-up. A new meeting of the same actors was held on 14 February 2007. The conclusion of the meeting was that there was a need for more concrete information to provide a better basis for possible diplomatic contact through the U.S. Embassy. In its statement, the PST informed that a permanent meeting between the Management Group of the Oslo Police District and the PST PST leadership group in March 2007 referred to the discussion at the Management Group meeting on 7 November 2006. According to the March 2007 report, the Oslo police district commented that: ‘have been in contact with the Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the occasion of the case. To the extent that the Oslo Police District identifies matters of importance, this is sought out at a lower level». I assume that it was considered most practical that unwanted matters, if any, discovered by police officers working around the embassy, were directly addressed to the security personnel at the embassy. In mid-April 2007, a meeting was held between the Police Directorate, the PST and the Oslo Police District. The background to this meeting was the NATO Foreign Minister’s meeting in Oslo in 2007. The Police Directorate’s statement shows that the Directorate informed the U.D. at its meeting on 14 February 2007 that the police had to document and report properly to the U.S. Embassy on irregular security-related activities, as a better basis if this were to be re-opened with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the basis for a referral to the U.S. Embassy. The police directorate also informed that no such documentation or reporting has been received from the Oslo Police District since this meeting. The Directorate of Police summarises in its statement that, after the meeting in mid-April, there has been no ‘contacted/informed on issues related to the ‘Observation Group’, and on ‘the results of meetings held were assessed in such a way that it was not necessary to proceed with the case to the JD’. Oslo Police Department stated in its statement that it was assessed that the information available regarding the activity of the embassy was too non-specific. It also states that the police Directorate, the PST and the Oslo police districts agreed. ‘that we should clarify the responsibilities of the embassy, as the Oslo police district itself did, and in liaison with the PST. As we perceived this, at the overall level, no decision was made on the intervention. [[...]] Both in the police district meetings with the embassy, as well as in our handling of their requests, the division of responsibilities was clarified». I am pleased that the Norwegian police department has clearly pointed out to the embassy what it considers to be an activity within Norwegian law, and it was clear that these limits should not be crossed. From mid-2007, Oslo Police District further informed that there was agreement between the Oslo Police District, the Police Directorate and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Oslo Police District would continue to charge incidents and incidents where the embassy was supposed to go beyond its limits in order to obtain information they did not receive from the Oslo Police District or others. From the end of the statement from the Oslo Police District, I quote: ‘Oslo police districts have observed isolated events and activities, at intervals of years, which, in our opinion, have not been illegal but unwanted. It has not in any way been identified as systematic intelligence or surveillance, in relation to what we associate with it. This has, however, been of such a nature that, on our part, it has been brought up for some time with the embassy and communicated primarily with PST and POD, but also in general in the SUL meeting.» SUL is the Police Coordination Committee for Lifeguard and Security Issues for Government, Royal Family, etc. I quote: ‘There has been no agreement, approval or consent of any kind, directly or indirectly to the activities now described by the current police department management. We have also obtained statements from previous management, which confirm this." PST provides, inter alia: the following summary and assessment in its statement of 11 November: ‘PST cannot see having been informed by the embassy or other US authorities about the embassy’s SDU. The PST can also not see having given any type of approval to the SDU or the type of business that TV 2 News claims that the embassy should have operated. PST is aware that former PST employees have been added to the embassy, but assume that former employees do not provide security graded or otherwise silent information they know from PST to a third party. This is also taken into account that when the employment ceases, they do not seek to obtain new information from the PST or that staff in the PST provide such information.’ To sum up, I would first of all like to point out that neither PST, POD, i.e. the Police Directorate, the Oslo Police District, nor Kripos have perceived that there have been illegalities related to US security work, even though in the period of time, among other things. have raised questions as to whether work on some occasions is on the outside and appears undesirable. Secondly, neither Kripos, the Oslo Police District, nor the PST, following investigations, have found any indication that there has been a breach of professional secrecy or information that should not have been provided, but it is clarified that this cannot be excluded. In addition, I point out that investigations have been carried out with a view to detecting such possible criminal offences. I also find reason to inform you that the Ministry of Justice has received information on the occasion of the case, regardless of the statements made by the parties to the proceedings during the last two weeks. This concerns a fire extinguishment, which is otherwise known by reference to the NRK today. The information was considered relevant for the investigation. The information was therefore forwarded to the police via the national lawyer. I also point out that on 12 November 2010, Oslo Police District was requested by the Department of Justice to investigate allegations that an employee in the police district should have been appointed simultaneously by the relevant U.S. Embassy observation unit, as it appeared in the media on 11 November 2010. In a letter dated 12 November 2010, Oslo Police District informed that this could concern three civil servants. Oslo police districts have not completed their assessment of these issues and will continue their treatment here. The Oslo police district has also transmitted information to the Eastfold police district on 10 November, i.e. before the matter was discussed in the media. Therefore, investigations are still to be carried out around this. It also remains to be seen the significance of this, but I am not surprised that this attracts attention. In response to the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 3 November 2010, the US authorities provided information on coordination between the SDU and the Norwegian police authorities on 13 November 2010. I choose to explain this enquiry together, when it was issued in time after the police directorate and the police security service made their presentations to the ministry on 11 November. It was necessary to address these when the Americans stated dates and events that were not mentioned in the statement of 11 November. We have received such additional information from the Americans: In instructions from the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs to U.S. embassies around the world to launch the SDU programme, the embassies were asked to coordinate with the host country authorities. In a letter from the Security Officer of the US Embassy, Regional Security Officer – RSO, dated 5 May 2000, the embassy must have informed about the planned establishment of an SDU. The letter was addressed to two named officials of the Oslo Police District and POT. The letter communicated an invitation to send a representative to their respective departments to attend a training session for SDU staff to form a picture of the training course. Further in the year 2000, the security officer of the embassy, RSO, and the head of the SDU, had a meeting with Police Director Killengeren. In late 2001 or early 2002, the head of what the Americans call the police intelligence unit and two other police officers visited the SDU office to discuss coordination between the Norwegian police and the SDU. Informal guidelines as well as formal procedures for close cooperation between the Norwegian police and the SDU were established. As far as the Americans are concerned, in 2002, a member of the SDU was called by the Norwegian police to identify a person suspected of being in charge of surveillance of the U.S. Embassy. On another occasion, including in 2002, the SDU informed the Norwegian police and the Oslo police of registered surveillance activities directed at the embassy, on which the Oslo police identified the persons involved as diplomats employed at the embassy of a third country. In 2003 — and still in the US information to us — a formal system was established that enabled the SDU to contact directly the Operation Commander of the Oslo Police Command Centre. SDU has had 10 or more such direct calls per year for several years. In 2004, two suspicious individuals were observed several times around the embassy. SDU informed the operation manager at the Oslo Police Department, who sent a patrol car, who examined the case and took up an explanation from the two. In 2007, the SDU coordinator met the police director in preparation for the US Minister of Foreign Affairs visit to Oslo. During the visit, SDU became aware of a group of people near the U.S. Embassy and cooperated with the Norwegian police on their observation. The SDU then handed over the results of its observations to the Norwegian police. At the beginning of January 2010, as a follow-up to SDU personnel reporting on possible screening activity targeting them, the security officers of the embassy, i.e. RSO, spoke with the Norwegian police/Oslo police. The Norwegian police confirmed that there was a Norwegian reporter behind the incident. During the subsequent conversation, both the PST and the Oslo police expressed their understanding of what the SDU was, what the SDU personnel were driving and where the SDU office was located. The Department of Justice presented the above information, which we have now gone through, from the American side to the POD, i.e. the Police Directorate, the Police Security Service and the Oslo Police District. In a previous report from police director Killangereen of 11 November, it appears that she had a meeting in 2000 with security personnel from the embassy, but then as police chief in Oslo. The meeting is dated April 10th. Her statement shows that no information was given about a special guard at the embassy, but it was stated in the meeting that the embassy was concerned about its own safety. The feedback from the PSTs and the Oslo police districts is that the description of the contact between the US and Norwegian authorities is mainly drawn to the attention of the US authorities. However, both the PST and the Oslo police districts state in their respective letters of reply of 15 November 2010 that they are not familiar with the letter of 5 May 2000. I therefore register that the letter has not been confirmed received either in the Oslo police district or in the POT. On 16 November, however, the Ministry of Justice received a copy of the letter from the US authorities via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The PST confirms that representatives from the POT Investigation Department visited the Civil Guard Office in 2001 or 2002 as part of its regular work on embassy security. However, it is not stated whether this office was located inside or outside the embassy. With regard to the talks mentioned in 2010, the PST informed that the embassy was engaged in observation activities in the embassy’s neighbourhood. The PST was not informed of the duties performed by the Norwegian security guards. Oslo police districts inform this point that knowledge of the SDU was not the subject of this meeting. I have also noticed that the Oslo police district finally writes the following – I quote: ‘The presentation of the Office, however, makes it apparent that the implementation of the SD programme has little concrete anchoring, but is based on possible letters and various ‘indications’ on a relatively low level of management. In our opinion, a regular handling of such a concept would most naturally belong to a higher level, and also to a political level.’ Summarizingly, I want to break down the themes I have outlined into nine main questions. Firstly, is authorisation required for the establishment of a security unit at the embassy? The answer to this is no, and no specific permission has been granted. Secondly, can such a device conduct observation, graph information and take pictures? The answer to this is yes. Thirdly, is authorisation required to establish a database at an embassy? The answer is no. Fourth, can legitimately obtained information be recorded in such an embassy database? The answer is yes. Fifthly, can a guard have only premises within the embassy's territory? The answer is no. Sixth, has the United States ever briefed the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the establishment and operation of the Security Unit? The answer is no. The Americans haven't stated this either. Seventh, has the other Norwegian authorities been aware that the embassy has operated observations and records related to the security of the embassy? The answer is yes. This has been known through contact between the police authorities and the embassy. Eighth, has there been any evidence to suggest that there has been a breach of the duty of professional secrecy of police officers? The prosecution authority is continuously assessing whether this is to be investigated under the authority of the Special Police Unit and it is too early to conclude. ninth, has there been any evidence to suggest that the personnel associated with the security unit have breached the general freedom of action? There have been some descriptions of individual pisods where this question can be raised, but it is up to the ongoing investigation to decide on this. I want to add that the starting point must be very clear. Norwegian authorities are responsible for the external security of embassies. In addition, I would like to add that if embassies want to implement security measures in addition to internal security, this must be communicated to Norwegian authorities through diplomatic channels. I therefore find reason to inform the Storting that I will both assess the need for and launch a number of actions, both alone and in consultation with other ministers. When, as Minister of Justice, I had no knowledge of this matter before it was announced that the media would make a case on it, I therefore find reason to review the information and alert obligation of the Directorate of Police and the PST to the Ministry of Justice to assess whether there is a basis for tightening up this obligation. In this context, I would also like to look at the procedures currently in force for direct contact between the underlying departments of the Ministry of Justice and other departments. Let it be clear: I expect irregular practices to be reported to the overall authority. With that, I also assume that political authorities are being briefed. It is clear that communication between the Norwegian authorities and the representations of foreign countries in many contexts has taken place at a practical and operational level. There is a need for a greater degree of formalisation and reporting procedures for this activity. I will therefore, in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, ensure that guidelines are provided to ensure this. Lack of such guidance has clearly shown such a need through this statement and the process that has been carried out to clarify activity. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will, in its regular contact with representatives of foreign countries, reiterate the requirement that the staff of embassies respect Norwegian law in accordance with the Vienna Convention. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, together with the undersigned, will initiate a follow-up meeting with the US Embassy to clarify the framework for the tasks of the security forces outside the area of the embassy. I see a need to look at possible quarantine and beekeeping rules for individual occupational groups. The Ministry of Modernisation, set up in 2005 ‘Guidelines for quarantine and prohibition of action by officials and officials in the event of a new post’. Today's legislation allows quarantine for six months and a case ban for another six months. No separate quarantine provisions have been drawn up for police personnel today. The use of quarantine raises many difficult issues. Assessments of using information/experience into another job may be unfortunate/not wanted in society against professional prohibition issues. I have already addressed issues with the Ministry of Defence, which have similar issues with their personnel, and we agree that work should be started to address this and beekeeping issues. The Ministry of Modernisation has developed ethical guidelines for civil servants of 7 September 2005. In addition, the Police Directorate has developed its own ethics counsellor for the Police and Lone Civil Service Senate. It is intended to be a tool for the individual police districts and special agencies in their performance of the work. In spite of this, however, I find it necessary to assess whether there is a basis for clarifying the ethical guidelines for police officers and insofar as they are also legally anchored, and in particular against the contact with former police staff. After completion of the investigation and prosecution, I will, if necessary in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, assess whether there is a need for further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1766	The President will propose that, in accordance with paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, a brief comment round is now opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and possibly a closing post from the Council of State, limited to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1771	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a thorough presentation of the serious allegations made through the reports by TV 2 on security measures relating to the US Embassy. It is important for the debate and it is important for democracy to have full transparency in such matters. It is well connected with the transparency line chosen by the government in this matter. In the view of the Workers' Party, it has been absolutely essential that all the facts be gathered, and that a statement be made to the Stortinget as soon as possible. I also think it is both reassuring and necessary that the national lawyer has started an investigation in order to get a thorough assessment of possible criminal offences in the case. In recent years, there has been a strong emphasis in the United Kingdom on creating trust, strengthening control and ensuring a legal basis under which Norwegian police and secret services work to prevent serious security threats and terrorism in Norway. It provides the essential work carried out by the secret services, the necessary trust and legitimacy. The fact that U.S. embassies have been threatened and that security measures are needed is not a new situation. This is a development we have unfortunately seen since the terrorist attacks on the US embassies in Dar-es-Salaam and Nairobi in 1998. After that time, Stortinget has been aware that it was necessary to reinforce the preparedness and security measures against several foreign embassies. This is also the reason why the Storting has given increased appropriations to PST. It has been known and recognised by the Norwegian authorities that the US Embassy has been particularly vulnerable. Nevertheless, there has never been any doubt that the use of the most in-depth investigation methods and means of protecting foreign embassies is a responsibility for the Norwegian authorities in general, and operationally a responsibility for the Norwegian police and the police security service. We understand that the US authorities need to protect their interests and their embassy, but everyone in this room obviously agrees that in Norway the Norwegian law applies, including for this type of business. There must be no illegal activity or the creation of the impression that other countries can accommodate Norwegian soil. Uncertainty about these principles will not strengthen, but rather weaken, the fight against terrorism. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice's statement so clearly emphasizes that nothing has been revealed unlawfully. Nevertheless, there is reason to note that the Norwegian police authorities believe that the American side has acted on the outside of the acceptable. I assume that the American authorities, in their continued work with their own safety, are acting in such a way that there is no basis again for such statements by the Norwegian police authority. A crucial question has been whether some acceptance or consent has been given by the Norwegian authorities to the monitoring of Norwegian citizens. From what I have heard today from the Minister of Justice's statement to the Grand Council, it is probable that political authorities have neither been informed nor given their consent in any way. Another question is whether it was right for the Norwegian police not to inform political authorities, when one has itself stated that parts of the business were at the extreme of the acceptable. The future debate should therefore seek to clarify when and how overall political authority should be informed about such matters for the future. Like the Minister of Justice, I also make clear my reservations about the outcome of the investigation launched by the National Attorney General. Should it show that the Norwegian law is broken, it will of course be necessary to come back to this matter. I am pleased that the statements from all the underlying agencies are being published today. It will provide both the Storting and the public as such with an opportunity to assess this complex case. I believe that the statement shows that there is a relatively broad framework for ensuring the security of embassies in Norwegian law and under international law. There is also a very clear framework in which the limit goes against illegal activity. I believe the signal from the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to clarify this to foreign embassies is positive. It is important that the bodies of the Storting should be given the appropriate opportunity to follow up the actions of the Minister of Justice, and that is what I expect the President to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1797	Let me thank the Minister of Justice for a very good, comprehensive and detailed statement, which I believe helped to put this matter in a completely different perspective than what has so far been made through very many claims in different media. Having heard the statement, my experience is that it probably also helps to alleviate some of the anxiety and fear that may have been created among some citizens of Norway. But let me also stress that the Progress Party has a great deal of respect for the security needs of the United States, the need to protect itself, the need to try to help ward off acts of terrorism, especially because we know the vulnerable position of the United States in this regard. That has been said, not at the expense of the legal security of Norwegian citizens. That is what this matter is all about. What I think is coming out of this statement is that there are many people who have known a lot for a long time, without necessarily having moved to the country's top authorities. But I do realize that this statement in many ways absolves the U.S. authorities from many of the speculations, allegations and accusations that have been raised in recent times. What I see as the two slightly unclear moments after this presentation is related to the role of the embassy. I perceive the Minister of Justice there that it is essentially consistent with what the police and the PST have perceived, but that there are some uncertainties that I think it is close to looking at something more. And then I guess I sensed a maybe greater ambiguity in the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and especially the diplomat section. It is also a relationship I believe it is natural that we go into more detail. I record that, at least as far as the investigation carried out by the government is concerned, illegalities have not been detected. I'm glad to hear that, although it still remains to be seen through the investigation that is now ongoing. The focus that the Minister of Justice had focused on future actions, we see as good tracks as it may be useful to pursue further, based on the considerations that I also think the Minister of Justice did in a good way. Therefore, the Progress Party has been set up to follow this matter further in the appropriate committee, in order to contribute to any intensification of existing legislation, which may in the future help to avert similar events. Of course, we are also prepared to pursue the possible ambiguities that I believe are attached to this statement. However, I think that the presentation was very comprehensive and good, given the time aspect we have in this matter. So all the favors of the Minister of Justice for that! But, as I said, the matter has not been concluded in any way, and that is why we would like to contribute constructively in the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1819	Let me also join those who thank you for a detailed, structured and good account of what the Council of State has so far found out about the matter, both in view of the legal border crossings, the rights of the US Embassy to combat terrorist attacks against itself also in Norway, and the work done by the police. You could say that there are still questions that can be asked. Many of the questions will be clarified primarily through the investigation by the prosecution authorities and the work they do, whether or not something de facto has happened that could be described as illegalities, or whether or not this could only be an activity on the outside, where it is important to make a borderup, or whether or not someone has done something, such as: related to people who have previously been employed by the police, who have access to police records or anything else that should not normally be done for access to private information about Norwegian citizens. In the case of the Right, surveillance in Norway is permitted, but it shall be legal, it shall be regulated and it shall be controlled in order for it to be exercised. It is necessary to keep an eye on what is going on, including in the case of foreign embassies in Norway — whether it goes beyond borders. The legal certainty of the citizens shall be ensured by the work being done and the methods both legalised and controlled. It is, of course, more difficult when you are dealing with a foreign embassy, but I record that when the U.S. Embassy itself explains its contact with the police and the PST, it is not perceived by the police and the PST as being a wrong explanation. But as far as I got with me, it seems to be adequate for the contact that has been. This means that information that something has been approved, or that something has been approved, and that more people have known, perhaps in the normal discussion, is that there have been border crossings and discussions about what has happened, but that what has been known is believed to have been within the law. Of course, it is possible to ask questions about one at a time in 2007, when the matter was first discussed, should have gone further and examined better whether political authorities should have been informed, that it should have gone up. I see that is among the points that, among other things, State councils have subsequently placed on the follow-up list. I think that's important. I think it is important to combat the lack of information upwards, which often evolves in organisations that may not be quite sure if this is important enough to bother with higher levels. As the situation is today, much of what has been asked questions has been added to the statement given today, but something remains open, simply because there are issues of crime, which it is not up to political authorities to investigate, but which it is up to the police and legal authorities to investigate. We are therefore looking forward to a discussion of how to follow this up further in Stortinget. Irrespective, the Council of State has now delivered a follow-up list in the matter, which we see is reassuring, and which contains some of the points that we have also raised in the public debate. It will be up to Storting's more general discussion to see if there is more that Storting is now going to do business around, or if we are simply going to wait for the prosecution authorities to finish their case. Before they are finished, we will never come to any conclusion as to whether there have been real illegalities, or whether there has been activity in border countries, but not across the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1834	Let me first begin by stating that even in 2010, the Lund Commission is working, because the Minister of Justice on his own initiative has come to the Grand Duchy and has given a very thorough and detailed explanation of the facts, and because all the background documents he mentions are published and can be debated publicly after that. The debate of the last week has shown that there is a broader consensus than the previous one in Norway that other countries' ambassadors in Norway should comply with Norwegian law, whatever country it is in. But there are also some questions raised. After hearing the announcement, I have to say that I ask myself if we still have a PST problem in Norway associated with the secret services. So I'm recording that from 2000, when we get the first information, there is concern in the PST, but no one is informed about the political level. In 2003, the case was raised by a representative of the magistrate who is concerned, but no one was informed of the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice. In 2006, another country’s service contacted by a letter to the PST, where there is a concern, but no one informed about the political path. In 2007, it appears that much of the case is known. The U.D. will be contacted at administrative level, but no one will be notified to the political leadership. My experience with the ministry is that one informs up to political guidance when one is in doubt, and here it may seem that it has been that when one is in doubt, let one be informed upwards. I also noticed that the Oslo police district – clearly quoted in the statement – says that these are matters that should be handled at a different level, at a political level. It has to be followed up. The second question that needs to be followed up is, of course, the relationship to law and order. I think it's right that one of them is going through what my department is law and what is not allowed under international law and Norwegian law, that one does something for what American authorities have asked to do and not asked to do it, and that it is done quite descriptively. But now, of course, we need to have a political discussion about it. I understand from the statement that no permission has been requested for the programme by Norwegian political authorities. Then one might ask: if another foreign state establishes a surveillance program in Norway, rents an apartment and starts registering people in databases, does Norway think that they should ask Norwegian authorities to do so? My and SV's answer to that is yes. We believe the authorities of other countries should ask Norwegian authorities for law. Then someone might say, well, it was in line with international law and Norwegian legislation. Yes, if it wasn't in line with international law and Norwegian law, they shouldn't be asking for law, because then it wasn't even time to get started. But legal measures to this extent should be approved by Norwegian political authorities. That's why I'm also glad that there's now being initiatives from the Minister of Justice to enter into a process around it. Finally, I note that the Minister of Justice says that it is his opinion that renting a room outside an embassy to observe, take pictures, register, collect information and use it in a database in the home country is legal. I feel that it is also necessary to hold a debate on what is a correct understanding of the law, and I look forward to a good debate on it. But I also think it is right to have a debate on what we think is reasonable and correct. Should Norwegian citizens, for example: Does an embassy pass, demonstrate outside – whether it is the American or the Iranian – could experience something like this? Is that right and fair for Norwegian citizens? It must be an important part of the debate. Finally, I would like to commend you for giving a direction to what action you want to take. I look forward to the further debate, and on the SV side we believe it is natural that the matter is dealt with in a committee in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1853	First, I would like to thank you for a very thorough and informative statement by the Minister of Justice. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for so soon notifying the Stortinget that he wanted to make such a statement, and wanted to do so in this Chamber. This is a matter that has created a lot of debate in relation to Norwegian law and in relation to Norwegian sovereignty. I am pleased with the openness and clarity shown by the Minister of Justice all the way. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice in the speech today says that the material – the statements – he has received, is being published, so that everyone who is a participant in the public vocabulary can take part in the full and entire material. The United States is a close ally of Norway and has been an important prelude to Norway’s security and Norwegian security policy for a long time. Their ideals and their thinking have been important for our policies as well. It is important that we are clear and clear in relation to those who are closest to us, that we can say from if the rules are broken, and that we can say from if we believe that the border with regard to the privacy and security of Norwegian citizens is violated. What is important in the presentation – as I see it – is that the Minister of Justice makes it very clear in a very clear way that every embassy has the right to take care of its own security, have its own security unit and take action in the vicinity of its embassy. There is no doubt that the Norwegian law applies in Norway – that you have to comply with Norwegian law even if it is an embassy. The Minister of Justice proposes several measures and explains them. What is important now, I think, is that we still get an open debate in the Storting and that we get a committee hearing. There we can go thoroughly into the presentation and the proposed measures, and then come back to it in a new round in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1864	Thanks also from our side to the Council of State for a thorough presentation and for the openness the Council of State shows with what he is presenting. This case has several pages. As regards the relationship with our closest allies, affected by several, we assume that it is reliable and good, but that Norwegian law applies equally fully in relation to this country's activity in Norway. I want to pay some attention to the constitutional. It depends on who knew what of the political leaders, and whether the responsible have had sufficient overview and control of the underlying bodies, agencies, and taken the necessary political action. It is clear from the statement that the Oslo Police and the Police Department have known and received information about this activity for a while. The presentation by the Council of State confirms this. It has also clearly emerged that the Norwegian authorities were aware that parts of the surveillance were in a grey zone in relation to the permitted zone and that they have found reason to point this out to the US Embassy. The question is, why has the information not been transferred to the Politically Responsible Council of State? What steps are needed to follow this up, the Council of State has said something about it. But I have to say that I react when the statement says that the police district – that is, the Oslo police – assumed that the embassy had a level of activity in its approach to safeguarding its own security that was beyond the convenience of the police. If something's on the outside, it's on the outside of the boundary. As this is described, I think it is striking that neither the PST, the Oslo Police Department, nor, for that matter, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has discussed this phenomenon at management level, have found no reason to inform and inform their political sponsors. There is an important question that the Storting must address in this matter: do we have sufficient political control over our services in this area? There has been an ongoing theme by Stortinget for many years. I see good reason, as announced by the head of the EOS committee, Helga Hernes, that this selection looks at this side of the case. With regard to the follow-up of the Council of State, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice will follow up and inculcate some organizational measures and assess other measures, as he summed it up in his presentation. But I have to ask how the Minister of Justice will follow up the fact that he has not been informed of the information that his underlying offices have had, and the assessments that his underlying offices have made, about an activity that was undesirable and extreme. It raises the question of whether the Minister of Justice has control over his services, but it also raises the question of how the Minister of Justice will follow up on those officials who have not been informed. I read this statement quite clearly to you that the Council of State should have been informed. It is justified that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to go further in these constitutional aspects of the matter. Police investigation has to be completely independent of this. But the Storting has a responsibility to follow up the government's control of its own administration, and has a special responsibility to follow up the government's control of the secret services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1881	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation, which I believe was thorough and proper. It was worth waiting for us. I'm glad the council has taken the time it took, and I think it went very quickly to get so much facts on the table. So I think it's important to say from this pulpit that there's an investigation going on in the case. I believe that as politicians we should not try to influence, but let it go its way and let the investigators get the facts on the table that they need. I want to start by saying, as the Council of State said, that we have used a lot of resources in Norway, including from the Oslo Police Department. I can say that to me as an Oslo citizen, I feel that a lot of the police resources in Oslo since 2000 have gone to the embassies in Norway – located here. It is right to make reference to international conventions, but it is also important to bear in mind that threats to foreign embassies are also threats to the citizens of Oslo. In the stories that the United States has to refer to, for example, in the case of attacks on embassies, there is usually as much harm to the citizens of the city as to the embassy which is the target of the actions. That is why this is also an important issue for the security of Norwegian citizens in Oslo. Ambassadors are in their full right to, and have the right to, protect themselves seams. But we have to contribute, and I also think we've done a lot. What is important to look at in the future is framework and governance. I agree with those who have commented that there are expectations of clearing up, especially in relation to warning of political leadership. It is also to be expected that the countries with which we are allies, and which we regard as our friends, also relate to Norwegian laws and regulations, of course. So it's clear here that this is about system errors, it's about what laws and rules you follow, but I also think that the Council of State has a big challenge in looking at culture and awareness in its own organisations. Awareness is that political leadership has not been notified of something that – as Dagfinn Højbrätten correctly referred to – is on the outside, and on the outside is outside the edge. The other thing that I think it's good that the Council of States is lifting rules are linked to quarantine. One thing is quarantine rules in itself, but quarantine rules also give some signals to a culture, and to an institution that builds a culture, that the information that you actually sit on is something that belongs to our community, that can't be bought for money. It is important that the Council of State assures itself that there are no cultures in the organisations under the Council of State that it seems right to do things just for the purpose is good enough, or only the friend is good enough friend. You don't have to move at the edge of the sea in the case of someone on the list of friends. We in the Left also support the transmission of this to a committee. I think it can support the government's job further to get feedback from Parliament in the form of a comment, and not just in quick comments right now. Then we from the Left would say that we value very much the openness that the Council of State has shown today, and we hope that he will keep that tone in this debate also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1898	I would like to thank you for constructive feedback on very difficult questions. I believe that the representative, Siv Jensen, was involved in his speech; there are conflicting reasons for us. You have to ensure security, and that's the worst estimate we can think of as many of the actors we have in this case complex, actually work with. At the same time, as the representative Siv Jensen also points out, there is a need for substantial protection for individuals, so that you do not get into a situation where unjustified monitoring takes place, whether it is from our own country's authorities or other authorities. That is why I very much appreciate that all parties in Stortinget act as constructively as they do now. It also helps us, on our part at least, to do what we can to remain open about this – to be open not only about facts, but also about what kind of action we can take to ensure effective police service and effective security work while at the same time respecting the essential fundamental principles of legal certainty, especially with regard to very serious use of methods. I feel, as the representative Trine Skei Grande also describes in his statement, that, in recent years, there have been considerable efforts by different governments to tighten up control, transparency, judicial control and legal frameworks for the possibility of both interventional methodology and other methods by police and other authorities. It should only be lacking if this does not apply also to other countries' actors, and that these boundaries are equally important regardless of who will handle it. I can't see that any of the represented parties, at least here in the house, would have any interest in parking the principles that have worked for many years over the last few years. I therefore believe it is positive that the measures I proposed in the report are open to the Storting and that we are prepared to have a close dialogue with the representatives of the Stortinge and organisations on these measures. There are actually two types of axes in the case that we have to work with in the future. The first is the issue of actual — approval. Is there approved type of activity other than that which should be permitted? What kind of information has gone up? I think it is largely about information flows in both the police and the police security service that are not related to direct surveillance. But we can get back to that. It is important, and it is precisely reflected in the first action I launched, that I believe that the issue of the flow of information should be assessed. But this also depends on what the investigation had to do with the facts, as the representative Erna Solberg had to say. A lot of questions can be asked here, and maybe you should have some ice in your stomach and expect that the investigation will also produce something. For that result will have a great impact on what kind of activity has happened, and what kind of information obligation it had to trigger, among other things. to political leaders, whether in the Ministry of Justice or in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Once we have proposed it as a measure no. 1, it is primarily because we believe that when we have gone through the facts – not only since 2006, but back to 2000. But it is that there would be extraordinarily important lessons to learn from this debate even when we see the results of the investigation. I thank you again for giving me the opportunity to come to Stortinget to explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1912	This concludes the comment round on the presentation. If the assembly waits a bit, we should also conclude with how we proceed with this matter, because most of the time after such a statement, it might be attached to the protocol. The President considers this statement to be so detailed, comprehensive and interesting to all those present that we should have a more thorough discussion than that, and thus proposes to proceed in line with Section 34a(c) of the Rules of Procedure, which states that it is sent to the Committee for consideration. If there is agreement on this, which committee or, most likely, which committees will be considered in the context of subsequent reports. Can the President agree to such an examination of the matter further? – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-17.ana.ud874e1931	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
