ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e272	The formerly exempted alternate of the Hordaland County, Einar Horvei, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative, Freddy de Ruiter, on care leave from 14 June to 18 June, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the sick leave of the representative, Inbjørg Vogskesen, from 14 June to 16 June in order to take part in a maritime safety meeting at the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference in Copenhagen On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Line Vennesland and Åshild Karoline Haugland
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e309	Line Vennesland and Åshild Karoline Haugland are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e315	Having regard to the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for Monday, Tuesday and Thursday be amended so that the sitting of the morning is extended until 9.00 p.m. 5:00 p.m., and that evening's meeting is set again at 5 p.m. 6:00 p.m. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It is then deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Mette Hanekamhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e322	On behalf of the representatives Tord Lien, Bente Thorsen and myself, I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on a hospitation scheme for programme teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e327	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e330	On behalf of the major representatives of Erna Solberg, Anders B. Werp, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Sylvi Graham, Lars Myraune and myself, I have delighted to propose the conservation of the near-police model and the implementation of a wide-ranging police study. Then I have the even greater joy of presenting proposals by the big business representatives Anders B. Werp, Ingjerd Schou, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Elisabeth Aspaker, Michael Tetzschner and myself on a national strategy for increasing and improving the use of civil competences in the police. Finally, I have delighted to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Trond Helleland, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself on the police's handling of asylum cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e339	Finally, Mr Werp, the author of the motion for a resolution, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e343	On behalf of André Oktay Dahl, Jan Tore Sanner, Elisabeth Aspaker, Trond Helleland and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for better prevention, earlier and clearer response to prevent young people's recruitment to crime. Furthermore, I am delighted to present a proposal by the representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself on combating aggressive begging through reinforced police regulations, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e350	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e364	Aviation is an activity which has a significant bearing on the relationship between nations and their provisions and regulations. At times, aviation has been characterised by State restrictions and State subsidies. Therefore, it has been desirable for a long time to reach an agreement between the United States in particular and the countries of Europe. The first EU Joint Aviation Agreement was signed with the United States on 30 April 2007. The Agreement entered into force on 30 March 2008 and is the first air service agreement concluded jointly by the EU Member States. The main objective of the agreement is to liberalise aviation between the EU and the United States, inter alia: by strengthening traffic rights and by introducing provisions designed to counter distortions of competition. The Agreement will significantly strengthen the access of European enterprises to the US market and will contribute to the development of new grids within Europe and between Europe and the United States. EU air carriers will be able to launch routes to the United States from any Member State and between Member States on their way to the United States. The agreement facilitates increased cooperation of authorities on, inter alia: aviation safety and safety, competition, consumer protection and the environment and establish a Joint Committee to monitor the implementation of the Agreement and discuss matters of mutual interest. It is a prerequisite for the agreement to negotiate further deepening of cooperation, known as Phase II. Such negotiations were launched as early as May 2008. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, Norwegian undertakings are guaranteed a level playing field in the EEA territory, but not in relation to third countries, since the EEA Agreement does not include third-country cooperation. Given the importance of air transport between the United States and Europe, the link to the Agreement will be an important measure to ensure a level playing field in an important market. In order to prevent Norwegian airlines from reaching a less favourable position than their European competitors, an association agreement has been negotiated and signed which ensures Norwegian air carriers the same framework conditions as those applicable to their European competitors. The association agreement is based on the principle that the EU-US aviation agreement, with some technical adaptations, shall apply mutatis mutandis to Norway and Iceland. The Norwegian and Icelandic authorities are treated in the same way as the authorities of the EU Member States, among others. as regards participation in cooperative bodies. The association agreement requires the conclusion of an additional agreement between the EU and its Member States, Iceland and Norway to ensure that Norwegian and Icelandic authorities are fully involved in the EU’s implementation of aviation cooperation with the United States. It is a condition both from the EU and the United States that Norway and Iceland are not granted better rights through the Association Agreement than from the EU countries and that the European side continues to ‘speak with one voice’. In practice, it will mean that, as a general rule, the European Commission will speak on behalf of the European States, including Norway and Iceland, in the Joint Committee and in any dispute resolution case. At the same time, Norway and Iceland will enjoy rights similar to those of the Member States of the Union bodies responsible for preparing the meetings of the Joint Committee. The association agreement will replace Norway’s Agreement on Air Transport with the United States of America of 6 October 1945 with subsequent amendments, with the exception of those areas not covered by the definition of ‘territory’ in the Association Agreement. Thus, Svalbard will not be subject to the association agreement and the provisions of the old agreement between Norway and the United States of America will continue to apply to Svalbard. The implementation of the Association Agreement and the Additional Agreement do not necessitate legislative or regulatory changes in Norway. It will not have an administrative or economic impact on the public. The Committee stresses the importance that the aviation agreement and the supplementary agreement of 17 December 2009 between the United States, the European Union and its Member States, Iceland and Norway could have for Norwegian undertakings in view of future access to the US market. Under this agreement, Norwegian air carriers will be guaranteed the same competitive conditions as European competitors. For Norwegian interests, it is important that Norway and Iceland are fully entitled to a meeting, in line with the EU Member States of the Joint Committee, which shall consult on the implementation of the aviation agreement and settle any disputes. The Committee has also noted the importance of aviation safety and that the parties can at any time request consultations in this area. The Committee notes that the additional agreement confirms that Norway and Iceland are to participate as observers in the Phase II negotiations and that Norway and Iceland are to be included in the EU preparatory work in the same way as the EU Member States. In principle, Norway and Iceland are considered to be fully EU members in this context. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, point to the importance of the agreement providing for environmental protection in the context of the development and implementation of international aviation policy. The Progress Party, on its side, points out that the Agreement covers a number of important areas such as: user charges, prices, competition and aviation security, and a reference to Chapter 15 of the Agreement on the Environment, where it states: «The Parties recognise that the costs and benefits of environmental protection measures must be carefully weighed against each other in the development of international aviation policy.» The Committee has no other comments, and I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e399	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 2-11 is dealt with as a whole and considers it to be adopted. [[See page 4075]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e517	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e528	The safety policy is important for Norway. It is therefore nice as a representative of the big business to debut as rapporteur for four things that everyone is sure to do. The aim of security policy is to preserve Norway’s sovereignty and political freedom of action. Security policy has changed in the last 20 years. Political, economic and military resources are now being combined and directed towards the prevention and management of crises and the design of sustainable and stable solutions to conflicts. Parliamentarians around the world, including us in Stortinget, can play and play a role in security policy. It shows the annual report on the activity we are dealing with here today. The cooperation in NATO I'm going to come back to, but first a little short on important OSCE issues. The cooperation in the OSCE in 2009 shows that the organisation has once again been the forum for a broad European security dialogue. The 2010 OSCE Presidencies of Kazakhstan give increased attention to the situation in Central Asia and the Asian partners, including Afghanistan. Tolerance has also been identified as a major priority. The situation in South Kyrgyzstan is serious, alarming and demanding. OSSE announced on Saturday that a layer of mail was being sent. The UN and the EU have also confirmed to the OSCE that they are sending diplomatic representatives to Kyrgyzstan. This is positive, and I hope it can contribute to a peaceful solution to the conflict. The mission of the OSCE as a security policy actor is far from complete. Western Balkans, the Caucasus, Central Asia and countries such as Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine face challenges that can only be met through a broad effort involving both military, economic and human aspects. However, it is positive that the link between climate change, the environment and security and energy is also on the agenda. This has been promised as an important area in the OSCE region and is an area that the Kazakh Presidency wants to prioritise in 2010. The role of the OSCE in the observation of elections may be what the organisation is best known for. It is therefore necessary to clarify cooperation with the OSCE Office on Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. Today, there is disagreement as to which institution should have the final word for the design of the overall assessment of a given choice, and that cannot be the case. Eleven election observations were carried out in 2009. Norway participated in seven of them. This is important because free elections are at the heart of democracy. Norway has also long called for the OSCE to strengthen its efforts to support human rights defenders. This work should also be followed up in 2010. A year ago, the Stortinget hosted NATO PA's spring session and picked up 750 participants from NATO's member and partner countries here in Oslo. The northern areas were really on the agenda. It is gratifying to record that NATO PA has strengthened its competence in the north and Arctic security issues, including: by the appointment of a North Area Coordinator. The Parliamentary Assembly delegation of the Grand Duchy of NATO has an active commitment. The main theme in 2009 was naturally developments in Afghanistan in general and the NATO-led ISAF operation in particular. However, the work related to NATO’s new strategic concept has also been high on the agenda in 2009. Now that the Albright report has been presented and sent out for consultation and debate, it is good to note that Norway has gained an important impact on what NATO’s strategic concept should contain. It is now important to use the time well for the rest of the year to ensure that Norway’s interests are safeguarded in the final document. The same is true of the alliance's nuclear weapons, which we have been concerned about here in the United States, which we all know can only be reduced by a close dialogue between the United States, NATO and Russia. Our relationship with Russia is important. It is characterised by dialogue, how good neighbourhoods should be. It is important to discuss security policy issues with Russia, both in the OSCE and in the NATO-Russia Council. At the same time, some of the important things that have happened — and which have not least a very important and large security policy dimension — are the clarification of the dividing line in the sea between us in the north. That is where the Foreign Minister deserves praise for his work. NATO should further develop relations with partner countries. The same applies to cooperation with the EU. Nordic cooperation brings something very positive into the alliance. Norway has a force here. Our close relationship with the other Nordic countries and the development of defence cooperation in the Nordic countries are something we must continue to do. I perceive that it has been very well received by NATO as the foremost example of a deepening partnership with countries close to NATO, but for various reasons it has chosen not to apply for membership. It is important that the opportunities offered by NATO's parliamentary cooperation for enhanced contact between parliamentarians on both sides of the Atlantic are used. I want to use this opportunity today to praise the Great Britain delegation both to the OSCE and to NATO PA, which has an active commitment to national parliaments in non-member countries to support democracy and stabilisation and thereby secure our security in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e556	Before I mention case no. 7, for which I have been rapporteur, I think it is natural to talk a little about the critical situation in Kyrgyzstan, which was also the representative of Gustavsen. It's very serious, and ethnic Kyrgyzs and uncannys have now gone into violent attacks on each other. Humans are killed and injured, and thousands are on the run. The country is on the brink of a collapse, and so we are in the midst of a humanitarian disaster. Kyrgyzstan is, as already mentioned, a member of the OSCE, and we are in the situation that the neighbouring country of the north, Kazakhstan, sits with the Presidency. What is now happening is a huge challenge, for both the OSCE and its Presidency. Action is required quickly and resolutely to dampen the unrest and restore order. The Kyrgyz government has asked for Russian military assistance, but this has been rejected by Moscow. In recent years, the OSCE has been plagued with some internal unrest or uncertainty, and questions have been raised about the future and relevance of the OSCE. What's happening now in Central Asia is in many ways a test whether the OSCE powers to be relevant and to make a difference. It is tragic that it has gone as far as ethnic unrest in Kyrgyzstan has gone. After the acquisition of power in April, the country has been very unstable, and the deep division, both north and south and between ethnic groups, is not a new date. That is why it is regrettable that we have not managed to cope with the massive violence that is now taking place. Unfortunately, it is not the first time in modern history that different groups of people have been so violent and brutally disengaged, and that with the world community too often as passive witnesses. After such crises, which in some cases have been named genocide, in most cases in-depth analysis of what went wrong. Now we are in the middle of a situation where it is hopefully possible to act before the disaster gets significantly worse. In Kyrgyzstan, both Russia and the United States are present in the military. Therefore, the passivity becomes very clear. The US military presence is due to the mission in Afghanistan and the need for a transit base. This base near the capital of Bishkek has been very controversial, and former Kyrgyz governments have used the presence of the United States as a beloved source of income. A large sum of money has been paid. Unfortunately, the population has not always experienced that the money has benefited them. Discontent has arisen, and the basis for not least the latest takeover of power has arisen. In Uzbekistan, Germany has its transit base for operations in Afghanistan, and France is well located in Tajikistan. All of these central Asian states are marked by a lack of democracy and a great deal of corruption. But at least this is almost ignored from the outside, because the need for supplies to Afghanistan is so great. But it's a question of whether this is a sustainable strategy in the future. While NATO is fighting for a stable Afghanistan, neighbouring countries are destabilising. It creates not only a difficult situation for the population but also new challenges. The OSCE can play a role. Afghanistan is a partner country, and it is increasingly being directed by the OSCE in relation to Afghanistan. However, countries such as Russia are required to want the OSCE to be relevant and other countries to give priority to the work. When the representatives of the OSCE countries meet for their annual headquarters in Oslo this summer, the challenges in both Central Asia and Afghanistan will be central. We hope that our Afghan colleagues too will come. The Oslo meeting will be a good opportunity to discuss the future and justification of the OSCE. Unfortunately, the challenges of security, democracy and human rights within the OSCE's borders are such that we cannot say that the job is done. We need such a regional organisation, addressing fundamental challenges related to these themes. All OSCE members have signed on a set of commitments. These are obligations for which they must be held responsible. Hopefully, the Oslo meeting will also be a step towards the establishment of the internal conflict in the OSCE, linked to electoral observations. Election observation is a core task for the OSCE and an important way of making Member States responsible. Norway also received good input from the OSCE's presence at the fallout last autumn. But there are countries that may need even more help than Norway. It is important that the OSCE should be seen as a unified organisation with common objectives. Unfortunately, this has not always been a reality in recent years. Therefore, it is necessary to take action internally. There is reason for cautious optimism, and I believe that the parliamentary organisation will take its part in the task of cleaning up. But the immediate challenge now, which is on the table of all the governments of the OSCE, is to stop the violence in southern Kyrgyzstan, to start repairing the damage and restoring stability and to set in motion a process that gives the population reason to rely on their own government. This is demanding, and there is unfortunately little tradition in many of the Central Asian countries to have governments that put the people's interests first. That is exactly why we should think about all our actions with these countries, and act in a way that not only meets short-term needs but can also promote long-term interests, not least values such as democracy and human rights. I have been the rapporteur on the matter concerning the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee. As far as the Committee of EEA Members is concerned, it is, in my view, our main means of binding the European Parliament, and the role of the European Parliament is becoming increasingly important. I am therefore very pleased that the Norwegian delegation is constantly looking at new ways of involving several members of the Stortinget, several committees on the Stortinget, in the work in relation to the European Parliament. I do not believe that the work done there can be underestimated – nor the importance of finding appropriate contact points with the European Parliament that allow us to make the earliest possible representations in processes that affect Storting’s work and Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e577	I very much agree with the comments made by the representatives Laila Gustavsen and Morten Höglund – and to a very large extent with the additional comments made by the representative Höglund on today's situation in Kyrgyzstan. He made it clear that the world community has in many ways set its sights on this matter. It illustrates that there are differences, depending on where on the globe a conflict takes place, in getting the other world's attention. The positions of today's debate by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy clearly demonstrate broad political agreement in the Storting and the involvement of the parliamentary work in Norway is essential. It also illustrates in many ways the new role of a new committee, where defence and foreign affairs have been merged. The old boundaries that existed in connection with the sharing of matters no longer exist. Defence and security policies have in many ways now become the core of Norway’s participation in foreign policy work. The attitudes also give us a clear picture that Norway is still on a happy edge in Europe, while showing significant security challenges in the world, and a changing Europe. As I said, the settings carry a broad consensus in Stortinget on our participation. Norway – with very active participation from our delegation to the Council of Europe – succeeded in having Thorbjørn Jagland elected as the new Secretary-General of the Council, and we are all pleased about that. The work on renewal and simplification now being undertaken by Jagland has proved necessary, and I think we all hope that Jagland will succeed in his Secretary-General's job. But Ichland gets a lot to hang his fingers in. For example, we see that the European Court of Human Rights is in a situation where the number of complaints accumulates. There is an increasing number of complaints against violations of general civil rights in Europe. The European Court of Human Rights today has some 119 000 pending cases, many of them from central and eastern European countries, including Russia, in addition to the areas of South Caucasus. From the Norwegian side, it is – and has been – important to contribute to ensuring efficiency, capacity and progress in the work of the Court of Justice. NATO has been a guarantor of peace and stability in Europe. Many will be able to conclude that the alliance we are a member of, won the cold war – a time epoch that fortunately is over. Today, it is not the classic historical East–West separation – and the conflicts – that primarily engages in the day-to-day activities of the alliance. The approach to cooperation in NATO fully indicates that NATO is the carrier of Norwegian foreign and security policy. NATO has become the most central transatlantic forum for consultations on security policy issues, including for Norway. At the same time, the setting provides an image of an alliance with great tasks and challenges. Soon ten years in place in Afghanistan is naturally challenging, in particular human and financial, for the alliance. This year, the Alliance will adopt, as others have also been involved, a new strategic concept, how many countries, including Norway, have expressed the desire for a more visible NATO also in our neighbourhoods. We have seen that the relationship between NATO and Russia has improved in the period. However, the fight against terrorism – the threat of terrorism – and the fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons remain of concern to most parliamentarians in the House. As is known in 2009, in addition to participation in Afghanistan, Norway has participated with a frigate in an EU operation against piracy outside Somalia. Participation only gives positive feedback on the efforts made by Norway. The talk that Laila Gustavsen gave of the image of parliamentary participation in NATO cooperation, I fully agree, and not least it is interesting – even from my own experience – to register the good dialogue NATO and Russian parliamentarians currently have. So a few words about the Western Union. Everything suggests that it is going to the end of the Western Union Parliamentary Assembly. It no longer seems that there is a desire to keep the institution. The permanent members of the Western Union no longer have the will to finance an operation that is considered to be too expensive. Opinions from Europe in this context suggest that any new regime must be considerably cheaper than current operations. The Secretariat of the Western Union will be wound up and the offices in Paris will be abandoned. Today it may seem that the discussion in Europe is more focused on the willingness or desire to develop alternative institutions for the Western Union at parliamentary level. Several have pointed to the COSAC model, but the issue seems equally to be about the economy and costs of further cooperation. Several also point out that the Western Union no longer has sufficient legitimacy, as the Western Union consists of only ten of the 27 EU Member States as direct members. However, the position in Europe seems to be open to some kind of continuation of the work of parliamentary cooperation and discussions on EU foreign and security policy, but it is clearly pointed out that a new regime must be in line with the Treaty of Lisbon. It is also here that COSAC cooperation appears in Protocol 1 to the Treaty of Lisbon. No EU country appears to be opposed to the involvement of the associated members of the Western Union of PAs in some way in a new cooperation, so-called adapted solution, to which Germany points, or an informal follow-up mechanism, as the French say, which could also include Norwegian depositors. As a NATO member and contributor to EU crisis management operations, it should be natural and of mutual interest for Norway to have an active parliamentary link to the security and defence debate in Europe. The European Parliament sees the need for a strengthened dialogue on security and defence policy issues, without concluding on how to organise such cooperation. This will be a likely issue in the context of the discussion on the EU’s new foreign service. COSAC, which is also an association of the European Committees of the EU countries and the national parliaments of the candidate countries, meets around two times a half-year. The European institutions – the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament – are invited to the meetings and, in some cases, some countries, including Norway and Iceland, are invited. The objective of COSAC is primarily to contribute to increased transparency and control of the EU by national parliaments. As mentioned above, there is now an active debate in the EU on how to organise the parliamentary participation of the defence and security debate. For Norway, it must, in the opinion of the Right, be essential that we strive for as close a relationship as possible to the bodies responsible for parliamentary control of the EU's defence and security policy. The Committee has prepared the basis for this by working for permanent participation in both COFAC and COSAC, but also in other contexts. Indeed, as you know, the size strengthens contact with the European Parliament, which should also allow us to intervene with EU policies. It is therefore urgent to put this representation in place in Brussels. Perhaps the presidency should put on the agenda the question of the need to strengthen parliamentary participation in the defence and security debate in Europe and how it can be developed. It is ultimately about being able to care for our interests in these areas, combined with the Storting's wish for more active participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e600	I'm not the first energy politician who's been wandering into the foreign field in the last month, and I've been thinking, naturally, to talk most about the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Current issues related to the OSCE are not lacking – the current situation in Kyrgyzstan is a reminder of the need for good international structures and cooperation that can contribute to stability, security and democratic development. The latest reports from the NRC this morning report 117 people killed and almost 1,500 injured as a result of riots and violence, and as many as 100,000 people can be on the run. Then my thoughts go easily to similar situations that are not so far back in time, in the European area. We know from experience that international cooperation and patient trust building and development of well-functioning democratic institutions with close international follow-up and cooperation are essential for creating safe and stable societies. In this field, the OSCE has played a central role since the establishment of the organisation, and in this context the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, the OSCE PA, has also played an important role. The Assembly counts 320 Members from 55 parliaments and is therefore a significant venue for debate, cooperation and dissociation between parliamentarians in the Euro-Atlantic region. The potential for conflict prevention and democracy-building in such cooperation cannot be overestimated – I think everyone can agree on that. Therefore, it is also very important that Norwegian parliamentarians are active in this work. Like many other international associations, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly does not lack tasks or challenges in the coming period. The election observation work carried out by parliamentarians from the Member States on behalf of the OSCE PA and in cooperation with the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, ODIHR, is very important for the legitimacy of elections conducted in the OSCE area. In-depth observation of elections in Ukraine during the elections in January, and the subsequent evaluation of the OSCE system, contributed, for example: to take much of the air out of the speculations that preceded the international press about a choice that would be marked by fraud and irregularities. It became what didn't know. The parliamentary assembly has a very practical and positive and tangible role to play here. Similarly, the Parliamentary Assembly is discussing issues in line with the OSCE's priority tasks, including the fight against international crime, trafficking in human beings and corruption. This theme forms the framework for the OSCE PA's main session, for which we are hosting here this year in Oslo. The delegation looks very forward to the meeting and expects a main session of great activity, which we see in the uphill activity of the different delegations this week before the meeting. I have to add that the delegation also hopes for a weather that shows Oslo from its best side, after those who signed the winter meeting in Vienna went a long way in promising the Parliamentary Assembly the blue sky and the paradisaic weather conditions in Oslo for the duration of the meeting. I might, like other politicians, take water over my head. It's worth noting one thing that requires more work in the future. It may seem small, but it is important, and it is the continuing problems of cooperation between the ODIHR and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. We need to focus on clarifying these in the time to come. Now I'm not going to exaggerate these challenges, but it's a very small constructive conflict that unfolds between the two organisations, of a lighter territorial nature – more specifically who has the last word in terms of design and evaluation of choices. Then I could have been tempted to point out ironic that an organization of the character of the OSCE and with the purpose of the OSCE has such challenges internally, but it is probably a reminder of the importance of conflict prevention work on all fronts. I feel confident in any case that this is a conflict it must be possible to resolve, and I think the Norwegian delegation can contribute in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e615	I think the best thing I can do about the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is to repeat the old church prayer about 'good and decent weather', so perhaps the representative Serigstad Valen gets what he wants! The positions on Norway's participation in the UN General Assembly, the OSCE, NATO and the Council of Europe have focused on the participation of the Norwegian State in international, international cooperation. At the same time, annual reports on our participation in parliamentary cooperation forums related to NATO, the Western European Union, the Council of Europe, EFTA and the Interparliamentary Union, IPU are being examined. The delegations of the Grand Duchy to parliamentary cooperation forums do not express a similar exercise of authority but contribute to the mutual exchange of information, experience and development of important parliamentary contact networks. It strikes me that the Storting could have benefited from discussing the work of these delegations from a slightly more focused perspective than these historical reports. For my part, I want to take the initiative to give us a review of the way in which we deal with these kinds of issues, because I think – and that is also my personal experience – that the Delegates of the Storting could do more if we had a little more programmatic approach to the work of the different forums in advance. I think that would also raise the level of effort that we are doing. At the same time, I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has initiated a better interaction between the delegations from the Stortinget and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that can also contribute to a stronger targeting of this work, because this is an important work. What is developed by contacts and relationships is useful to Norway in different crossroads. I would like to mention as a concrete example the meeting of the President-in-Office of the Council of Russia recently during the state visit, which also meant the breakthrough of a more than 30-year process with Russia regarding the Barents Sea divider line. During this meeting, Parliamentary cooperation and its importance for the development of – in this context – bilateral relations between Norway and Russia were just mentioned. I think it was a mutual experience that made it a topic. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we attach great importance to the role that Norway must play in the global cooperation that the United Nations represents. I am therefore delighted that the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously stresses that the UN is still the most important arena in the world community to find common solutions to the challenges we face. Just because the UN has such a unique role, the UN needs to be reformed to make the World Organisation even better and more effective as a cooperative body. The majority of the Committee, in which the Christian People's Party is involved, acknowledges that the UN is still characterised by a great deal of fragmentation and inefficient bureaucracy. This acts as brake blocks for needed changes in the organisation. The reasons for this are many, both the priorities of the Member States and the inability to adapt internally. This is well known from decades of work on UN reform. Therefore, it amazes me that the government parties in this setting do not openly acknowledge it. However, I am pleased that a unanimous committee considers reform of the UN to be important. Norway may also make important contributions in regional organisations, cooperation organisations such as the OSCE, the Council of Europe and EFTA. In connection with the OSCE's possibilities, the representative Morten Højlund had an interesting and in-depth analysis of the current situation in Kyrgyzstan, where at least 117 were killed in the last three days in the region, in and around the city of Osh, with many tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of people fleeing. I think this is an appropriate opportunity to commend the representative, Mr Höglund, for the long-standing, insightful and strong commitment he has shown to this region in general and the conflicts that characterise this region, in particular. I think that the involvement of the representative, Mr Høglund, is an example of the value it has of the involvement of parliamentarians in regional organisations such as the OSCE, and through it is gaining insight into the involvement of special conflict areas and regions, as the representative, Mr Höglund, has done in many areas, but in particular in this area. In the public debate, many would draw a little on the shoulders of parliamentarians in foreign policy. I think we're dealing with an example that shows that it matters. In today's debate, Morten Höglund has shown that his insight is well into the assessment of the very acute situation that is now in this area. Like the representative, Mr Höglund, I hope that the OSCE and the present major powers can play a crucial role in averting the disaster that may be under way in this country and in this region. I am keen to hear the Foreign Minister’s assessment of the possibilities Norway has for contributing in this context. The Council of Europe, together with the OSCE, is an important tool for human rights and democratisation in our part of the world. The challenges are greatest in areas with a heavy legacy from Eastern European communism. Several of the countries in question have to undergo demanding transformations before the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights are respected in practice. I would like to highlight in particular the role of the OSCE in the political-military field of arms control, democratic control of security forces, reforms in the justice sector, the fight against organised crime and international cooperation against terrorism. Very happy is the fact that we now, finally, have had a new movement in the nuclear disarmament work. The conclusion of a new START agreement shows that the relationship between Russia and the United States is improving. President Obama has begun to deliver some of what is expected of him who wins the Nobel Peace Prize. But much remains, and the Christian People's Party believes Norway must be a driving force in the work of nuclear disarmament and to prevent the further spread of nuclear weapons, for example. to countries such as Iran. The challenges in Afghanistan are so great that they require a more in-depth discussion than the present NATO cooperation notification in 2009. This has been a regular occasion for Storting to make presentations on Afghanistan's policy. Such presentations will be needed in the future as well. Some of the most required adaptations are now being implemented in the Afghanistan strategy. Key words are the deghanisation of responsibility for security and stability and greater emphasis on the need for civil reconstruction and development, including: the practical operationalisation of the Afghanisation. However, we are facing so demanding challenges that the Stortinget will certainly have many new opportunities to explore this important policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e634	I will first praise the committee for organizing the debate in the way that has happened here. I think it gives the opportunity to see different disciplines in context in a way that's interesting. Then I would just like to join very simply in stressing the role of parliamentarians in much of this work, which works in very tandem with the foreign policy of the rest. I think the idea of having closer contact between the parliamentary groups of the various bodies and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a good idea. I find the representative's proposal for a programmatic approach exciting. Especially in areas where we can see that there is a very broad common perception between big business and government, I think we are served, as we have done in some areas of this period and in the previous period, to put aside disagreements in other areas and work as much as possible. It is clear that Norway outside the EU has some key arenas where we do not have full access, and then we have to work effectively where we have access. So I take up that invitation, and I thank you for the nice words about the meetings we had with the parliamentarians from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We want to continue and have an open conversation about how it can be done better. With regard to the Arctic, we now see quite clear signs that Norway is setting an agenda. Today we have the French Prime Minister in the city with a great delegation. There were 100 Frenchmen on Snow White yesterday, and they come with an impression of what's going on in the Arctic, in a completely different way than the country's ever been interested in. This is due, inter alia, to: French people pick up a comprehensive Norwegian presentation of Arctic conditions in different organs. That's positive, that's the way we have to work. I would also like to join the representative of Høybräten in mentioning Morten Højlund's work on central Asian matters. We in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs value the feedback Höglund has given from many of his travels and assessments. I fully agree with the analysis, and this shows the room it provides to deal with such issues in the parliamentary field. Then I found the analysis to Høglund about Kyrgyzstan interesting for several reasons. I agree with the assessment he gives of how dangerous this is. It's interesting to see how daring and hesitant Russia is in this situation in an area that was once part of the empire, and now to those degrees is part of the neighbourhoods, but where you also have many historical experiences of how dangerous it is to go directly in. But what stuck to my interest in Høglund's contributions about this, if I can say so, is that he goes into a very good analysis – I believe – of why it is important for an organisation that has a broad membership, that you live with a diversity of members, and where some members fall far below the standard of what the organisation has set itself as standard, while other members are concerned that the standards on the value side should also be respected. What do you do in such a situation? Well, you get involved, you try to use the instruments that the OSCE has, that the Council of Europe has, hold them responsible, and draw them away. What you don't do is push them out. And what you don't do is you turn your back on them and say you don't want anything to do with them. I mean to see an interesting transition to the UN here, where we often get a discussion in this room about whether we can sit in the UN Human Rights Council, when it sits there. Can we participate in that area of the UN when there are countries that fall far below the standards? In both cases, I believe that the answer is yes, because when you want to organise regional cooperation, you have to – in my opinion – have everyone in the region. And then those who fall below the standards will tolerate being hammered or encouraged to change the course they have. That is the approach I think the representative, Mr Höglund, is very wise in this respect with regard to the countries of Central Asia. We now have an embassy in Kazakhstan, which is our main listener in there, and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are now awaiting the assessment that the Astana Embassy will give us. I believe Norway's response to the challenge in Kyrgyzstan is going through the OSCE very much. It's the OSCE that's an actor that can do something there, and then you could say that the OSCE is weak in many contexts, but that's what we have. We also have the OSCE's responsibility for minorities, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk, who play an important role in this context. Then, of course, we should also consider the humanitarian needs that arise, and in a normal Norwegian way stand still in relation to them. I would also like to say, since we now mark annual reports, that Norway has made a strong mark in the Council of Europe. I've been able to observe that. We've also worked closely here between big business and government. We have contributed to the election of Thorbjørn Jagland, not least because the candidate made a very persevering election campaign. It was not an easy thing to win that game, but it did both him and we. We now note that Ichland has launched a comprehensive reform programme that has been well received, but he knows just as well as we do that the challenge lies in the follow-up, and perhaps is one of the greatest challenges he faces on the absolute path of home in the Council of Europe itself, with employees and a number of implemented ways of working on which it is demanding to do. The ministerial meeting in May highlighted the importance of the Council of Europe, the importance of the Council of Europe with its broad membership, and the importance of the rule of law and human rights in Europe. Norway will support the reform efforts, making the Court of Human Rights more effective, in an active way. In terms of NATO, I'm not going to say any more here. When the strategic concept is to be finalised, close contact will be necessary with the bodies of the Storting, but also here in the open hall, to discuss Norway’s positions ahead of the NATO summit. As far as the Arctic Council is concerned, it is interesting to note that due to the work of parliamentarians – partly because of it, but partly because of the whole geopolitical importance – there is a great deal of interest in what is happening in that body. At the Parliamentary meeting last week, both the Danish Presidency and its Foreign Minister and I were present. I don't think it's been like that before, and it's because the organization is meeting with much more interest. Finally, around all of these organisations, there is now a backdrop that I think is very serious, and which borders on something that can be very dramatic, and it is the economic crisis that hits Europe, which Europe is now going to respond to, and which they respond to at a slightly different rate. Tomorrow, the Luxembourg Prime Minister comes to Norway to attend the European Conference to discuss the future of Europe. He is the longest-seated prime minister in the European Union, and he is the head of euro-cooperation. Today, as I said, the Prime Minister of France in Oslo, and the analyses he and his follow-up to the challenges Europe is now facing, are first of all very interesting, but also make it clear that we are entering a very turbulent time in Europe. As a result of what is happening to the economies of the European countries, the will to finance a great deal of international cooperation, both in Europe and beyond, is being put to a tough test. I could experience in Geneva a few weeks ago that the WHO, the High Commissioner for Refugees and several others are now beginning to notice this, that it will be cut in the budgets to finance their activities. Often budget cuts are an important incentive to improve operations, but if we had taken all that effect out, it is still serious. This afternoon I'm going to meet the new head of UNICEF, Anthony Lake, and he's facing a very serious resource situation for UNICEF's operations around the world. Norway is one of the leading donors of UNICEF – 1.3 billion. kr of the year – and we are a key player in relation to that organisation. But I think we can agree that in the relationship with children and the protection of civilians, UNICEF plays an important role, and it's serious how it's going to develop. At the top of it all, there is one report we do not have to deal with here today, and it is a report that I believe few parliaments have, namely the G20's last year's report. Here I have to say that we are facing an important process that we must follow closely. We can discuss the relevance of the United Nations and its work areas, but we have a G20, which is a self-appointed group without institutions or institutions, and which is gaining decision-making power and responsibility in ever-new areas. We have applauded from Norway that the G20 took hold in the autumn of 2008 and helped to avert the crisis that could then have occurred. But the G20 today is in a phase of reflection on its role. The French Presidency will go extensively into the entire international economic governance architecture, etc. The interesting thing is that if the discussions in the G20 are to become premiscuous not only for finance, but also for climate and trade and in key areas of development – well, this picture changes for Norway, because then we come up with a situation where we are among the most important financial contributors to very important work and the premises are put in a place where we have nothing to say or not to participate. I say this clearly to colleagues, that such a situation can be very difficult to deal with in the long term. It was a term in the old American freedom struggle called ‘no taxation without representation’—that is, paying without participation—it was a demanding piece of time. These are debates I think we are facing. Economic development in Europe – when things go wrong with the economy, the currency, etc., it gets an estimate of the policy, and I think that there will be a new impetus in the international organisation of cooperation that will impact on the work of all these organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e670	It's going to be line change, limited to up to six lines. The President reminds us that it will be possible to ask for two lines. The representative, Mr Höglund, has done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e675	I see the parallel that the Foreign Minister draws between the OSCE and the UN Human Rights Council. Now, different organisations have a slightly different approach. The Council of Europe, for example, has chosen to keep Belarus at an arm’s length precisely because they do not fulfil their obligations. I think it's possible to have a slightly different approach, a little bit depending on which organization, but I understand the point. The Helsinki Final Declaration in 1975 provides the basis for the existence of the OSCE. It's 35 years old. Many of the countries that are now present did not exist as independent states at that time. The relevance of the OSCE has been discussed. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that, in the future, the OSCE can be a relevant organisation? It has very few means of power, and it's challenged. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is right to force that organisation to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e684	Many of the UN members today were not in 1945 either, when the organization was started. But end of that parentheses. I believe that the OSCE has value precisely because of the representative, Mr Höglund, who points out that it takes with it the legacy of Helsinki, which is equivalent to the soft and hard security and has a whole set of civil, political, economic, but also disarmament and some of these harsh security areas. The fact that an organisation does not have a tendency in what it does and takes hold of, there are many organisations that have to live with. The International Labour Organisation (ILO), for example, has few sanctions, but is important on the norms side. I believe that an organization that connects Canada and the United States, large parts of Europe and far into Central Asia, is important. But it's clear that it depends on how you develop the processes. I believe that the Russian proposals for change that have been presented have been very much on the way down by the other members of the OSCE. It's because they're holding on to what's the 1975 legacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e694	Switches to another theme. The Minister of Foreign Affairs took up the Arctic himself. I had a meeting in the European Parliament last week, including: Vice-President Diana Wallis, and she – and several others – was concerned about the EU’s ability to become a permanent observer in the Arctic Council. It was a challenge, I understood, to the Arctic states that if you didn't get this observatory, you had to look for other ways to organize your Arctic engagement. Some degree of impatience – does the Foreign Minister understand that impatience, and can the Foreign Minister give any indication that the European Parliament and the EU's wish to three closer to the Arctic Council will be fulfilled in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e699	As the representative, Mr Højlund, heard from both the Danish and Norwegian Foreign Minister last week, we are in favour of having the European Union join us in order to ensure that we have the European Union. But who are we talking about? Today, in meeting the French Minister for Europe, he was very clear that it should not be the Commission, but the Council. When you go to Parliament, you are told that it should be Parliament and not the Council. When you're in the Commission, you're told that it should be the Commission. Well, I'm going to leave that to the European Union. I have understood this until now that it is the European Commission that wants observership. Norway is for the Arctic Council to be the Council to be consulted on Arctic matters. There must be a difference between observers and permanent members, I agree, but it says something about an organisation that lived in an obscure life for many years, that the biggest challenge today is to deal with a reasonable reception of stakeholders from China and South Korea to Europe. Norway is for that. If Europe is to choose to organise something else with regard to the Arctic, they are welcome to do so, but I think it is in Europe's interest to seek cooperation with the coastal states and the eight that constitute the Arctic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e708	The European Court of Human Rights has, as you know, a significant number of pending cases. Nearly 120 000 pending cases are on the table of the Court of Justice, and an increased number of these cases come from the new Member States of Eastern Europe. The Nordic Council has been fighting for years to establish an information office in Minsk. The initiative was taken by the representative Dagfinn Højbräten, who worked intensively on the matter for several years via the Nordic channels. The success of such an important establishment requires the warm participation and support of the Norwegian Government. There have been different opinions as to whether it has been good enough so far. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs help ensure that the Nordic countries succeed in setting up an information office in Minsk?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e715	As the representative Højbrätten knows, I have listened carefully to his assessment of this. I have also noticed that the Nordic Council has wanted such an office, but, as the Nordic Minister for Cooperation has informed us, there is in no way a consensus on this among the Nordic governments. Norway has had a waiting and open attitude to this, but we have also stressed that we need to be quite consistent with the Minsk regime. In view of the fact that we were going to conduct very different policies towards a regime that shows so many shortcomings and that should get clear signals on what is going on for the country to accede to international organisations, we are committed to contributing to consensus. That consensus is not possible to observe today. On the contrary, there is very strong opposition among some Nordic governments to the establishment of such an office. We will continue the dialogue with parliamentarians, evaluate the situation in Belarus and assess other ways we can be available – from a Nordic point of view – to what may be of democratic opposition in Belarus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e724	The situation in Kyrgyzstan is serious. The analyses obtained during the debate are quite eloquent for the current situation. The OSCE is a natural channel for involvement in the matter, but my question is what Norway has in concrete terms intended to do to engage, both humanitarianly and politically. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was a little bit involved in his speech, but it would have been interesting to hear something more about the way Norway is now going to engage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e731	Let me go back to what I said. Firstly, with regard to the humanitarian situation, we will assess whether Norway has capacities or whether it comes from the key emergency actors that Norway can support. This is something we will assess in the hours and days to come, in close consultation with countries with which we normally work together on this type of topic. As far as political developments are concerned, the OSCE Presidency, which is Kazakhstan, has special assumptions. The President of Kazakhstan is busy getting to a summit in the OSCE during his presidential term. This is a great challenge for him. We want to look to the President and the other leadership in Kazakhstan as to how they want to take the weight of the OSCE Presidency into this conflict, which is very incomprehensible. It's not anyone given to get in and out, set up or get peace solutions. It's through the OSCE's central agencies, like the Presidency and other parts of the OSCE machinery, we're going to approach ourselves when we're going to support hopeful peaceful development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e742	The Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed support for the idea of a more programmed approach to the work of Parliamentary delegations. I look forward to an interaction between Stortinget and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the organisation of such work. What I want to address in this reply is related to the foreign minister's reply to the reply of the representative Ivar Kristiansen, about the work of the Nordic countries vis-à-vis the regime in Belarus. An initiative has been initiated by a Nordic Information Office, which has broad support here in Stortinget and in the Nordic Council. It has full support from the opposition in Belarus, who sees this as worthy of their work. When the proposal was being consulted by the foreign ministries of the Nordic countries, there were no foreign ministries expressing opposition to this. This means that there must have been political opposition at some level in some country. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Norway will continue to work towards achieving this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e751	As the representative knows, it is the Minister for Cooperation who is at the forefront and discusses these matters with his colleagues. It is the ministers who represent the Council of Ministers who assess this kind of bet. My assessment, based on my view of the matter, is that Norway is one of the countries that have had a more open attitude to this, certainly characterized by the fact that many of the perpetrators have had their basis from Norway, and that we have discussions about it in the Stortinget. What the Minister of Cooperation says to me, and as I also hear from my contacts, is that there is strong scepticism in the governments of the other Nordic countries. This applies in particular to EU members of the Nordic family. But that doesn't mean we can't keep up the conversation about this, the conversation about how best to be present for the opposition in Belarus. There is also a rather different perception of what this has to say for the opposition, how the opposition could be exposed – I now repeat other assessments – because of such an office in Minsk. We would like to discuss the matter further, but note that today there is no agreement among the governments of the Nordic countries to set up such an office.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e763	I take the floor because the annual report from the EFTA Parliamentary Committee gives an opportunity to say a little about a topic that is rarely mentioned here in the Chamber, namely trade policy. After 50 years, we have few members left in EFTA, but it is still an important organisation for Norway. EFTA is involved and ensures Norwegian business better market access in many and growing markets. There are two issues now on the agenda, as well as negotiations on free trade agreements with Ukraine, Russia, Algeria, Hong Kong, China and India. One is how we can incorporate environmental requirements and requirements for decent working conditions into free trade agreements. The second is the future of EFTA. A report on environmental standards and employee relations will be presented at the meeting in Iceland. The report should provide the basis for a wide-ranging debate on these important issues. Free trade is important for economic growth, perhaps especially in the current situation, but we must be able to combine free trade and economic growth with environmental considerations and decent conditions for workers, including in poor countries. We need to find ways for this that don't function as trade barriers, as the countries we negotiate with see it. It'll be an important task in the future. The future of EFTA is on the agenda due to Iceland’s application for EU membership and the interest of Faroe Islands in EFTA membership. But it's probably going to go both one and two winters before this is resolved. In the meantime, we need to ensure that EFTA does its job, for the benefit of the industry in the Member States. The other task of this Committee is to ensure the proper functioning of the EEA Agreement. Here, the challenges are linked to the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon is now governing the EU. It makes it more difficult to know which issues are covered by the EEA and Schengen Agreements and which are outside. And it gives the European Parliament greater influence. In the Joint Parliamentary Committee between the European Parliament and the EFTA, we must continue to note that the involvement of the Members of the European Parliament could be greater, to put it diplomatically. In return, we have now seen that the Single Market Committee in the European Parliament has carried out an assessment of the impact of the EEA Agreement and the Agreement with Switzerland on the functioning of the internal market. As regards the EEA Agreement, the Committee questions whether it should be adjusted in the light of developments since its conclusion 15 years ago, inter alia. as regards the new and greater influence of the European Parliament in the decision-making process. In recent months, Norway has been invited to interparliamentary consultations in the European Parliament – one in the context of the assessment of the EEA Agreement by the Internal Market Committee and the other in the implementation of the Services Directive. The fact that we participate on the part of Stortinget is noticed – and we get the floor. I think one of the most important things we can do is to use these channels for contacts with our colleagues in the European Parliament. Here the official now in Brussels will be important to follow up on current opportunities and to assist with agreements and contacts. I expect this office to be in place when the harvest session takes place, and I also refer you to the representative Ivar Kristiansen said about this. The rapporteur, Mr Höglund, pointed out that the EFTA Parliamentary Committee is our main link to the European Parliament. It is the only formal link with the European Parliament, and that is why it is of course important. But I also think that a very important channel will be that we have contact with our respective party groups. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have worked against the S&D Group in terms of the Directive and consumer rights and experience that the Party Channel is useful and important to the Committee in dealing with concrete issues. It will always be possible to discuss the usefulness of parliamentary cooperation. Several have been involved and stressed that it is useful. I just want to quote a Swedish colleague who attended the COSAC meeting in Madrid, who said it this simple way: it is useful for me to hear colleagues in other countries assess the current situation. Also on that level, it's useful -- it gives insight and perspectives. I agree with the representative, Mr Højbräten, that we should have a greater share of experience between the various parliamentary assemblies, but also towards the Stortinget as a whole. I am pleased that so many from the parliamentary committee are taking part in this debate. Finally, I meant to hear that the representative Højbråten called for the concerns of the government parties about the reform work in the UN. It is clearly expressed in a joint comitology note. I would also like to show that both Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland have been actively involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e795	I think I'm going to start somewhere other than many of those that started before me, have done. I will give tribute to the members of the Committee for the way in which they have decided to organise the debate – which I think is exciting and which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also commented on. Because I think – like the other speakers – that we can well discuss the issues we have today as individual issues, but the most important thing is to see the whole, the relationship between them, because they are the ones who sort of make it clear where Norwegian policy is here and what we want with Norwegian policy. That's why I think it's important that we manage to lift ourselves and see this together. Of course, the focus is on international cooperation, be it against the UN system, against the WEU, against NATO PA and others that are important organisations for Norway in order to achieve our objectives. In this way I think the representative Højbrätten had a good point. For some of what we should do through this type of debate, focus on the goals we have set ourselves – the Norwegian objectives: to participate by using the UN apparatus, by being members of NATO PA, by participating in the WEU, etc. That's because we have a plan and a desire to achieve something. In any case, I assume that when we have this type of report for treatment, we have to ask ourselves, when we do our goals? By participating, do we get the effect that we want? If not, we need to assess membership, as has been done more than once in the case of one of the organisations. If we want to be maintained, we need to assess the strategy we use to get where we want to come with our policies, and the things that are important to Norway. Another thing that I think is important is that this kind of debate also helps to make it clear that the Storting is active in foreign policy. Although the U.D. and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have the main task – they have daily responsibilities and are in the driving seat in this way – there is no doubt that the Stortinget should be involved in giving a mandate. That is why this debate is important; it legitimises the work done outside. I also fully share the points that have been underlined, that some major representatives – parliamentarians – can actually make a difference, a significant difference. But ultimately, it's about an engagement, a personal commitment in individual matters, individual classifications, or some nations, that you want to contribute to. And we are in the unique position that we have an economic foundation that others envy us. The Secretary of State was in the midst of the economic crisis facing the world. There is Norway in a unique situation; we have a completely different starting point than many others. That also means that we can afford to be generous in terms of financial contributions, if we achieve the goals we have set ourselves, and if we are sure that they are used properly. I know that a lot of people in this room are busy using the UN as a tool, because maybe the UN is the best you have. But then I also think you have to be so honest and take on the fact that the UN is almost flawless. There are reports to clarify the United Nations deficiencies. If we don't dare point them out, are we good members of the UN? Isn't it true that the best friendships you have are those that you dare to be honest with, that you dare to tell me about the things that are good, but that you have to be equally clear about telling me if you're not so happy with them? It has never been any particularly good success to raise good money after bad money. So briefly about NATO in relation to our security. Norway is an important partner, and NATO is important to us in NATO cooperation. No matter how we turn around and turn around, we depend on having a good relationship with our big neighbours in the east, a relationship that I hope we can build on and strengthen in the time to come. But it's clear, at a time when the northern regions become more important and more important, we need to focus on this. In a time when energy and energy consumption are becoming more and more important for Europe and the rest of the world, it is clear that Norway is a major act, and we are a factor that needs to be taken into account. That's why it's important that we play our cards in a good and sensible way, that we are clear on our policies in terms of cooperation with other countries, that we are clear on cooperation with NATO, VEU, IPU and others because it's also a fact that if you have good partners in the different organisations, it's easier to find solutions. If you care for membership in a good and sensible way in the organisations we choose to be in, it's harder to find conflict situations there. Only that, in my opinion, is a good reason to continue international cooperation, assuming that one dares to ask questions about the quality of it and the achievement of the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e815	As many have said in the debate today, I also very much appreciate the fact that the Committee has put these matters together, because there is so much interference between different elements of our parliamentary participation in international organisations. It is also underlined, and I would like to support it, that there is broad agreement in this Chamber on the policy we are pursuing in the field of foreign affairs. It was Snorre Serigstad Valen who said that in Oslo we have “paradise-like” states – he referred to being then, but I would also say it almost symbolic that we have paradise-like states not only in Oslo, but in Norway when we start looking at some of the conflicts that are moving around the world now and that are somewhat affected here. Nevertheless – I would like to see more representatives in the hall when we discussed such important matters. The ‘paradistinguishing states’ may be an element here; there is no problem, so there is no reason to engage much. It's a little uncomfortable if we end up with it. Morten Höglund took up a very important matter, and that is the state of the central Asian countries today. It has probably not occurred today — there has probably been a latent situation that has now broken out in these countries. I'm afraid we have to live with the fact that we're going to be worried for quite a long time in many of these countries. I should be surprised if that was not what Gorbachev came when he introduced perestroika and glasnost; he saw that the conflict of Russia had not turned against NATO, against Western Europe. The conflict was facing south, in the long term. Therefore he was dependent on achieving peace between the old enemies. Everyone will be happy that he started it in his own time. It has now been said that the OSCE is important in what is happening in Central Asian countries. I fully support that. It has been stressed that the OSCE does not have any sanctions. That's right, that's right, and I should like to see the United Nations get involved to a much greater extent in this area. The summit took up the reform work in the United Nations. I will support that very strongly, there is a great need to get a not so little, but quite big, reform work going on in the United Nations. The UN has a huge number of employees and is a large organization. When we talked about the Norwegian Defense a few years ago, we said that there was a colossus on the camp feet. That might also be how the United Nations has become. There is a real need for reform there. The representative of Kristiansen said that it was important that we strengthen parliamentary participation in these organisations, and I strongly support that. We are not many people in this country in relation to many other countries around the world, and we are not in many arenas, either. That's why it's important for us to be with and observe, pick up information and bring home again, so that we don't sit at home on the mountain and feel so good about ourselves that we don't have to have any dialogue with the rest of the world. It'll be a very dangerous development. So I have to say a little bit about NATO. I was in a NATO command position the time we made the previous strategic concept. Obviously, it was different than what we're going to get now. We have seen the Madeleine Albright results that have been presented and look forward to the dialogue that will take place in NATO to arrive at the new concept. I remember well in 1989 when the wall fell to the east. Then there were a lot of people who said, "Now there's peace, now we don't need any NATO anymore, we don't need any defense anymore." There were many people who discussed: what is it going to be of NATO? Where are we going to use military effort? Is it going to be like a United Nations police in a way? It wasn't. Something was changed on the concept, and it turns out that NATO has had an important role to now. I'm absolutely sure that without NATO we would have had major problems in our part of the world as well. It was mentioned today that free trade is an important area. Free trade is an important area because it creates an understanding between countries, between cultures. That's why we have to back it up. Major mention was made of the economic crisis in the EU. We'll be aware of that, I think. We know that in Europe this type of crisis has started a conflict before. We also have water and food, which comes up as crises all over the world. So let's think about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e841	Today, we are going to review the annual report to the WEU, but I also want to benefit from the opportunity to talk a little about future to the WEU. When it comes to the annual report, it was the previous delegation that carried out most of the year, while our delegation was on first occasion in the December 2009 plenary session. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union was established in 1954 and Norway is an associated member. The main task of the Assembly is to follow up EU security and defence policy. It prepares reports and adopts recommendations and issues on defence and security issues submitted to the Permanent Council of the VEU. The Assembly is also a link to NATO. The meeting meets twice a year in Paris. As an associated member, the five Norwegian representatives participated fully in the sessions and in the Committee meeting, but did not have the right to vote in plenary. The delegations of the EU countries to the WEU correspond to the delegations of the same countries to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, PACE. When PACE was to elect a new Secretary-General in 2009 to the Council of Europe, the work on Thorbjørn Jagland’s candidacy was, of course, an important task for the Norwegian delegation during the spring session. Informal contacts with European party and committee colleagues gave Stortinget the opportunity to strengthen Jagland’s candidacy, while the Norwegian delegation received useful information on the process and the thinking in PACE shortly before the end of the year would address the Secretary-General’s question. When I came to the VEU, I got very quickly information from the president that they had worked for Jagland there. The previous delegation also created two reports on the north. THE U.S. State Secretary Liv Monica Stubholt, who came to the VEU session and held an inauguration on Northern Region Policy. Our delegation could in so far consider following up on it, but then we got quite quickly after we started, information that the organisation was being wound up. It started with the United Kingdom saying that they wanted to sign out, and then the other countries came after, and in May it was a fact that the WEU was going to lay down in its current form. The last session is most likely to take place in June 2011. Our delegation will follow the work of the assembly until that time, so that we can follow the processes ahead and the role of Norway in a possible future organ. Several of the permanent members of the assembly, not least President Robert Walter, are active in finding alternatives to today's assembly. The argument is the need to maintain intergovernmental parliamentary transparency and control of the common foreign and security policy. The elected leaders of the assembly want to present different ideas to ensure this, e.g.: through a COSAC model. The WEU has set up a working group with a mandate to propose alternative solutions for today's Parliamentary Assembly. This report will be submitted during the June session, which will begin tomorrow. Then they want to set up a management group. It's pretty uncertain, I think, whether it's conceivable with a new structure. It is also uncertain about associated Member States that Norway is being offered to participate, and in that case at what price – which is known to us free of charge passengers now. But I feel that the members of the WEU have a strong wish that Norway should also be involved in the further work. But there is little evidence that the governments of the Member States are willing to spend a lot of money or resources on this. But then we also record a great deal of reluctance from the national parliaments against the European Parliament having an adverse impact on foreign and security policy, which is defined as an intergovernmental matter. The French Senate came on Friday last week with a resolution to create a new organisation based on a COSAC model. VEU is still an arena to deliver political messages. I think it is important that, where Norway has the opportunity to participate in Europe, we should act in order to have an impact, to establish contacts and to exchange information.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e864	This applies primarily to case No. 10, the notification of Norway’s participation in the ordinary UN General Assembly. The setting has been made unanimous, but with some different connection to the comments. The general meeting was characterised by the fact that the participation was large and not least by the fact that approx. half of the world’s Heads of Government were present. The main themes of the General Assembly were the financial crisis, Afghanistan, Haiti, climate, humanitarian issues, human rights and reforms within the UN's own organisation, to name a few. The UN plays an important role in the world community. The UN is a forum where nations meet and problems can be resolved by peaceful means, so that violent conflicts can be avoided. But there is no doubt that the UN is struggling. Pregnancy and unproductive bureaucracy consume resources that could have been used for more useful purposes. We're going to have the courage to point this out. The large number of countries affected by dictatorship, corruption and the absence of the most elementary human rights must also be taken seriously, and they demand their influence on the decisions, as well. We are finally on the verge of joining the United Nations, and we are on the verge of speaking with them. The UN Security Council is more marked by the great democracies of the world. Paradoxically, it can be an advantage for Norway if the Security Council has a slightly greater influence, even though Norway is only temporarily represented in the Security Council. The message is that the government is enjoying the change of president in the United States. The role of the United States in UN work is praised on almost every page of the entire message. For most of us, this is a natural thing. But that this unreserved support to the United States comes from a government in which the Socialist Left Party is involved may be a bit more eye-catching for some of us. But we have to take it as a sign, as they say in the NRK, that the world is changing – all the time. As expected, the Communication attaches great importance to continuing peacekeeping operations in Asia and Africa, as has also been the work of the Fourth Standing Committee of the United Nations. NATO plays an important role in this work. NATO, with its great resources, strong military force and its democratic foundation, is indispensable as the executive body of the United Nations. In this context, it is important that cooperation in NATO and cooperation with NATO partners continue in a world where new conflicts are emerging, whether in ethnic or economic terms. The UN is continuing to waver. Well, it's going to work. The need for an effective and effective UN has definitely not diminished in recent years. The government is leading Norway’s work in the UN in a good way. Norway as a resourceful and influential member is useful and important in the further development of the UN for the benefit of the world community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e881	Like the representative Ellingen, I would like to pay tribute to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the initiative taken when the various delegations met with the U.D. here at Stortinget. Let me also add that it is very important early to clarify Norwegian concessions in important matters, and that there will be real consultations with Stortinget. It has struck me more and more as I have also participated in other forums where the heads of foreign committees, for example, meet, or in the forum NB 8, which consists of the Nordic and Baltic countries. It is important that if there is to be an ‘added value’ for Norway to participate, we have a message, not just into the organisations, which is the Norwegian message, but also that organisations have a message when meeting their counterparts. That is why the consultations are important, and that is why the meeting initiated by the U.D. is also important. In addition, I just want to repeat that it may be useful for the U.D. and the Stortinget to have a dialogue on which delegations the Storinget will participate. We get from time to time invitations to participate in various delegations other than the permanent ones, and it is important that we have an open discussion about where it may be important for parliamentarians to participate. It is, I believe, an important dimension of cooperation that the parliamentarians can contribute a great deal in addition to and beyond what the government can do. So many people have been involved in the situation in Kyrgyzstan, and I agree with those analyses and assessments that were made there. Let me just briefly say something about two areas in particular. It's NATO and the UN. NATO, in addition to many other organisations, faces major financing challenges. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that it is dramatic for many of the organisations, precisely because the financial crisis is making so much cuts in national budgets. That's absolutely right. I think that both NATO and the UN are in the situation that many of the cuts that now have to be made come as a result of not gradually reforming. Many of the dramatic cuts you're going to see might have been avoided if you'd been more careful to reform along the way. But this, as we know, is a difficult matter for the big organizations. The new strategic concept of NATO is exciting to follow. The process has been exciting to follow precisely because it has been quite open and inclusive, and it will be exciting to see the process towards the Lisbon Summit, where the concept is to be adopted. What you can read from the expert group's proposal is that you carry on a lot of the idea behind the strategic concept that applies, but that you pay particular attention to two things. One is the alliances, the partnerships, the relationship with Russia. I think it is also important to be aware that many of NATO's inspiring Member States have a completely different history and experience with Russia than that, for example. Norway has and the need for insurance is stronger. This means that the balance between conventional weapons and nuclear deterrence can seem easier for us than for many of the countries that are now aspiring to NATO membership. It is a different threat picture for them, and we must include it when we develop partnerships with Russia – including in the NATO context. The second is that collective defence, military cooperation and consultations are what still stands as the pillars of NATO, and it is important to stress from the Norwegian side – and from other NATO countries, hopefully – that NATO is more than the operation in Afghanistan. So if NATO does not succeed against suspicion in Afghanistan, NATO is nevertheless the most important military alliance and that which provides Norwegian security. So over to the UN – and it's natural to connect it with NATO, which also shows the importance of having these debates in context. As the representative Myhre was in on, it is NATO, like many other organizations, that carry out many of the operations under UN mandate. That's why I also mentioned in the interpellation I raised earlier, in May, the very importance of being coordinated in those fields where NATO, the African Union and others can carry out missions on behalf of the United Nations. It is important that, in the context of the United Nations, we are a constructive and critical friend and that we are driving reform. Norway contributes about 8 B.C.E. It is also important that we are constructive and critical in our approach. Finally, let me say that I had the pleasure of being a delegate to the 64th General Assembly of the United Nations. It was an interesting meeting with a large organization, which obviously has a great potential, but also a great need for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e902	This annual report is not now the most extensive – nor is it the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy – but nevertheless it is important. If we look at the IPU, it is a global parliamentary assembly that has members from most countries, 151 countries. This Assembly shall work towards the development of representative democracy in all parts of the world and shall promote cooperation between the countries and parliaments. This is done through the various meetings, but not least through the exchange of experience between parliaments and through the strengthening of competences by working as one does here, for various commitments in key areas in a global context. I also think it is very healthy for the Norwegian deposit representatives who are represented there, to be confronted with the political reality elsewhere in our world so that they can draw better conclusions and get more insight and understanding. But the most important thing here is to build a parliamentary network. It is also important that these processes are seen in the context of the work of the United Nations and the United Nations agenda. These are ambitious goals, and it is not an unproblematic agenda for this organisation when we see the major challenges. I can mention that at the end of this week there will be an IPU meeting in Bangkok. The agenda includes three main themes which have been central to the Norwegian debate. It is the fight against international organised crime, including trafficking in human beings, and it is illegal arms trafficking and drug crime. This is the core of very important topics, internationally and globally. It is then important that the democratic assemblies also talk about this. The Bangkok meeting will, of course, deliver an opinion on this, and it must be followed up. IPU's work on the human rights of parliamentarians is important, but unfortunately is little known. I hope that the Bangkok meeting will be able to present a report that is becoming interesting and that can be followed up in a much better way in those countries that are most struggling with democratic processes, with a focus on the three-four main themes that I mentioned earlier. It's also important to look forward. The initiative that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken, which many people have taken in the past, that a greater common approach should be taken, including that of parliamentarians in the various forums, in order to achieve a common strategy, is important here. I myself sit in a subcommittee in NATO PA. Some meetings ago, I felt a little uncomfortable when we had different votes on how to treat the candidate countries in the NATO context. It would have been an advantage if we had had common discussions in advance on how to express ourselves in such a meeting. I also believe it is important to look at what the various subcommittees in the various assemblies will look forward to. I'll also bring in what I was in the middle of, that concerns NATO, how strongly NATO is now focusing on energy security. I had the pleasure of joining a subcommittee in NATO that was in Norway, in Oslo and in the West, to look at this. They actually went into the details and looked at the energy security, among other things. how the gas supply from Norway to Germany was ensured and whether there was sufficient security around the facilities in the event of a situation. This is important to notice, and we have to take this very seriously. Finally, I would like to mention what the Minister for Foreign Affairs was talking about in his main speech about the behaviour of the G20 countries in relation to the other parliamentary assemblies internationally. I think we must pay much more attention to this also in our political debate in Norway. The most obvious thing is to think about how we should just swallow away from decisions taken in the EU, which we have little influence on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e923	The level of activity of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly was also high in 2009, and the Norwegian delegation took an active part in the meetings both in Strasbourg and in the various committees. Unfortunately, the conflict between two Member States, Georgia and Russia, was also marked last year. This will also be the theme of the Monitoring Committee in Strasbourg next week. However, what attracted the most attention in the press, especially here in the country, was the choice of new Secretary-General. The campaign to get Thorbjørn Jagland elected as the new Secretary General was very well and professionally organised, and the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly took a very active part in this work. All the parties in Stortinget supported Jagland's candidacy, which was noticed throughout Europe. The European Democratic Group, or EDG, which is a member of the Progress Party, was the only group that unanimously supported Thorbjørn Jagland as a new Secretary-General. But Ichland also received broad support from the other political groups, and was eventually elected by 2/3 of the votes. Such a declaration of confidence by the Parliamentary Assembly is probably good to bring with it when I land is about to start the important work of renewing and streamlining the organisation. The plan to carry out this work was very well received by the political team of the Council of Europe, but I am not convinced that it was equally well received in the post-enlarged bureaucracy. It is therefore very important that both the Parliamentary Assembly and other forums in the Council of Europe follow closely and support the important and necessary work on efficiency and renewal. I have been a member of the Council of Europe Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights for almost five years. This Committee has human rights as its main area and has the primary responsibility for the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We know of all the problems that the court has had and still have with too many issues that are pending and not being dealt with. I don't have quite fresh numbers, but a short time ago, there were 116 000 things in line, and the number is rising. Protocol 14 was an important tool for renewing the Court of Justice and for bringing down the long queues. Russia's failure to ratify the protocol was a major problem on which our committee focused. The Committee had this on the agenda of each single meeting over several years, where we, among other things, invited colleagues from the Russian Duma, and we also traveled to Moscow to influence the outcome of the situation. I took this up several times with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I want to give him credit for taking up this important issue with his Russian colleague and helping to find a solution. Russia's ratification is now in place, and we are working on further simplifications through the so-called Interlaken process. The main challenge is to reject clearly groundless cases as early as possible, so that the Court can focus on what is important. Our political group, the EDG, will be conducting a seminar here in Oslo in September, where the renewal of the Court will be one of several key topics. So to something completely different, IPU, or the Interparliamentary Union: after the elections last fall, I have been a member and vice-leader of the Great Britain delegation to the IPU, so I'm going to focus on what happened after this. The delegation took part in the Easter session in Bangkok, where the main theme was youth participation in democratic processes, south-south cooperation and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. This year’s urgent theme was, of course, the earthquake disaster in Haiti. In addition, I have had the pleasure of attending a very interesting conference on Human Trafficking in London in February and followed this up with questions to the Minister of Justice on police cooperation in Europe to combat trafficking, and I recently attended various IPU events at the NPT Supervisory Conference in New York in May. IPU is not based on any convention or treaty, and any decisions taken are therefore not binding on the Member States either. That's the way it should be. However, I believe that the organisation is important to debate and exchange opinions and experiences on current policy issues, and not least on the construction of networks and good relations. For many years, there has been work to make the organisation a U.N. Parliamentary Assembly, which has also been supported by the Norwegian delegation. Without having so far made up some qualified opinion of this, I can see that it is still a long way to go before this can possibly be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e953	I will link some comments to both the communication from the government on NATO as an organisation and the report from the Norwegian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The NATO Storting Communication confirms that NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy. In addition to NATO being an alliance for collective defence, it is important for Norway that NATO also acts as the central forum for transatlantic security policy debate and cooperation. We have also stressed this strongly in the context of NATO's strategic concept. The Ministry also underlines this in the summary in the notification. I would like to stress once again that NATO has played an important role in recent years in ensuring democratic development in Eastern Europe and in the Balkans following the fall of the Wall. The role of NATO is often underestimated, but through the Partnership for the Peace Programme and the Membership Action Plan, i.e. the MAP, NATO has actually contributed to stabilising fragile democracies in post-Soviet areas and former Eastern Europe. The alliance has also contributed to the development of a stable Europe, which together can meet new safety challenges. The inclusion of Croatia and Albania in NATO in 2009 confirms the future of the Balkans within a Euroatlantic cooperation and a transatlantic security architecture. Stability and development, not only in Croatia and Albania, but throughout the Western Balkans require Euro-Atlantic integration. Serbia and Bosnia were included in the partnership programme at the Riga Summit. This was a priority task from the Norwegian side. The Norwegian Embassy in Belgrade was also a NATO ambassador for some years and contributed to democratic reform and modernisation of Serbia's armed forces. We now have the NATO embassy in Sarajevo. Bosnia also obtained candidate status at the informal meeting of Foreign Ministers in NATO in Tallinn on 22 April this year. The main theme of NATO in 2009 was overall developments in Afghanistan and the ISAF force in particular. Afghanistan will continue to be the main priority of the alliance in the years to come and is also Norway’s main contribution to international operations and development assistance. In addition, in 2009 NATO was characterised by the work on NATO’s strategic concept. Last summer, the Alliance appointed an expert group chaired by Madeleine Albright to provide basic material when Member States will finally adopt a strategic concept at the Lisbon Summit in autumn 2010. Both in the concept and in the day-to-day work of the alliance, it has been important for Norway to contribute to strengthening the dialogue between Russia and NATO – in addition to putting the role and disarmament of nuclear weapons into the debate on the concept. Norway, together with several other European countries, initiated the launch of nuclear disarmament at the Tallinn meeting on 22 April this year. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly has also made a strong commitment to NATO's strategic concept. Until last summer, this work was led by Jan Petersen. The final document was finalised at the March Standing Committee meeting of the Assembly and subsequently handed over the Secretary-General of NATO. I think it is politically important that NATO's priorities also have a parliamentary foundation. It also creates contact between NATO and the parliaments of each country. The Norwegian delegation to NATO PA has been very active during the period and has been involved in several of the important matters in the Assembly. Then I would like to add, as I have done before: the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has a strong female deficit, which also leads to a democratic deficit in NATO PA. Yes, it actually raises awareness that both the leader and the vice-leader of the Norwegian delegation are now women. Of course, for the Norwegian delegation, the spring session in Oslo, in the Folkets Hus, was mainly in 2009. Both content, implementation and organisation have subsequently received very good publicity from the central secretariat and from other countries’ delegates. Let me add that I think there is a reason to commend the amazing job that employees in the Stortinget did to make the big event work. It's about several of the departments here in the house. There were a lot of employees in Stortinget who stood on the whole weekend to help make that event very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e981	The Western European Union will cease to exist in 2011. Such a decision would have been unmistakably only a few years back. The closure is due to several factors. The EU has gradually tried to incorporate defence policy. They have not completely succeeded, but the existence of the VEU is obviously a corner in the side of the EU's integration efforts. France has once again become part of the NATO command structure in 2009, and it is not this cultural shock here, because what France perceives as the American invasion of Europe is not experienced in the same way. France may have other problems to deal with now than keeping the United States out of Europe. WEU has no real political influence, and it has never really had that. With regard to changed structural and practical framework conditions, EU enlargement has led to an increasing number of participating nations with different forms of membership. It has created challenges, despite what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said instead, that it is good for countries to come together, but it is unclear what kind of membership they have with each other and with the organisation. It's an old-fashioned form of control. It is a cultural shock for a Norwegian to come to Paris at the VEU Parliamentary Assembly and experience employees in uniform, coffee served in barrels, guards leading speakers to the pulpit, etc. It's a cultural shock for a Northman to experience, and I think it's also for most Europeans. So it's kind of a survival from the cold days of war – or the days of war, maybe – and it's obvious that this is something that's very expensive to operate. There are many employees and expensive to operate. There are many employees with unclear responsibilities, and I would also like to say in part – without claiming it – a little vague loyalty in terms of where these employees really report, how they report, and who they are responsible for. I find that difficult to deal with as a participant. Then there are unclear national framework conditions. WEU is dominated by the major countries, and that is quite natural. It will be, and it is probably in other organizations as well. However, national representatives have different motivations to sit in the WEU. Some are there to contribute, others are there to travel. I think we're going to be honest with that, instead of pretending to be just as engaged and interested. It is that the VEU is dominated by some representatives with very large languages, who speak very long and hot. And it is also true that the representatives sent to the WEU by the national parliaments have an interest in defence and security policy, but they have no influence in their own parties in their national parliaments. This means that they are neither advocates of defence nor of security, and the opinions they may come up with do not weigh very heavily when they come back to their group meetings around Europe. It's also a fact. The votes in relation to rather difficult reports in the WEU are always unanimous. I think that's remarkable. When dealing with very controversial issues such as the Middle East conflict, the conflict in the Balkans, etc., there is usually unanimity, despite the fact that the same representatives have major national differences in the political approach to these issues in their home countries. Then it's a little alarming that when you get to Paris, you agree completely. Now what? My claim is that Norway has little use for the VEU as an institution. It is politically irrelevant with little influence, as opposed to the Western European Armaments Group, where I myself represented on behalf of Norway for a few years ago, where we actually drove defence development and technology development, and created jobs and technology development in Norway. We had a real benefit of that. France has proposed, as mentioned earlier here, an alternative to the VEU, where it is necessary to bring together parliamentarians more on a voluntary basis, but they also mention the desire to bring together parliamentarians with defence policy and security policy as their special area. I think it's absolutely necessary to come up with some sensible solutions. But I still believe that France begins at the wrong end. You should also see if you want an institution: what should be the mandate, the role and the role of the institution? Who will receive the reports and what status will be given to the reports? How will such an institution cooperate with other parliamentary assemblies? It's absolutely essential. Instead of beginning at the end that one should have it because we have had it, one should look at what is the task of a future WEU, or another kind of WEU. The Progress Party is currently working on an alternative to parliamentary cooperation in Europe. Now the time runs from me, so I don't get time to elaborate on it any more, but we'll get back to it. It is obvious that today's cooperation is a survival of the cold days of war, and we should look at other forms of cooperation in areas that are equally important globally today, for example. finance, environment and energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1007	The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe plays an important and concrete role in many Eastern European and Central Asian countries. Through programmes and measures for conflict prevention, reconciliation, democratic development and human rights, the organisation is encouraged to link countries more closely, which in turn promotes peace and stability. It shall not fall under a chair that the OSCE also faces challenges. It's e.g. internal disagreement as to the role to be played by the organisation in relation to the so-called human dimension, which includes the promotion of human rights, such as freedom of expression, and the strengthening of civil society. Some countries, with Russia in the front, would probably want the OSCE to have a smaller role in these areas. However, from the Norwegian side, it is important to maintain it by providing the organisation with the basis for increasing the safety profile in its operations. In the Annual Report on the work of the OSCE in 2009, there are three main points I would like to highlight: the development of democracy in central Asian countries, the organisation's efforts to combat trafficking in human beings and the activities of the High Commissioner for National Minorities. Most countries in Central Asia got their first connection with self-reliance when the Soviet Union collapsed. The experience of democratic governance and a lack of civil society was almost non-existent, and respect for fundamental human rights was not the greatest either. We have seen that many of the countries have attracted authoritarian governance from the past, and that power is often concentrated in the hands of a small elite, who do not hesitate to benefit from family and friends, whether it is in politics or in the borderline between politics and business. Even if there are forces that want to secure democracy and fight evil such as nepotism and corruption, the range of challenges is relatively long. The fact that Kazakhstan has this year's chairmanship in the OSCE shows that there is a central Asian interest in taking advantage of the competence offered by the OSCE for the development of democracy and human rights. And it is unfortunately still a long way to go for some of these countries, as the political crisis in Kyrgyzstan testifies to. Trafficking in human beings, today's slave trade, is a serious form of crime, which involves gross violations of human rights. Thousands of children, women and men become victims of traffickers every year. One of the major problems in the OSCE area is young women who are being tricked or forced into prostitution of cynical backers. Very many of the foreign girls and women who work as prostitutes in Norway are victims of this. I'm glad that the OSCE is actively working on fighting this evil. As the big message points out, it is important that in the OSCE, sufficient resources are provided for this important work to be prioritised. How the fight against trafficking in human beings can be intensified will also be at the heart of the main session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which this year will be held in Oslo Congressens 6-10. July, with the Stortinget as a host. The OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities Knut Vollebæk works in areas of potential ethnic conflict and tries to prevent them through silent high-level diplomacy. The High Commissioner also visits Central Asia, South Caucasus, Western Balkans and the Baltic States, but also some EU countries. When I am a member of the Norwegian delegation to the OSCE PA, I participate in international meetings and election observation missions, there are many praises to be heard about the High Commissioner's work. There is little doubt that this institution is one of the OSCE's most important travel creators when it comes to intergovernmental conflicts involving ethnic issues. In June 2008, the High Commissioner presented a set of recommendations for the treatment of minority issues in intergovernmental matters, known as the Bolzano/Bozen recommendations. The state's responsibility for protecting national minorities within its own jurisdiction is highlighted. The High Commissioner is in favour of making his recommendations more binding in the long term. This is why virtually all conflicts in the OSCE area are related to minority issues. I am pleased that the government in the big news is in favour of making this more binding for the OSCE Member States, as Vollebæk suggests. Finally, I would like to add that the Grand Duchy's delegation to the OSCE PA has arranged for the High Commissioner to hold a special session at his annual general meeting in Oslo next month.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1035	I am among the lucky ones who get to participate in the Council of Europe delegation. When I say lucky, it's because this is one of the most meaningful you can do next to the big business. The Council of Europe is our own human rights organisation, founded in 1949, out of ten countries, including Norway. The back was the dark chapter in Europe's history, with extensive violations of human rights. Unfortunately, there is still a need for the Council of Europe. Today, the organisation has 47 member countries, all of Europe’s countries, except Belarus. The minimum requirement for becoming a member is a minimum of will for democracy, with an agreed obligation to change the constitution, the legal system, electoral laws, the introduction of freedom of the press and the freedom of organisation, and the rights of minorities. These are demanding processes in countries without democratic traditions, but the Council of Europe contributes with its expertise, and a monitoring system puts pressure on change. Unfortunately, not all countries are equally good at following up. Ukraine is one example. They're still not in target, after more than ten years of membership. One of the main obstacles is that the country is permeated by corruption. Another example is Azerbaijan, which spends more energy explaining human rights violations than they spend cleaning up. However, being a member implies a certain degree of performance for the authorities. We must continue to use that to put pressure on the will to deliver. Most organisations tend to expand in both cases and bureaucracy. It's easy to lose focus. The Council of Europe is probably there today. The Court of Human Rights has the greatest problems, one of the most important instruments we have for democracy and human rights in Europe. It is flooded by issues, not least from new member countries in the east, but also from the older democracies in the west, and is getting paralysed. In that respect, the election of Mr Thorbjørn Jagland as the new Secretary-General is very important. It is nice to have a Northman in an international top position, but the most important thing is that the new Secretary-General, who enjoys great respect in the Member States, is already well running a reform programme to slim down and target the organisation. Changes in the organisation of the Human Rights Court are underway, but it is so important to focus on the take-up of cases. A large proportion of the cases are so-called repetitive cases, where a judgment is properly complied with in the individual case, but without having consequences in the form of changes in the law of the Member State concerned. Thus, the result will not be a general improvement in human rights, but rather an increase in similar cases from the same country. Italy is one of the worst in that way. Fortunately, Norway is better. But this is a challenge to address both in the Parliamentary Assembly and in the Ministerial Committee. Norway should be able to take an initiative here. The Council of Europe is needed. That shows the things we get to deal with. The war between Russia and Georgia has been a repeat. It is the first time in the history of the Council of Europe that two Member States have been at war with each other. This should not happen, but once it has happened, the Council of Europe is an important forum for dialogue. I am convinced that the Council of Europe has helped to keep that conflict at a lower level than it would otherwise have been. Another example is the rights of the Gypsy, which for the nth time is on the agenda for the next session of this month. The Council of Europe calls what has not happened with regard to the access of Gypsy to education, work, housing, healthcare and social inclusion, a scandal. The father is that we make our decisions, go home and forget it all. I therefore miss a slightly more binding follow-up to the decisions taken, for example. that we take a proper discussion after each session on the decisions we have taken on how Norway can take greater responsibility for following up decisions taken at both government and wholesale levels. A good place to start can be just the rights of the gypsy eyes. Finally, I would nevertheless like to stress that the cooperation between the delegation and the secretariat and between the delegation and the government is very good. In particular, the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also management in other departments, always offers advice and advice when we ask for it, but as in most areas – it is always possible to improve. Human rights is an area where it is most desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1053	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1056	2009 was an important year for the Council of Europe. The election of Thorbjørn Jagland as Secretary-General represents a change of direction. Both the Ministerial Committee and the Parliamentary Assembly welcomed the fact that the organisation now needs a different type of leader than it has been tradition. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, the organisation must be reformed. An illustration of this is the more than 100,000 cases under consideration in the Human Rights Court. Secondly, the work of the Council of Europe in the core areas must be strengthened and prioritised. That's what's needed. Thirdly, the Council needs a leader who can speak the same language as the Ministers of State and Foreign Affairs of Europe. As the representative of Mr Voksdal has already mentioned, the campaign to get Mr Jagland elected well, and he was elected by an overwhelming majority in the Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the efforts of members of the Norwegian delegation, and in particular the important work of the Progress Party's Karin Woldseth and Øyvind Waksdal in its party group, the EDG. In January, Mr Jagland presented his reform programme in the Parliamentary Assembly. The programme will strengthen the policy management of the organisation, reform of the budgetary process and, in particular, review of all the activities of the Council of Europe with a view to clearer priorities. The reform programme was met with enthusiasm and broad cross-political support. There is reason to be concerned about the human rights situation in Europe. Human rights are being challenged both in the established Member States of the Council of Europe and in the new Member States. The Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, Thomas Hammarberg, presented his report during the spring 2009 session. He could point out a number of visits to the Member States of the Council of Europe. Hammarberg said that despite Europe's strong tradition of protecting human rights, sadly discrimination, xenophobia and racism are well-known phenomena in all countries. The position of disabled people and a poorly functioning judicial system were among the themes he highlighted. The Parliamentary Assembly has been actively involved in violence in close relations, trafficking in human beings and the persecution of minorities. Even in January, I took part in a debate on the situation of lesbians, gays and transpersons. The debate demonstrated with all possible clarity that values such as freedom of expression and assembly are not obvious. We recently saw an example of this in Lithuania, where the authorities would for a long time ban a peaceful demonstration under Baltic Pride. It is important that the resources of the Council of Europe are used properly, because the organisation needs to be streamlined and renewed, but – more importantly – because there is a great deal to be done before the Council of Europe's ambition to make democracy and respect for human rights a reality across Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1071	I would like to take the opportunity when the Minister for Foreign Affairs is here to draw up a few issues related to Nordic cooperation. This is how Nordic cooperation is very much in agreement. We agree that it is good, and there is a lot of cooperation in the different departments. Nevertheless, we see that the lack of conflict that lies in the Nordic, can also easily become a scourge in the sense that it is quick to do just as the next last speaker said, meet and decide, go home and forget everything. Now I'm not going to say that the government forgets everything. But I would like to stress that in some areas there is a need for extra effort, and there will be a need for some initiatives to be taken a little more than what I think we have seen in the last year. The bottom plan of Nordic cooperation lies in the joint Scandinavian, or Nordic, cultural cooperation, which is grounded in the Scandinavian Language Community. It is important that we take extra force on language cooperation, but not in such a way that we end up in the ditch that we stack up a lot of protection mechanisms against, for example. English. It is important that we bring linguistic cooperation into those tracks where, through a growth from below, it will actually contribute to a strengthened understanding of languages across the Scandinavian languages. That's why we're dealing with it, simply because we see that development is going the wrong way. The studies we have to borrow show that the understanding of languages between younger people is decreasing, and it's alarming. It's also important to engage wider, and I think it's a big point to take into account that if we see the North as a whole, we're actually the world's tenth largest economy. It invites you to think about a cooperation where we involve the business partners in a more active way. But as I said, it's important that the government now together take a force in areas related to language cooperation where we're buttering. One is quite specific about an initiative in relation to Nordic coordination of copyright. The second concerns technology and terminology work, which is far behind in the wish. The third is teacher training, where there's also a reason to take care of it. In the media field, there is also a need to take own initiatives to strengthen the possibility of seeing neighbouring countries’ television channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1084	The President would just like to point out that the Nordic countries are not on the agenda today for the matters we are dealing with. That debate tends to be in the autumn, but the commitment to cooperation can be seen positively. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-11. [[See pages 4075 to 4076]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1102	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 13 and 14 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 4076]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1131	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1140	The two issues we are dealing with now concern the approval of the so-called INSPIRE Directive and the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information, the Spatial Data Act. The INSPIRE Directive focuses on the sharing of data and services between public authorities. It also underlines the importance of being able to share data between neighbouring countries. The spatial data law shall contribute to good and effective access to public spatial information for public and private purposes and is a follow-up to the Directive. The Committee is concerned that improved access to spatial data is a prerequisite for good environmental policy and, not least, for good governance, and would stress the importance of national spatial information infrastructure for a wide range of societal areas. In Norway, we have already had good experience with Norway digitally, where municipalities, state agencies, large public users and other businesses work together to provide spatial data, and the Committee therefore notes that the principles of the Directive already adhere well to current Norwegian policies. So there's an overall committee that presents these two issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1149	Although there is no burning desire in Stortinget to discuss this particular matter, I would say some words anyway. The importance of the matter is not reflected by the number of debaters, but it is a matter of unanimity, and therefore there is no temperature that draws people to the hall. This is an important matter, because a large part of the public procedure is linked to geography. This applies to environmental policy, as Marianne Marthinsen said, and in very many other areas as well. Access to reliable geographic information is necessary to make good decisions in the field of environmental policy and in many other areas. If we are to implement measures that protect against contaminated land, we need to know where the pollution is. If we're going to study the life-style of the wild, we need to know where the wild train is pulling. If we are to know how a bear moves between Norway and Sweden, we need to share information with the Swedes about this – just to mention some examples. Therefore, it is very positive that an overall increase is behind the proposal for the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information — the Spatial Data Act — and also the INSPIRE Directive. This is important for business, it is important for public administration, it is important for inland and inland transport systems – it is important in many areas. It is an example of good international cooperation and also an example of how good internal cooperation in Norway stands as a model for other European countries, because we have managed to integrate the various public agencies to a completely different extent than many other countries, so that we get a comprehensive national information system, in which others are interested. The basic public information is part of the Norwegian infrastructure in full line with steel, concrete, asphalt, roads, ports, airports, railways, energy supply, water and sewerage networks and everything else we think about in terms of infrastructure. The map base is an important foundation for many societal tasks. In addition to those I have already mentioned, I can mention defence, emergency and rescue services. And not least, the map basis is important for the planning, development and operation of infrastructure itself. We're also getting more and more sophisticated maps with three-dimensional illustrations, which make it easier for people to understand. I just want to say that I visited the Kartverket on Hønefoss for a while. I'm going to honestly admit that I came there with a thought that this was a little squirmy place, where you're sitting with a lot of papers. But I came back very rarely inspired, for what amazing amount of information! You can go into any point in Norway – let's say the port of Risør. You can find out which ships lie there, what nationality they have, all kinds of boats, and about port conditions – and anything about Risør. The exact same applies of course to Havøysund or which place you had to choose. That is why I would just like to end by thanking all the institutions behind this: the Norwegian Forest and Landscape Institute, the Norwegian Road Administration, the Norwegian Polar Institute, the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate, the Riksantikvaren, the Norwegian Geological Survey, the Directorate for Nature Management, the Directorate for Fisheries, the Climate and Pollution Directorate, the Meteorological Institute and many more, not least the municipalities. The reason for success is that there is no doubt about information, but generously share it with others, so that any businessman, municipality and individual who wants the widest possible information can get the sum of what all the best professional environments in Norway, and after each international one, possess. So it is a good day, although the interest in debate is not so great.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1162	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 13 and 14. [[See page 4077]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1178	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1187	I would like to justify our proposal and assume that those who are in charge of the vote will justify their views. We have put forward a proposal like this in the past. During the examination of those proposals, the majority of the red-green population rejected the government's request to review tax depreciation rates. The red-greens further refused to seek equal treatment for purchased and self-developed business values in tax write-offs. Nor did the majority wish to clarify the legislation so as to depreciate production equipment in the same balancing group as machinery. They refused to go through the tax depreciation legislation on technical installations in construction with the aim of promoting regulatory changes that stimulate rational and energy-saving investments, and refused to go through the depreciation rules of the tax law with a view to making simpler and more competitive rules vis-à-vis our competitors. The need to take a closer look at the impact of the depreciation rules and the different effects are still present. I'm dealing with the proposal that we're behind. It is important to have depreciation rules that reflect actual capital consumption, and rules that are in line with what we find in our main competitors. The document mentions examples of Norwegian depreciation rules that are not in line with those in our neighbouring countries, with trading partners and in areas where the rules are unclear. It is strange that the majority, for example: does not see that the example of non-machine manufacturing devices with a 4 pst depreciation rate should provide sufficient evidence that the review is necessary. At a time when industry is experiencing considerable uncertainty about development and future growth and opportunities in important export markets, it is a clear disadvantage for Norwegian industry that depreciation rates are lower in Norway. The Ministry has previously admitted that the empirical data base for current rules is old. The Party considers that it is important that the depreciation rules are simple to deal with. This applies, for example: goodwill and also intangible values such as software. The knowledge industry is becoming increasingly central to Norwegian value creation. Strong arguments have been put forward that the lack of simple and diabolical rules for the depreciation of software may hinder the development of Norwegian jobs in software development. A review of the depreciation rules as a business policy instrument would have been of great importance for the sake of clarity and predictability, simplification of treatment and competitive conditions for the knowledge industry. Depreciation rules are key elements in promoting innovation and innovation. Norway is one of the few countries in Europe that requires the activation of R & D efforts. Competitive innovation companies point to this as an important element in strengthening Norway’s competitiveness in the future. Therefore, there is much evidence that there is a need for an overall review of depreciation as a food policy instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1206	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1209	The Left wholeheartedly supports the proposal for a representative to strengthen the rules on depreciation as a business policy instrument and also as an environmental and climate policy instrument. In the view of the Left, the depreciation rules are a very suitable fiscal instrument to stimulate new environmentally friendly activities, which can be extended and used more actively. I also register that the government parties and the government in connection with the crisis package last year thought that better depreciation rules were a targeted tool for speeding up Norwegian business and new investments in Norwegian jobs, while only technocratic and non-political approaches are argued in the vote. It is possible that I am naive, but I do not understand why the government parties will not discuss that depreciation rates can be better and more targeted. In this way, I look forward to the State Council possibly explaining this reluctance in its contribution. As several speakers have pointed out, at least Kenneth Svendsen, Norway has lower depreciation rates than other countries in several areas. This means that Norwegian companies have a competitive disadvantage. In addition, we have a strange wealth tax on many of the same assets. It causes Norwegian business and Norwegian business owners a double disadvantage compared to other countries. I believe that this in itself is an argument for a thorough assessment of whether today's depreciation rules are adapted to the reality around us. Another element that warrants such an assessment is, as the Left Party, the Advance Party and the Right, in the setting: ‘The knowledge industry is becoming increasingly central to Norwegian value creation’, and many of the Norwegian tax rules are made on the basis of a different type of industrial structure. A good example is what emerged from ICT Norway in the Committee’s consultation on revised depreciation rules for software development, which, in my view, clearly shows that we need a review of the depreciation rules to adapt these tomorrow’s business and tomorrow’s challenges. I will also address the environmental aspects of the depreciation rules in particular and the tax system in general, as the proposers are also concerned. In its alternative budget, which we will also discuss later today, the Left has proposed a separate additional rate of 5 pst. for investments in machinery, etc. which has a demonstrable environmental impact and results in increased energy efficiency. Such a proposal is based on the Left's policy for a continuous shift from red to green taxation, and is thus a desire to differentiate environmental tax and tax applications, and it is based on the Left's policy to stimulate more new enterprises and jobs in environmental and climate technologies. I note that the government parties – a little surprising – are almost monomantically opposed to such an approach, and they also write in white in this setting that you do not want a tax system that favours investment in some operating resources. This is difficult to interpret as anything other than that government parties do not want a tax system that stimulates behavioural change, for example. in a more environmentally friendly direction, or that stimulates the types and activities of enterprises we want more in the future. [[State Council Sigbjørn Johnsen was present in the staging room under Borghild Tenden's posts.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1228	The President would point out that the Council of State should be present when we start dealing with matters within the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1231	I was a little surprised even at the progress of things! So this is about depreciation, as far as I understand. I read with amazement the position of the majority and, not least, the letter of the Council of State to the Committee on this matter. [[Laughter]] It is surprising that the proposal in the document is so easily rejected, all the time when the majority during the financial crisis participated in the active use of depreciation to counter the crisis. - I just have to breathe out a little! I perceive the letters of the Council of State to the Committee as indirect criticism of its predecessors in this area. Then we may also see the reason for the reversal of incentives, long before anyone believes that the financial crisis is facing the export-oriented and market-oriented part of Norwegian business. Depreciation is an important instrument. They are important in relation to the conditions under which competing activities in other countries are subject and shall be used to demonstrate actual consumption of fixed capital. Of course, the actual economic impairment of operating assets shall be as reflected in depreciation rates as far as possible, but this is not always an exact science. It is therefore regrettable that old information from the 1980s is used as an excuse not to get into the issue. There are several issues that call for active debate on depreciation. The judgment of the Civil Service Tribunal of 2008 in respect of manufacturing units is dramatic and involves a whole new line in relation to the instruments covered. In addition, the majority are deaf to the call of the IT industry for clearer and more realistic treatment of R & D, most recently mentioned in the Financial Newspaper on Saturday. A little more surprising is also the deafness of the agricultural call for depreciation rates on farm buildings, which reflect a real productive life for them. The majority agree with the Council of State that an empirical study from the 1980s and a simple control calculation from the SSB are well-founded to say that the depreciation rates seem to be fairly correct. In the post-1980s, we have experienced the fall of the Berlin Wall and Communism, Asia's growth and development and Europe's development against the debt crisis and possible falls. It's a world characterized by a completely different dynamics and completely different requirements for conversion than you've ever had. Norway must work hard not to be caught by the lack of competitiveness experienced by many countries in Europe. Norwegian policies must then be more than replacing private jobs with public ones because more oil can be poured into the state budget. In rough terms, it's the red-green government story to date. In his letter to the Committee, the Council of State reveals that he does not really know what depreciation is. He agrees with the decision of the Civil Service Law, which is based on the fact that the assumed life of the operating assets is 20 years. It's directly misleading to say that 4 pst. depreciation of the balance corresponds to a life of 20 years. After 20 years, such an operating asset will continue to be tax assessed at 44 pst. of cost, not zero. Here, the Council of State deludes the majority, and the majority does not have the power to protest. In addition, I think it can be seen as being highly doubtful if the assumed 20-year life span is something that will affect a lot of manufacturing facilities. Technological changes are coming faster and faster. If an industrial enterprise is to be a leader in relation to the environment and competitiveness, it is essential that it is renewed. The manner in which production devices are to be treated will be an obstacle to this. It wants the minority to do something about it, and we deeply regret that the majority reject the proposal so blatantly. We now see some alarming signs in time. The Norwegian industry reports that the level of investment is fast moving south. The financial crisis is probably an important cause. It has also shown how vulnerable we are, and how important it is to have businesses that have equity and reserves to be able to withstand ‘a drag’. This government is burning the bridges. The public budget does not prioritise investment for the future and does not stimulate new business. You consume more than you create. You have bigger consumption of capital than what's being replaced. It provides more room for money use today, but it provides lower welfare for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1261	The President would point out that representatives should also be present in the Chamber when dealing with matters of the Committee they represent and where the floor is to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1264	What is the main line of government, and what I think also has broad support here in the hall, is that the tax depreciation should be in proportion to the impairment of the means of operation. It is a fundamental position that one should include in all discussions about depreciation rates and business taxation. I am reasonably sure that the Ministry of Finance and, at least, the Government fraction are fully aware of the difference between the depreciation and the linear depreciation, and that there may be a discussion of what is the right principle to the greatest extent. We know that in a linear depreciation, one gets to a zero point faster than in a balance-depreciation, to put it simply. With regard to the use of depreciation rules in the field of food policy, it has a long tradition. It's had a tradition, and I'll say it's also going to have a tradition. However, it is a cross-thinking that the tax depreciation, which is positive, and the operating impairment, which is much smaller, relate to the oil sector, so that one has chosen that it is particularly important in this sector to have depreciation rates that reduce the operating resources faster than wear. It is also a cross-thinking that the tax rates in sum of some oil companies that have activities that are not linked to such high performance are, in reality, higher than the equivalent activities in the power plant sector. What I therefore believe is the conclusion in this matter is that the government must have a principle line, with the will to have a pragmatic attitude to the depreciation rules ahead. It is a question that a continuous one has to consider in relation to the challenges. But most importantly, at the ongoing assessment one has a look at how one wants to develop business. It is quite obvious that we are now in a situation where the real economy must play a much more central role in relation to the financial speculation we have had and have. Thus, we need to ensure that economic resources are channelled into those parts of the real economy that are forward-looking, not least in the case of renewable carbon and renewable energy. Long value chains linked to it are central, and it may also be appropriate to use the depreciation rules to further stimulate that activity. What is available from the government parties in this matter is that we will follow this closely and continuously and use that part of economic policy also to promote an economic development that is necessary in the future. There is a need for considerable and significant action to change the behaviour of those with economic surplus resources, so that we can channel it into real economic production activities that have environmental aspects and sustainable aspects in themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1279	I can inform you that I have been here for the entire procedure. It is a very comprehensive proposal which has been promoted and which we are discussing in this matter. Here are almost all aspects of the depreciation policy, purpose and delimitation and all possible aspects of the depreciation. However, as has been explained in the past, the majority of the case consists in the suspension of the government parties, and we believe that this case has also been thoroughly assessed in the past. It is accepted that depreciation rates shall reflect the actual economic impairment of operating assets. This is of course important for the system to function neutrally on investment decisions and not favour investment in some operating resources. The majority therefore points out in its observations in this case that ‘a specific high depreciation rate on some operating assets will result in capital being deducted from other and more socio-economic profitable investments’. [[...]] Therefore, such preference may affect the overall value creation in Norway. The majority emphasise that a stable and responsible economic policy – which in turn results in a stable framework for business – will promote investments that are going well, rather than tax rules that govern such investments. It is therefore necessary to draw up the rules with the aim of ensuring that they are as neutral as possible and that investments are treated in the same way as they are in total. This must, in sum, be regarded as fundamental principles. Nevertheless, it is of course that both the department and the staging have to assess continuously – as Per Olaf Lundtägen had to do – measures based on evidence that emerge. This resulted, as we know, among other things. in changes in depreciation rates when we dealt with the action package last year, i.e. in 2009. But the most natural thing is that changes take place during the ordinary budgetary procedure. Direct taxation, including depreciation, is not, in our view, the most appropriate instrument in environmental policy. It has also been discussed before, under another finance minister and another government that had the same view. The best way to reduce environmental damage is by direct targeting of emissions or environmental damage. The most important thing for Norwegian business, and for Norway, is a responsible economic policy – a policy that today’s government stands for. We can see that, among other things. of our uniquely low unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1296	It is right, as the representative Opheim says, that he has been present throughout this process. In addition, the representative Kenneth Svendsen and the president have also been here – in addition to that, more have probably come in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1300	I fully agree with the President that it is important to get started in time. It's a good trait that you do it. It is good that we discuss the conditions for value creation in Norway. It is good that we have discussions that point to some of the things that may be our biggest challenge in economic policy in the future: having a mainland industry and a continental economy with a safe and long-term value creation. We are all aware that at some point the revenue from the oil and gas business will fall. It is then important that at that time, at the latest, one has a good and up-coming mainland industry. If you look back, it's like Norwegian business is doing well in international competition. However, with regard to the conditions we now see, especially in the European market, it is clear that this will be much more demanding in the future. This will require political attention and efforts in several areas, not least in the general context of economic policy. Depreciation for business is part of this reality, but the basic principle must be, as the representative Lundtigen says, that depreciation should reflect the depreciation on what one has invested in, and that depreciation should be made in such a way that on the day you have to reacquire a means of production, you have used depreciation as part of the financing to obtain it. After all, if one goes back to the 1992 tax reform, it was a fundamental principle in that one would have had a tax system over the years, for example. through the use of depreciation rules, which made the tax system both well-perceived and unsuitable for the purposes for which it was intended, including: on the acquisition of proceeds. At the same time, there was also a large distribution of bias in the depreciation and provisioning system of different investment objects, which meant that one did not always get the right investments, so to speak. So it's also important to have the effect of the tax system in this discussion. One might say in this way that the tax system, including depreciation rules, may work best if it's not exactly accurate, but at least when business and socio-economic go in the same direction. There will always be a country out there that has both lower depreciation rates and lower tax rates, but the sum of a comprehensive policy in Norwegian business is in a way not to take the lowest rate of tax or the highest rate of depreciation from a country and put it together into a comprehensive policy in Norway. It has to be a more general and holistic approach. So as a response to the representative Tende, we will of course continuously evaluate depreciation rates. It is part of the annual budget work that we look at both the division into balancing groups and depreciation rates in order to have the most precise system possible. It is also true that in very special cases, such as during the financial crisis, depreciation rates could be used for a limited period of time to give a handshake to industry or to industry. But those are the exceptions, because it's important that this is put into a larger whole. But once again, I think it is good that we have many Document 8 proposals – although they can be quickly and quickly intertwined – that we have Document 8 proposals on economic discussion, on the conditions for Norwegian value creation. I think it is important for politics that we have this little air hole where we can discuss such things from a more general point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1322	I could not record any direct response to the challenge regarding the judgment of Civilizing Lawyers' Law, because there is no disagreement that depreciation should reflect the actual value of the manufacturing device. But when you say that 4 pst. Depreciation of balances reflects a life span of 20 years, because the judgment is based on direct misconceptions, because you are left with 44 pst. of the value of the day you've passed 20 years. I could imagine the Council's answer to that, because that's a pretty dramatic change that's happened. In the past, you have well written this off with 20 pst. And that means you have reduced the depreciation by 75 pst. for the kind of devices, so these are special areas that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1327	I don't think it leads anywhere to us going into a deep discussion of that verdict, except to say that the department is satisfied with the assessments that the law has made in that context. So that's essentially my short answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1332	To the previous article – from the representative of Gundersen: No, no one demands that the Council of State enters into some deep discussion of the judgment. But can I perceive the Council of State so that he supports that these installations should be in balancing group h, with 4 pst. – for that is what he writes – and can I also perceive it so that he supports that they should be written down after 20 years – because that is also what he writes? Does the Council agree that the letter can be understood as such?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1337	What is my assessment and the department's assessment is that we are well satisfied with the judgment given in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1342	I have a question about using the tax system to stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour. What does the Minister of Finance think about that? Is it thought wrong or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1347	Here I think one has to separate. The tax system also includes depreciation. But I agree with what was said by the representative Opheim here, that it is enough more targeted to use grants, or to the extent that the charging system, in order to achieve certain environmental impacts. Often it can be a little bit more random if you use it, for example. Depreciation rules, but we have good experience in some areas of targeted use of the charging system to achieve specific environmental impacts, including: through the use of the CO2 tax, to take an example. Another example is the NOx tax, and there are other cases that can be identified in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1358	When the Right promotes proposals for representatives to help make investments for business better, according to the experience gained by the Government itself in the crisis budgets, where the government used depreciation at the time to stimulate increased productivity, increased production. It seems like this government, and the Minister of Finance, too, only approves proposals that you make yourself. What is obvious is that this government has given priority to strengthening public demand. State, municipalities and county municipalities have been strengthened and more often ignored by private businesses when there are tips on what to enter. We've seen a lot of enquiries. What we're wondering is that a general proposal like this is so blatantly rejected by the Minister of Finance. This is not good for Norwegian industry and not good for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1367	I have both great joy and benefit from both listening and hearing the posts coming from the opposition. But the main point in this case is that the depreciation rules and the depreciation system are an ongoing budgetary matter. I recall, although some time ago, that in 2002, the Stortinge had a thorough review of the principles underlying depreciation rates. So I want to say, based on past experience, that using the depreciation system without putting it into a whole context often leads to you finally getting a system that's not usable. This was one of the starting points for the 1992 tax reform. But as I said in my main post, I think this kind of debate is good. And as I have also said before, there will be ample opportunity to discuss conditions for Norwegian business in a wider context both on Friday and when we come to the 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1374	I understand that the Council of State will not go into the judgment of the Lawyers' Court. But there is no doubt that the Council of State in its letter has misunderstood the rules on depreciation, and that the Storting must somehow be made clear from the ministry what is being written. But I'm going to change the theme. This case in Borgarting Lawyers' Law came from a change in a 30-year practice on equations. My question is more general and general: is this something that the Council of State sees as an important area for the Ministry of Finance and the Council of State, i.e. entering into established practice of equality with Norwegian taxpayers and changing that kind of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1382	It is clear that both this State Council and I are counting on other government councils to focus on an ongoing assessment of the conditions such as: is behind the practice of legislation and laws. The same would be true of depreciation rules. As I said in my main post, we make ongoing assessments of both the specific arrangement of balancing groups and depreciation rates based on new evidence that had to be found. That's part of the job we have to do. So it has been, and so it has to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1387	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[See page 4078]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1405	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1412	The amendments to the Accounting Act and some other laws to be adopted today are based on the investigation of a legislative committee, NOU 2008:16, which was set up, among others. following a letter from Ecokrim to the Ministry of Finance in December 2004. At the time, Ecokrim had experience with a number of corporate scandals in Norway, including the Finance Credit case and the Sponsor Service case. In addition, a number of international scandals had given rise to new knowledge of financial crime which made it necessary to review the law and, if necessary, to change it in order to improve corporate governance and prevent the manipulation of financial information. The legislative proposal also implements EEA obligations corresponding to Directive 2006/46/EC. Ecocrim points in his letter to a number of key characteristics of the type of crime that underlies the changes in law we are now making. This is according to Økokrim’s letter, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t creative accounting with inflated profit and balance sheet items unbridled corporate structures, many transformations and businesses in many countries, often with different auditors little or no contact between auditors in the non-consolidated related companies many and complex transactions between related companies in domestic and foreign use of companies in tax havens using creative advisors to facilitate complex structures that can abuse management that prevent or directly counter direct contact between the board and the company’s chosen auditor’s covert collection of the company, and reward systems related to accounting results; The mandate of the Committee has been the evaluation of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing and measures against the manipulation of financial information. There has been a wide consultation of the legislative committee and the vast majority of the hearing bodies conclude on the proposed legislative changes. The Committee is essentially in agreement with the proposal for the legislative amendments proposed by the Ministry. The majority of the Committee also adheres to the changes proposed by the Ministry that go beyond the legislative committee’s proposal, and supports the ministry’s view of placing a number of emphasis on the recommendations of Ecocrim based on experience on specific issues. However, the majority proposes some changes to the law dealing with remuneration rules in financial institutions to include trustees in addition to employees of the same types of enterprises. Remuneration for executives and trustees has often been designed to give strong incentives to high risks in the entity, which only appear after a time, and after bonuses have been withdrawn. It is therefore essential to establish rules for remuneration and bonuses that promote good risk management and financial stability in enterprises. In the majority's view, the amendment of the law that we are making today, with requirements for the remuneration schemes for trustees, for senior management, for other employees whose duties are significant to the undertaking's risk exposure and control tasks, is very important in view of the future. The majority of the Committee also proposes amendments to the law governing the provision for meetings between the Management Board and the auditor without the presence of the Executive Director. The majority have taken note of hearing opinions that have raised questions about the value of information being provided even when the annual meeting was held. As a result, it may appear to non-resident users, in particular, to be unclear about the nature of such a meeting. The majority consider that the provision is met if the information requirement is limited to cases where the meeting is not held. At the same time, the Committee considers it more natural that the provision should be made as a requirement for information rather than as a conclusion in the audit report. The Minister of Finance, in his letter to the Workers' Party, has supported the majority's proposal for amendments. The minority in the Committee will present its comments and proposals for amendments. In the letter to the Workers’ Party’s fraction, the Council of State also drew attention to an incursion in the Ministry’s draft law by excluding from the corresponding wording of Section 5-6 of the fourth paragraph of the Accounting Act requirements for the auditor’s assessment of the corporate governance statement proposed in Section 5-1. 4 for the audit report. The Committee proposes that that incubation be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1457	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a good explanation of the matter. Although it is very good that is being changed, we in the Progress Party are skeptical and wondering about some of the things that are being proposed or not proposed. In particular, this is the case for Chapter 3 of the Proposition on Corporate Governance. Why does the majority not want public administration activities to be covered by EU Accounting and Audit Directives? These activities are of absolute public interest and are operated on behalf of taxpayers. There has been no lack of media examples in recent years in which we have seen many instances of bad governance in the public sector. More transparency around this would be appropriate. We therefore propose together with the Right and Left: ‘The Government requests the promotion of corporate governance for public enterprises with a view to introducing the same corporate governance requirements for public administrative activities as for public limited-liability companies’.» Regarding Chapter 4 of the Proposition on the composition of the Board, we believe that the absolute prohibition proposed in Section 6-1 of the General Share Act is unfortunate. In this connection, I refer to the letter of hearing dated 19 May 2010 from the NHO, where the NHO proposes that the Executive Director should not be able to be elected as a member of the Management Board, but that the reverse should be possible. This will meet the need for some flexibility in such companies as well. We support that, and we are promoting amendments on this point. As regards Chapter 5 of the Proposition on meetings between the Board of Directors and the auditor, the NHO has also pointed out in its letter of consultation that this obligation can be a burden on many companies, that as many as 5000 companies can be required to do so, and that a large proportion of these companies are considered small companies. The NHO calculates the cost of business to be about 50 million. kr. We share this concern. I don't have any figures on how many debates I've been in over the last few years where we've been discussing the form field and how important it is that the administrative burden on business should be reduced. But then we see examples of politicians adopting new laws and regulations without thinking about what the consequences are. The administrative burden on business should be reduced, not increased. We therefore oppose the government's proposal for a new Section 2-3 and Section 5-6 fourth paragraph No. 5 of the Auditor's Act. We in the Progress Party believe it is important that the boards are very active in relation to the control and development of the activities for which they are responsible, and see contact with the auditor as an essential part of this work. If the Administrative Board wishes to have a discussion with an auditor without the administration, no one may prevent the Administrative Board from holding such a meeting. I would also like to point out that all listed companies and financial corporations will have an audit committee from 1 July 2010. This sample shall be composed of members of the Management Board and shall be in constant contact with the auditor of the company. In addition, the auditor's report and reports are important documents in this context. As regards Chapter 11 of the Proposition on Small Business Limits, we believe that the limits for small enterprises can be set as high as possible within the scope of the Directive to reduce the administrative burden on several companies. We are therefore promoting, together with the Right and the Left, an amendment on these limits. I would like to refer to the majority’s proposal on the auditor’s reporting of the annual meeting with the Board of Directors under Section 2-3 of the Auditor’s Act. The party of progress thinks that this proposal is a little strange. If the meeting has not been held, the auditor shall indicate that the meeting should have been held. If the meeting is held, the auditor shall not report it. Now, if you read an audit report and the meeting is actually held, you do not know if the company has any obligation to meet. It must in itself be a central piece of information for the first time to have a system of annual meetings. First of all, the obligation to meet should not be imposed on account users to know whether they have such an obligation and whether it has been complied with. With regard to Chapter 13 of the Proposition, which deals with regulatory remedies for the remuneration of financial undertakings, we believe in the Progress Party that wages and allowances should be determined by the owners of the undertaking concerned and that there is no State that should interfere. How much is it going to be of state coercion and roof on how much can you earn in one industry? Why is it only the financial industry that needs a maximum remuneration? Will these be strange rules? In conclusion, I would like to address the proposals we are promoting with others and alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1488	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1491	It is rarely a reader who better confirms the saying that it is easier to see the fragment in the eyes of others than the beam in his own. Initially, I will take a great distance from the almost total mistrust of the level of competence of the Norwegian government on which the proposition is based. I will not underestimate the fact that there are people who close their eyes, who do not have the competence to see their responsibilities, and that there are even cellar rings in Norwegian governments, but this – and especially the latter – is not the main rule. Most governments in larger companies have competence and want to do an honest, honest and real job. The law is clear today, the responsibility for the business lies with the board. Finance Credit is the clue to the changes and demands that we are dealing with today. It's mildly said a somewhat special selection. Even more remarkable, in view of the fact that the scandal in Lower Rome’s Waterworks has just been resolved in the judicial system, is the closest naïve lack of critical focus on public business by the majority and the challenges facing transparency, competence and business management. In private activities, the owner's equity disappears only through poor and irresponsible management. This is a good guarantee that you are interested in control. In a public enterprise, the loss is borne by the taxpayer. Corruption hunter Eva Joly was watching as she suggested that we have more corruption in public than in private businesses. The challenge of transparency and competence is at least evident in many cases. If the NRV was not enough to get the alarm clocks to call the Minister of Finance's office, he should spend a little more time in his own local way — the Hamar Arbeiderblad — which, since last autumn, has tried to obtain the real figures related to the development of the football stadium of Briskeby. Accounts and agreements are kept secret, and it's a whirlwind of corporate structures. Voluntary activities, business activities and political ambitions are mixed up in something that may be reminiscent of a major disaster in the run-up. Friday's headline in HA was that 400 million. The taxpayer is transferred to take responsibility for it. NRV-checks Jørgensen is put on the case, and his statement that the matter is one of the most complicated he has seen, does not calm down. The point is: there should be a minimum requirement when setting requirements for private individuals, that it should also apply to public activities. I don't understand the majority's argument. So to the distrust of Norwegian governments. If the Council of State is right in assuming that most Norwegian governments in larger businesses are made up of people who are incompetent or who will only close their eyes to what is happening, we have a much bigger problem in Norwegian business than state control regulations can fix. I would like to repeat that I am dissociating myself from the assumption, but the Council of State cannot believe that writing the laws and regulations should be justified for any incompetence. It would be healthier and more correct to focus on tougher consequences when something wrong happens than to impose on all those who do their best and who create good businesses, even more bureaucracy and more demands. As a general rule, we agree with the Right that the Executive Director should not sit on the Board of Directors for the business he manages. But what if the Executive Director becomes seriously ill or dies, should not a member of the Management Board be able to enter as temporary Executive Director until a new one is found? This is a practical approach to the challenges. We therefore propose that the Executive Director be unable to be elected to the Management Board. You get the same thing, but you give the companies room for practical adaptation in special situations. The duties of a board of directors involve full responsibility for the activities it manages. Good contact with and a strong ear to the auditor is a prerequisite. No one may prevent meetings between the auditor and the board of directors. The requirement for a separate meeting really undermines the sole obligation of the board to follow. Finally, a brief comment on the remuneration of employees and trustees. Only exceptional fees are paid depending on the performance. Then I ignore the fact that many have shares, which I think is good. Remuneration of trustees should continue to be a responsibility of ownership – alone. The remuneration of other senior executives is a challenge. The proposal that exists is full of good intentions, but is more for rhetoric than for reality. It's unclear and opens up too much discretion, and really just fixes the obvious. The problem is that the obvious depends on the eyes that see.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1509	I want to start by commending the government and the Ministry of Finance that they chose to take in several of the minority proposals from the selection that have worked out several of the proposals that we are now discussing. This matter may seem technical and perhaps also a little immaterial, bureaucratic and boring at first glance, but it is not. It's an important thing. I want to remind you of the starting point of the case – there are several major scandals that have deprived people of their livelihood and have deprived them of community values. I would like to underline the opinion of Ecokrim on the occasion of the case. They said in their time that the accounting and share laws legally allow both abuse and offences related to fact and law. So seriously is the starting point for this case. It was on this basis that a sample was set up to look at the law you work for, and that is why we now have a proposal for changes that are important steps towards better control and transparency. I can also mention that the fight against tax havens is the most important thing we can do politically to prevent financial crime and organised and serious crime – even terrorist activities. I would also like to commend the government for having just had the fight against tax havens as a priority task for several years. Fortunately – I would also like to say on the occasion of this case – it is not individual FrPs' tribute to tax havens that add the list of Norwegian policies in this area. There are several conditions involved in this setting. Another relates to accounting policies and whether the public sector is directly comparable to the private sector. Right here, important and exciting discussions are taking place around our own community for the time being, and LO is one of the spearheads to travel the debate. We note that the Right Party and the Advance Party – I believe both parties, but at least the Advance Party – want the public sector to be subject to the accounting systems to which the private sector is currently subject to much more. We're completely in disagreement with this. The majority, consisting of SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre, therefore have a separate note on page 16 to which I would like to point out, where we warn against exactly this, because such a turn could ‘facilitate and contribute to the competitive outsourcing and privatisation of public enterprises’. There is reason to stress that the public sector is something other than the private sector and should be governed differently. We can also look at what happened to corporate management of hospitals. There are also differences of opinion within the government, but on the SV side, I would at least stress that there is reason to look at how this has turned out – both for patients and for employees – and learn from it, and not start to introduce it elsewhere in the public sector. And then, finally, I think it's sad that the Progress Party continues its fight against gender quota, also in this setting. As I said, there are many themes involved. Instead, the Progress Party should realise that it has lost that battle, and rather support the good results achieved through the gender quota requirement, and realise that quotaing is actually about ensuring that we get better democracy, and recruiting from wider sections of the population instead of informal processes that prevent the most competent people from being elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1524	I would like to join the rapporteur's statement and link some comments to just two themes: accounting standards and corporate governance. Some hearing bodies propose that public enterprises be subject to the same accounting standards as private enterprises. Such recordings are often aimed at facilitating and contributing to the competitive outsourcing and privatisation of public activities, and it is therefore important for government parties to stress that public enterprises have funding and management needs other than private enterprises and that this must be taken into account in the budgetary and accounting principles. Not least the experience of some sectors of public activities, such as hospitals, underlines the need to realise this position. It is not surprising that the Right and Advance Party disagree with the government parties at this point. What is interesting, however, is that the Left Party now joins – again – in the view of the Right and the Advance Party on this important point. Furthermore, government parties show that in several contexts the government clearly has: ‘rejected budgetary principles in the country by model from what is found in the private sector, with, inter alia, extended disposal and financing powers for State activities. The Government has also made it clear that the decision to grant the Trustee should be based, inter alia, on the cash principle. because this gives the most unambiguous decisions and thus the clearest powers of administration’.» I find it very necessary to clarify this, that the cash principle provides the most unambiguous decisions and therefore the clearest powers for the administration. However, the principle of cash combined with the rule of action poses some demanding challenges. Because in situations where a person uses the cash principle on investments, rail, road, coastal and state buildings, we get a situation where there is a system error, in the sense that investment will lose in political competition with, for example, welfare improvements. This is a difficult discussion, which must be continued. Instead of looking at the principles of the private sector, perhaps in those investment areas, where one has parallels in the municipal sector, one should look at the systems of the municipal sector. The second point is corporate governance. Government parties say that the Ministry of Finance should be able to regulate remuneration – not only for employees, but also for trustees in financial corporations. The right is strongly opposed to that, and I'm willing to admit that it is especially for the government parties to go so far in regulating business. But from our point of view, it is necessary in relation to the culture that is incorporated into financial corporations, with an economic reward beyond reasonableness. It is quite obvious that, if one is to restore reasonable confidence in the financial corporations, a new and more demanding regulation is needed, so that one gets the financial sector where it is to be, namely as a ‘set’ around the real economy, and not as the main activity itself. Therefore, what is being done here by the government is very modest in relation to the international debate that is taking place on the regulation of the financial sector. Both the United States and Germany are now taking the degree to which the questions are addressed. They draw experience from the era we've been in and get to regulation that ensures stability, transparency and, as mentioned in previous speeches, a trend towards stimulating the real economy, and not the accumulation of the financial sector that we've seen leads to dramatic negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1542	I broadly agree with the rapporteur's presentation of the majority's view on this. I just want to remind you that there is a background on why we are dealing with this matter. It has probably been confirmed further through the period since the Ecokrim address to the Department, and to the result we are dealing with today. As far as remuneration is concerned, I must say that I fully agree with what Mr Lundteg said. There is no reason why this industry should not have a somewhat clearer framework than it is now. So if anyone's in doubt, the Christian People's Party here is completely in line with the government, and we're prepared to use stronger lye, too, if necessary. I was just going to make a small explanation of vote by the Christian People's Party on the matter of voting. Sometimes you can be influenced by good posts, and I think Gunnar Gundersen had a very good point when it came to the question of if a managing director gets sick. Then you might need a member of the board to step into a period of time. That is why we will be voting in favour of proposal No. 2, from the minority in the timing and the justification gave the representative Gundersen in a good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1549	Just a few comments. I think it is good that the proposals that have been put forward are supported because, as many people have pointed out, these are important proposals. Then a ask question about why they're so important. One reason for this is that the accounts that are issued are important to provide information about the company’s position and condition. It is important that one has accounting rules that ensure that one has the most transparency and that can help prevent circumvention. A good accounting code must disclose both the company's position and be an opportunity for outsiders to take a look at this enterprise. This transparency is important. On the part of the Ministry, we have chosen to place great emphasis on the experience and views of Ecocrim in relation to the specific legislative proposals. The other thing I think is important is that one through this law in many ways strengthens the audit position in the companies. It is important that the audit and board meet independently of the day-to-day management. Unfortunately, there are examples that this has not worked well enough. I think it's a strength both for the audit and for the board that one has that opportunity. The third is the discussion of remuneration. Of course, this is the case, and I fully agree, that the directors are the ones to set compensation – but there must be some driving rules. Not least the debate we have had in the wake of the financial crisis shows that there is a need for it. I think we have to be so honest with ourselves also in the debate that we see that there is a clear link between reward systems that can at least to some extent be said to stimulate speculation about the money of others – a relationship between the turnover you have – and the reward you get in that way. It is an important debate, which is not only going on in Norway, but it is also going on internationally, in Europe, in the United States and in other parts of the world. It is important in the future not to have unnecessary driving forces that contribute to speculation in the form of incentive schemes. Finally, I would like to say that the governments that are in Norwegian companies are consistently good. It is not that the background to the proposals we are making is based on a kind of thesis that governments are incompetent – rather on the contrary. There is a continuing high quality of the boards of Norwegian companies. I think you are happy that there are some driving rules that are important and important. Then, of course, the boards themselves have to do what they have to do, in terms of both having a good overview, overseeing the administration and ensuring that the companies are well run. I think having good driving rules, laws and rules in return will help the boards in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1561	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1564	Here it was a lot that it might be interesting to replicate a little bit around. But at the end, the Council of State also addressed it with the competence of members of the Governing Board – and then I would quote what is stated in the proposition: ‘ÖKOKRIM will point out that the Board of Directors of Norwegian limited liability companies has a comprehensive and clear responsibility under a number of provisions of share law. At the same time, we know that a number of board members – probably a significant majority – do not have the necessary professional prerequisite to fulfil the responsibilities of the board.’ So this is the judgment of the majority of the boards of major Norwegian limited liability companies. I can't see that there's anything else on the basis of the entire proposition. It might also be very interesting to point out that there are so many other examples than Finance Credit that underlie the proposition. It is important to get down to the concrete when adopting these kinds of laws. In § 2-19, paragraph i, we now say: ‘the termination of employment shall be adjusted to the results achieved over time and shall be designed in such a way that unsatisfactory results are not rewarded.’;» The Council of State has been appointed as Chairman of the Board of Directors itself. Reality is often the threat of poor management in getting rid of an Executive Director. We have work environment laws in Norway, we have employment protection, and the choice a board often faces is either to buy out an Executive Director from the contract, or let the Executive Director sit there until the business goes down and home. That's why I call this kind of prescription a show for the rhetoric. It has no practical benefit whatsoever in the activities to be effectively managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1583	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4079]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1599	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1608	The Committee is essentially in favour of the Government's proposals, which will include more in VAT legislation, but in such a way that the main changes are low in value added tax and fully deducted from VAT for museums and others in the field of culture and sport. Overall, this represents an estimated 335 million. kr annually for parts of the cultural and sporting sector. The setting contains some minority suggestions and comments that I believe others will explain. But I am pleased that the legislative proposal itself brings together quite broad support in the Storting, from the government parties, the Right and Christian People's Party, and on some points also the Left. More than 150 countries have VAT. In Norway, VAT revenue amounts to around 190 billion. kr in the year’s budget and is therefore one of the largest contributions to the financing of the welfare schemes. The majority of the Committee considers that a broadest possible basis for the scope of VAT is generally desirable, including: in order to minimise administrative costs. Cultural change is a simplification for many cultural institutions. This is an area characterised by complex VAT legislation with many exceptions. In the past, for example: many museums had to break up accounts because some of the activities, such as kiosks, have been subject to fees, while the rest have not been. Now we clean this up. Thus, many museums can report more effectively within one and the same financial statements. In addition, there is a significant gain through the right to deduct input VAT. I expect this win to benefit the audience, either through cheaper tickets or higher quality. The new scheme is becoming attractive to many, and many therefore want to enter the new system. Many have asked questions about whether museums have to charge input money to get in. Those in doubt should contact their local tax office. However, there is only one limit on the amount of registration in the VAT register. Therefore, all revenue from turnover governed by the law is counted as long as the revenue is real and not merely of a symbolic nature. It is not proposed that the placing on the market of tickets be assessed in isolation. On the other hand, in favour of a zero exit rate, with a full deduction of input, the VAT system would break as it was built up, and could make it easier for the changes to conflict with State aid legislation under the EEA Agreement. In the sport sector, it is envisaged that voluntary action should be protected and that the new system should cover only the top divisions of football and ice hockey for men. It is also proposed to clarify that the turnover and rental of the right to use sportsmen is subject to a fee of 25 pst. Here, too, the voluntary part of the sport is protected, i.e. sports, where the voluntary effort is at least 80 pst. of the total offer. Questions have been asked about this requirement. To that I would say that this is only about the purchase and sale of players. With the exception of public activities, industrial activities are also required in order to be registered in the VAT Register. Thus, voluntary effort requirements are only relevant where voluntary sports are traded, for example. football players in the industry. The Ministry of Sport argues that sports laws have only exceptionally placed on the market such rights to the extent that the general condition of the industry will be fulfilled’. Thus, sports activities which do not transfer such rights into industry must not comply with this requirement. I think it's an important clarification. Some words about concrete assessments that have been made: the Training Association thought that training centres would not benefit from becoming part of the new system, and the government thus ended up not proposing to include them. The Guide Association also objected to becoming part of the VAT system, and therefore guidance services are not included in the scheme in 2010. The government will further assess the state budget situation for 2011. There will be a permanent framework for VAT compensation for investment in civil engineering in the field of sport. This scheme becomes simple and unbureaucratic, is intended to apply from 1 January 2010, and shall apply to sports teams receiving games. With this proposal, I hope we will achieve a better regulation. I also think it is important what the majority acknowledges in the vote, that the legislative changes cannot solve all of the demarcation issues, but that a certain part of such a problem is a natural consequence of the fact that the VAT system has more rates at political request and that not everyone is subject to VAT. I think the system is going to be much better than it has been, and I also refer to the significant economic gain that will benefit many here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1629	The importance of good and predictable frameworks is everything, and it is important for the industry. It is to ensure as much living cultural and sporting life as possible. The proposals of the Government Parties involve an unnecessarily complex system which can also help to provide a worse framework for the industry. My view is that the cultural and sports sector will be better served by a more predictable and streamlined system. I believe that Stortinget should be presented with a whole new case to make changes in this field better for the industry. The total added value expenditure of the voluntary sector will depend entirely on the definition of the sector. The current knowledge base is not sufficiently precise to allow reliable estimation to be made. The entire Freewill Norway is united in its claim for an exemption from VAT. It is a better system than direct grants, the industry also believes. The submissions of the Government Parties are significantly less extensive than the Committee on Culture's proposal. That's what the government was supposed to listen to, that's what the government was supposed to take on board. This is unfortunate, as there is something else that has been asking for the wide range of cultural, sporting and voluntary Norway since the introduction of the VAT reform. Value added tax may be a burden on small organisations. Therefore, this scheme must be voluntary for organisations of that type, so that individual organisations can assess for themselves whether it is appropriate in terms of size and scope. I take away from the fact that the government will at all charge taxes in the form of VAT for voluntary activities. Here it's done voluntarily, here it's done, here it's sold lots, and you bake cakes. Yes, the whole municipality of Norway and the whole volunteer work voluntarily in this area. This is unreasonable, therefore the exit VAT rate has to be set at zero. It will provide for an exemption from VAT on culture and sport and voluntary activities, with the exception of value added tax on the purchase of goods and services. The VAT rate on purchases is usually 25 p.m., but lower for some goods and services. I would like to point out that it is a similar arrangement that one has within the bookstore business. So it's going to be equal to zero. But there's a Socialist Left Party that's calling for an increase in book revenue. You see that you're not willing to change anything about ebooks, you signal that you might actually want to go further. We see a trend: the state and the government don't put in place a system without making money on it. A zero-rate system will also clearly make it easier for cultural and sporting life by not billing the VAT on outgoing sales. It is also important that a zero rate will facilitate a lower price level of such activity. In addition, the deduction of input VAT will contribute to a significant reduction in the cost level of such actors. I believe that the government's proposals will not sufficiently contribute to improving the framework conditions for sport, culture and volunteering. The museums currently offering free access to all visitors cannot be registered in the VAT system and thus do not fall under the VAT system, with the consequence that they must start charging. I think the government should be more solution-oriented for these museums, as the free principle has cultural policy reasons that have led to large increases in the number of visits. And this is an important principle, because when the museums offer free visits, they get more visitors, and that's probably exactly what is good cultural policy. User payments are an important element in financing cultural institutions, too, but I think the government could have come up with a better alternative. The Progress Party will closely monitor developments and assess changes in the 2011 national budget if developments are going in the wrong direction. Then I want to promote the proposal of the Progress Party and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1659	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1662	First, I would like to address proposal No. 3, which I have promoted in this matter. This case is partly about Freedom Norway, but it is much more about professional culture Norway and sports Norway. The right has a slightly different approach to the matter than the representative of the Progress Party, who I feel strongly perhaps is more involved in the volunteer trade, a matter that was adopted a while ago. The right hand side and the Advance Party had a common approach to the matter. This concerns, among other things: providing leadership for the government now to do with VAT compensation for sports facilities, where private sports teams and municipalities, which build a sports hall, a football court, a handball court, in the case of VAT, are equated. It's high time, it should have been done a lot before. Then, on the right, we have problematised some of what we want to criticise the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. Because there are no limits to how creative the Ministry of Finance can be when it comes to finding good arguments for policy action as well. This should also be possible with regard to what the museums report, the challenge that exists for those who currently have free tickets. There it looks like there's a total lack of will and no imagination. The right is going to follow that development very closely, and we are going to consider making changes to our alternative government budget in 2011 if developments are going in the wrong direction. The cultural policy here is that museums that have worn out poor visiting figures for several years have taken some hold and doubled, perhaps tripled, the visits, and then you don't get to deduct the investments you've made. There is not so much to be done before the Minister of Finance can come up with a good alternative. The Minister of Finance, Ministry and Government also proposes to allow guidance, counselling services, to live gracefully until the revised budget, where one can read between the lines that VAT will also be imposed on them. Guiding has few investments and is a profession characterised by large seasonal fluctuations, very small positions and competition from foreign tour operators, who like to come with cruise ships, and increase the risk of black work if there is a higher price level. That's why we're saying in the right that we don't want to be part of it. We want to add screening services to the difficult list of exceptions that the ministry has added, and we have now mentioned that. What we respond to and are most critical of in the proposal is that it is contrary to the real intention in this case, that the introduction of an extended duty in the field of culture and sport is based on a desire to strengthen the economy and autonomy of voluntary organisations and to reduce bureaucracy – not to increase it. In the field of sports, a lot of the activity is done. VAT regulations have been drawn up for and by professional operators, and there is a high level of responsibility and strict obligations in the legislation. In this context, the Right considers that the government’s proposal to introduce a principle that sports at each VAT task – each time – must demonstrate that 80 pst. efforts are effort-based, i.e. voluntary, breaking the intention of the whole proposal. It makes it more bureaucratic for the part of the amateur activity of which this proposal is still part. The need to keep hourly lists of individual members’ contributions in one year is very bureaucratic. Norway’s Sports Association has come up with a much better alternative. Last: something that the Right follows up in the revised budget, but also in a note asks the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture to look at together when making the guidelines, is the following scenario: Many sports are awaiting revision of the budget today as to whether to make investment decisions. Given that this is a framework-funded item, it means that when you go to the bank today to get a building loan, you think that the VAT compensation is 25 pst. But when you come back three years later, once you have received the building loan approved and are to apply for it to be paid out, the state has in the meantime tended to halve the amount, because it is the framework. This is a serious problem and may put many at risk in terms of reduced investment or deferred investment. Many may also be in a liquidity phase. This must be an unintended consequence. In the opinion of the Right, it is appropriate to follow the model of means of action, which means that the amounts can be transferred to the year after — or the year after.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1681	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1684	The thing we're dealing with today is part of a larger whole. There are questions about VAT in the cultural sector. VAT is one of the most important tools we have to promote cultural life. When a person chooses to have special and favourable rules for VAT on cultural life, it is because it is an area to be promoted. We thus establish such favourable rules. It's important and good. What we're talking about are rules where it's important to have the clearest possible delimitation, so that businesses that don't fall within the cultural concept don't get a favourable tax treatment either. In particular, it is important that the organisations and cultural institutions operating ordinary commercial activities pay ordinary VAT. Thus, there is no distortion of competition in relation to other private activities. For the Centre Party, reimbursement of VAT for voluntary organisations is the most important element of VAT incentives in the cultural sector, to put it directly. That's what we're talking about here, professional culture Norway. In our view, the unpaid activity, which consists of the many tens of thousands of NGOs, is the highest form of professional cultural activity, in the sense that it engages the many and the broad layers in an idealistic way. However, we also have cultural activities that are based on paid activities, and then we are at the heart of the culture tax, which is today's theme. The enterprises that come under the cultural duty have an advantage of requiring only 8 pst. VAT on their cultural income, while they receive reimbursement of 25 pst. VAT on its VAT-based expenditure. Then it is important to have a good delimitation, as I was in the past. In the ‘Cultural VAT’ sector, good demarcation may be difficult. Examples include amusement parks and experience centers, which are unclear concepts. The review in the proposition provides guidance. I would recommend to the ministry and other authorities that they have a strict interpretation of the 'culture' activity, for example, that a concert be the main thing if the tickets are to be given low VAT. In the end, there have been some enquiries to us about the situation of the museums. It's perfectly obvious that the museums should come under the favorable culture tax, it should just be missing. But there are some museums that are designed so that it would be very unfortunate to be practical to introduce input money. Therefore, the entrance fee requirement for the museums should be practised in such a way that input money is not a prerequisite for obtaining VAT deductions where the museum has no natural demarcation but is part of an open area and where the exhibitions are the buildings themselves and the technical facilities located outdoors. In addition, shut-off must be unnatural, as the area is also used for activities other than purely museum activities. Such museums, which in some cases do not have entry fees, have paid off the taxable turnover on ordinary sales. Therefore, a liberal approach to entry fees may be supplemented by a requirement that the place has a certain amount of taxable turnover, so that there is a certain balance between revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1699	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good presentation of the case. For very many sports clubs and cultural institutions, this is a joyous day. It's a happy left part. It could be a happy day for everyone, but unfortunately it isn't. I'll mention someone it won't be a pleasure for. Specifically, this requirement applies to 8 pst. VAT on ticket receipts at sporting events such as men's football, the two top divisions, and men's ice hockey, top division. VAT is required for the purchase, sale and rental of players and the obligation to charge tickets to museums and galleries for their inclusion in the legislation. Also the transitional rules for clubs and layers above the market threshold of 3 million. kr, seems a little thoughtful. I react to the resistance to finding solutions that allow the museums and galleries that currently have free access to this, to continue to do so, and to obtain the right of deduction for use in exhibition activities. Instead, they are now required to introduce a symbolic entry sum of 5 kroner, and then to refund 40 cents to the treasury. The only thing we can achieve is increased bureaucracy and increased administrative costs, both for collection and for cultural institutions. I'm glad that Lundteg took this up in his post. This applies, inter alia, to: Fetsund Lenser in Akershus. In principle, the same VAT applies to tickets for football and ice hockey for men. Firstly, this demarcation seems to be fairly arbitrary and discriminatory, and the transitional arrangements are hopeless. Secondly, the direct consequences of the proposal – also referred to in a letter to the Committee of the Norwegian Sports Associations and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee – are uncertain economic impacts and a significantly more bureaucratic everyday life for sports organisations, which have been discussed by many. I'm familiar with the fact that all football clubs, except one, are going to set up the prices of tickets with at least 8 pst. as a result of the decisions taken in this Chamber today. This is, after my and the Left's view, very unfortunate. Many clubs are in a stressed economic situation, and an increase in prices will not lead to more spectators in the fights. So to a slightly debated side-effect of the regulatory changes that are now being introduced, namely 25 pst. VAT on the purchase, sale and rental of players. This confronts us with a number of unresolved questions that I hope the Minister of Finance will be able to settle in his forthcoming speech. This might have been somewhat curative if Norwegian football clubs were exclusively owned by Norwegian players who only switched clubs in Norway, and if it was the clubs that owned all the players. But it's not like that. Therefore, the whole idea of VAT on the purchase and sale of players is unlikely to be in line with EEA legislation. At least it opens up a number of issues relating to the purchase, sale and rental of cross-border players, which have not been discussed at all, either in the suspension or in Chapter 8 of the Proposition, which addresses the legislative changes related to the EEA Agreement. My first question to the Council of State is whether there are any other countries to which you can refer, which have VAT on the purchase and sale of players, and whether the government can ensure that this is within the EEA legislation. Does he think, in that case, that a strange VAT will lead to more or less foreign players in Norway? Besides, today's ownership of players is a relative size. Many players are owned partly by clubs, partly by investment companies, partly by individuals and sometimes by supporters. Here there are a number of bounding areas. If e.g. The gambling gaglan – which is certainly not part of the VAT system – owns a player, and this player is sold or rented to another club, how does the government council see that the value added tax settlement is going to take place? What about players who are partly owned by clubs, partly by investment companies and partly by themselves – how should this settlement take place? What about clubs that have agreed to share in the resale of players, which is currently the most common rule – should VAT be calculated on this share and, where appropriate, when should this be done? And what about the compensation legislation for young players – are VAT to be calculated on the compensation paid by large clubs less during the transition for young players, even if these are in principle free of charge? Is this a matter that the ministry has assessed? Finally, I take up the Left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1725	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to. So it's Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen, who might answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1730	I think it's going to be a relatively demanding task to now, on the stand, answer all the questions that the representative Tenden had. But what I can promise is that if the conversion we're doing now leads to what we call unintended effects, it's clear that you have to get back to it – in case that happens. I'll follow closely, to say it like this. It is an important matter that we are dealing with here, because with the conversion that Stortinget is likely to join later today, we get a VAT system for that part of the business in Norway that, in sum, gives a not insignificant handshake to those who will be covered by this legislation. It is within the proposal that those in that position will be relieved by some 330 million. kr. It is not an immaterial contribution to many of the establishments that are now subject to VAT. In general, it is the way – and I am the first to admit it – to introduce new groups and new businesses into the VAT system at different rates than the general rate, obviously making the VAT system more complicated. It also makes it more demanding to find good demarcation rules. That means that if things happen here that you didn't expect, you have to get back to it. In general, of course, it would have been much easier to have a general VAT system, and so far have been done with it. This is true in this area, and it is true in other areas, as we have also discussed earlier in this season — to use that expression — that by having graduated rates, new issues of demarcation arise. There are two basic aspects of accessing the VAT system. One is that you have to have a turnover in order to be subject to a tax obligation. That means there are some rules. There is a general rule to have at least NOK 50000 on the market – NOK 140 000 for non-profit and charitable organisations – but you need to have a turnover in order to be able to get a deduction from VAT at all. I think that is a good principle. You have to have something to subtract to get something back, to use a more popular expression. The second basic element for entering the VAT register is the pursuit of industrial activities. I think it's going to be very difficult if you want to deviate from the two basic principles to get into the VAT system. There must be a requirement for turnover at the bottom. This matter has been investigated and heard. I believe that we have all come up with good proposals. It is also worth stressing, in relation to volunteering, that there are already simple rules in the system and one does not propose any changes to it. Then I want to make just a few comments about the sport. There's a big element of volunteering, which most of us are aware of, and have been on. Since, after the consultation round, the Ministry decided to continue the exemption for VAT on training, it is consistent with the input from the Sports Association and the Sports Organisations, because the introduction of such a VAT obligation would make the legislation more complicated. With regard to the revision of the national budget, a new framework system for VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities, it shall apply from 1 January of this year and shall cover, with the exception of municipalities, county councils and local authorities, all who fulfil the conditions for the receipt of the funds. The scheme is application-based, and it will be the annual allocation that will determine the number of beneficiaries and the amount each receives. This will be an amount you will have to assess in relation to each year's government budget. It's hard for me now to say something about what it's going to be, but the 50 million. of course, the proposed kr is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1753	The conclusion of the Minister of Finance's contributions was a good thing, because that's exactly what I was going to address. I ask the Minister of Finance to get involved in the situation of a sports team. For example, in my region, Haugesund sports team, we have to build an indoor recreational stadium. There are very few in Norway who do. It's a heavy cost, and the VAT refund is pretty big. They are now getting full funding, but it requires 25 pst. VAT compensation. What is then the challenge, not just for HIL, but for all those who have large investments in the future, is that the VAT compensation with which they then finance the project jumps to the bank, is an uncertain factor – what should really be a safe factor. I agree with the Minister of Finance that it must of course be decided from budget to budget. Right, this increases by 50 pst. in its alternative budget in relation to the Government's budget. But my point is that it has to be possible to transfer the amounts to next year, and I think the Minister of Finance has to take that with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1764	I think I should give a short answer, and that is that I have remembered what Mr. Kambe is saying. What is important here is that a good and flexible system should be established and, of course, the system should work as intended, namely that VAT compensation should be granted within a given framework of the State budget. And then we'll see what the concrete regulation around it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1771	I asked a number of questions about the purchase and sale of the rental of players. How has the Government assessed it against the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1776	I would like to ask for permission to come back to that – if necessary in a written reply to the representative Tenden. In general, and so far with a little glimmer in my eye, I have a great sense of getting more Norwegian players in the top divisions in Norway. It's probably with me as with many others, that we're holding on to a particular football game, and building up good Norwegian players from the ground up, I think it's a good principle. It was a bit on the side of the case, but it was good to have it said!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1783	I will not ask any more about the EEA Agreement now. I mentioned Fetsund Lenser in my post. The director there, central party politician Anna Kristine Jahr Røine, has crunched opinions about the culture mom. As it is today, the lenses are an open area, and she says that now the reason must prevail, and that this is 'heavy in the hat'. What comments does the Minister of Finance have on this? Is this something he'll look at, so there can be more viable relationships for Fetsund Lenser?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1790	As I said in my post, it is important that one does not deviate from the requirement of turnover in order to get into the VAT system. It is absolutely fundamental and comprehensive in the VAT system. Then it is that if Fetsund Lenser or others have acquisitions in other parts of the business in the same situation – because I expect they have income from other parts of the business – it is already covered by the VAT law. One in line with the general legislation will have the right to deduct from that part of the activity. In the case of tickets, and in the case of those relating to them, it is necessary to base this essential requirement on a certain turnover in order to obtain the right to deduct.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1797	In my post, I had a small point that applied to VAT on translation services. I think that the ministry has relatively exemplaryally addressed the hearing opinions that have come, and has made remarkable many changes after a hearing to be the Ministry of Finance. It's a hole that's left, in my view, and it's VAT on redirection services. The Minister of Finance writes to the Committee that VAT exemptions are introduced, so you have to pay them from 1 July. So it's like this is an industry that has big challenges. We see how travel life is going, which has great challenges in terms of the price of the crown, and cancellations. Norwegian travel lives need better incentives, not uncertainties. That is why the Right today is promoting a proposal that compensates for it. What does the Minister of Finance think about assessing this in relation to the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1806	Initially, the Ministry of Finance is a proper and proper department. In contrast to what many may think, we also listen to people when there are good suggestions, and there was good input in the hearing that the ministry has taken into account, among other things. in the area currently mentioned by the representative Kambe. Then I can give no other answer now than that I can bring along what the representative says, so that we can also assess this in relation to budgets coming. But I notice the representative's commitment to the tourism industry, and it's an important moment that the Minister of Finance will also pay attention to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1813	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1818	First of all, it's nice to hear a party representative who now speaks for free culture, not the principle of self-sufficiency. That's very good. Questions have been raised about this with museums and entrance fees. Now it is true that there is only one limit of the amount recorded in the VAT register and all revenue from turnover covered by the law is counted. It is not that tickets are explicitly taken as a separate assessment, nor in the case of Fetsund Lenser. Fetsund Lenser is one of the ten national technical industrial museums that have enjoyed much of this government's increased investment in just the ten industrial museums. Common to almost all ten of them is that there are museums that have large outdoor areas. Another common feature is that they also have a large activity not directly related to the museum bit itself, typically activities related to outdoor theatres, car exhibitions, rental of premises, etc. which also has an income page that allows easier access to the scheme. So, after my little brother-in-law research among the ten national technical industrial museums, there are signals that most of them will have income pages other than tickets that will still meet the turnover requirement of the system. In this way, when the system is implemented, we get to evaluate whether it's correct or not. However, when introducing new schemes, it is nevertheless important to have an alert look at how it turns out when starting to practise the tax system, and to be open to adjustments in terms of unforeseen results of what we are now introducing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1828	I think it's an important point in this debate, which has been both interesting and good, that those who serve to get into the VAT system are those who have relatively high turnovers in the cultural and sporting sectors, in other words, the most professional part of it, while volunteering is characterized by less investment, less maintenance costs and that kind of thing. Therefore, it is protected, while the professional part is covered by it. I think that's important and good. It has been said earlier in the debate that this will create a worse framework for sport and culture. I think it is important to remember that the overall impact of the changes that are being made will provide an estimated 335 million. kr more this year for, among others. museums, top-notch sports and others — most of it will be the museums that will benefit; around an estimated 235 million. SEK, 90 million. kr more for top sport and 10 mill. kr for others. Overall, I think it seems very clear that this gives better conditions for those who join. The public debate on this is largely about the boundaries, who comes in, and who does not. Now it is difficult to imagine a VAT system that still needs many exceptions, which will have three different rates, and where there will be no demarcation problem. But I'm convinced that the system will be better than before. There will be fewer demarcation problems and clearer and simpler regulation to manage. Then it's also so that if the perfect is to be the good enemy, I think we'll stand on the spot resting. I have reacted a little to the fact that some of those who come into the new system are considering increasing ticket prices. So now it's going to be 8 pst. VAT on income and 25 pst. Subtractions come out well of most of them. Like us, for example. In the city, football and ice hockey are estimated to have 90 million. kr more, or get 90 million. kr better out than before, and then it would be strange if the ticket prices went up. On the contrary, I believe that this benefit should benefit the public, either through lower prices or higher quality. Finally, in the case of the 80 p.m. requirement for volunteering, I would like to stress – as the Council of State said – that it is important that this does not have unintended consequences. But I would also like to repeat what I said in my main post, that this is about the purchase and sale of players in business, and that sports teams that do not market such rights in business must not comply with that requirement. I think again there's an important clarification that can help make this system as smooth as it can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1841	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[See page 4085]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1857	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1866	Today, the size of the money deals with various minor changes in tax legislation. Most of these cases are very much in agreement in the Committee, as they are minor, technical changes, simplifications or proposals that are not controversial. These are adopted unanimously today. But at one point there is disagreement. I concentrate in this article on explaining the views of the government parties on the point in the proposal for amendments to the shipping tax where there is some disagreement in the committee. The Government published on 26 March this year its proposals for amendments to the shipping tax system as a result of the Supreme Court judgment on shipping tax and the Constitution. The government’s view is that the tax exemption for new maritime revenue from 2007 onwards is to be continued. This view is supported by the majority of the Committee. It is important to support the development of the Norwegian maritime industries and to ensure good framework conditions for them, so that industry is competitive in an international market. Furthermore, the proposal allows companies with latent tax liabilities to choose between a voluntary settlement arrangement of the liabilities with moderate taxation and an adjusted base arrangement from before 2007. The change in the basic scheme implies a new order of business so that the old, untaxed income from before 2007 is deemed to be withdrawn from the company before any other capital. So the issue of the slightly more controversial environmental fund scheme. Following the presentation by the Government of the amendments to the shipping tax system and during the examination by the Financial Committee of the matter, a number of speakers expressed their wish, inter alia. Norway’s Shipowners’ Association on further adjustments to the settlement mechanism in the proposed new transitional rules. The proposal in the proposal implies that the benefit calculated as of 1 January 2007 will be reduced by the entire environmental fund third part as of 1 January 2007. This amount is taxed by 10 pst. and distributed over the three years of income, from 2010 to 2012. As a result, the total untaxed income of the companies as of 1 January 2007, based on accounting values, is taxed at around 6,7 pst. In addition, the Shipowners’ Association proposes to make an additional deduction corresponding to the costs of environmental measures implemented or agreed before 26 March 2010 — a view supported by the opposition. The members of the government parties have also considered this proposal, but have come to the conclusion that we will not support this solution. Firstly, the Environment Fund scheme was an alleviating element of the transitional rules for the conversion of the shipping tax system, which was adopted in 2007. Once the tightening element of the scheme has been removed, there is no basis for maintaining the smoothing. Secondly, the settlement mechanism currently proposed by the government is a new arrangement for the transition from a latent tax regime for which the tax liability was only triggered by the distribution or withdrawal of the scheme to a final exemption for shipping revenue. The settlement mechanism is a voluntary offer to the shipping companies for a favourable settlement of the previously accumulated tax liabilities. The new proposed settlement mechanism implies that the entire environmental fund third part of the latent tax liabilities will be surrendered before 2007 without requiring environmental measures already implemented or agreed upon. In any case, the shipowners who opt for the new settlement mechanism will be significantly better than after the 2007 transitional arrangement. This applies both to those who have and to those who have not undertaken or agreed on environmental measures. Thirdly, it can be pointed out that the environmental action requirements of the environmental fund scheme, as designed and subsequently adjusted, were very liberal in terms of the criteria for what could be considered as environmental measures. Nor was there any deadline attached to the measures, and it is therefore highly likely that the environmental measures implemented or agreed are economically viable and, in all material respects, would have been implemented. As we see it, there are insufficient reasons why companies that have undertaken to implement or agree on environmental measures in addition to the cancellation of the environmental fund third part will receive an additional discount for environmental measures in the settlement system, as proposed by the Shipowners’ Association. If this were to be the case, one had to consider a solution where the tax rate in the settlement scheme was set higher than 10 pst. for all shipping companies, then deducting the companies which made the investments in order to maintain the proceeds of more than 2 billion. kr over three years. However, the overall tax burden on industry would have been the same with such a change, but our view is that the distribution of the burden between shipping companies would have changed on a basis that does not appear to be reasonable. So we think it's most right to stand by the government's proposed solution. Long-termity, predictability and stability have been important to us in this assessment. Fourthly, a problem related to ESA has been outlined, which will now examine and see if the settlement mechanism can be too favourable, in order to create new uncertainties as to whether the legal state aid ceiling has been exceeded. We want to avoid such uncertainty. The majority's overall assessment is therefore that we support the government's proposal. Overall, we believe it is a good and forward-looking solution package that finally ends this chapter in history, so that we can focus on the future rather than on the past. The minority's proposal, I assume, will explain to the minority itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1896	The review of the revised budget shall, in the view of the Progress Party, be precisely that: a revision of the budget. That's a long way to go, too, what the government has done. There are some proposals from other parties here that we basically agree on – proposals that we have promoted in our alternative state budget – but since this is a revision, we do not support them here. Norwegian maritime industry employs 100 000 people in Norway and creates values for over 100 billion. kr. The maritime industry cluster in Norway is complete and characterised by extensive cooperation and interdependence between shipping companies, yards, equipment manufacturers and service providers. The shipping companies are the engine of the maritime cluster. Norwegian shipping companies are behind 80 pst. of the activity in Norwegian shipyards. Internationally competitive framework conditions for shipping companies are therefore essential to ensure operation and ownership in and from Norway. In the context of the new shipping tax system from 2007, transitional rules were proposed from the old shipping tax system, which became known as non-constitutional by the High Court on 12 February 2010. The decision of the Supreme Court set aside the decisions of the Government Parties concerning new transitional rules. The Government therefore proposes a settlement mechanism whereby shipping companies can choose a final tax. The alternative is a so-called basic scheme, in accordance with the model of the scheme introduced in 1996, with a capping tax for previously earned income, but with the difference that the basic scheme has been substantially tightened by the introduction of a sequence rule, the introduction of a minimum capital requirement and the liquidation of the possibility of tax exemptions through the EGF. The arrangements for the settlement mechanism are unfairly limited to the companies that have made and adopted environmental investments during the period. The government’s proposals affect the companies that chose to invest in Norway twice. This is done only by forcing a one-off settlement of the 1996 mechanism and, secondly, by making the settlement mechanism equivalent to non-environmental companies that have carried out such operations. As a result, companies that have made environmental investments are subject to a higher overall burden. This unfairness of the one-off settlement must be removed. This can be done by designing a settlement mechanism that deducts environmental measures from the outlined settlement mechanism. A modified deduction is proposed in order to compensate for the unfairness to companies that have made environmental investments. It is natural to credit all environmental measures decided and implemented on both existing ships and ships under construction, even if the measure has not yet been verified by an approved class society. The intention of the proposal to deduct environmental measures should be to ensure the deduction of irreversible environmental liabilities as of 26 March 2010 incurred by the companies. The companies have undertaken a financial commitment for decided measures and measures in implementation, even if they have not been delivered. The majority of the Committee appears to argue that these companies should be grateful for having been led by the government into these investments. However, as long as the 2002 settlement mechanism was in force, the companies are not able to dispose of the funds freely. The companies that were loyal and reacted quickly have also helped the government to achieve environmental objectives, and it is unreasonable that they should be punished for it. This applies regardless of whether the investments are profitable or not. Therefore, until the deadline for the submission of the declaration in 2010, companies should be allowed the necessary verification and approval of those measures with a view to deducting the one-off settlement. Deduction of environmental measures in the management of income from the settlement account in 2010 to 2012 will ensure equal treatment between companies that do not have and those that have made environmental investments. I'm dealing with the proposals we're co-sponsors of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1916	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1919	I would like to stress that the revision is not a new budget. We believe that we have been reasonably restrained by proposals, and there are a number of proposals that we could of course also have supported. I had a little fun on Sunday. I sat and listened to the Sunday post at NRK P2, I think it's called. There was an SV who reported on how bad it was with the environmental policy of the Progress Party and the Right Party, while I sat down and read about the shipping tax directly punishing the shipping companies that were loyal to the government and quickly started environmental investments. The shipping tax has been covered quite well by both the case rapporteur and previous speakers. We understand very well that the government spent some time evaluating our proposal. It took a very long time for us to get a response from the Council of State, and we wondered how much a proposal to remove the disadvantage that is now being inflicted on those who have made the environmental investment would actually cost. So it's not going to cost more than 37.5 million. kr in the year for three years to come if you follow the government's assumption that half of the companies are involved in the voluntary scheme. We think it would have been a very important signal to the industry, not least that those who were very loyal and made environmental investments should not come out worse. The shipping industry is a very important business cluster. It is very important to include it in order to produce environmental investments in shipping. We think the government would earn that in the long run. The proposal lies there, and it is not yet too late to turn around. So to a couple of other things that we've taken up in the revised. We're going in to get to BSU. This is because the Financial Supervisory Board issued new advice to the financial institutions on housing loans in March, that there should be a minimum of 10 pst. equity on the purchase of dwellings. That is a reasonable requirement. It should be equity when buying a dwelling, but then we believe that youth should also be stimulated to save. We propose to both raise the ceiling of the scheme, increase the annual savings and increase the age to improve the scheme for young people. In addition, we suggest that the tax FUNN be improved by taking it back to the way it was under the Bondevik II government. We have seen, not in recent years, but in the beginning of the period of the red-green government, a number of attempts to tighten up the tax and red tape system. The SSB had a review in report No. 2 in 2008 which was very good for SkattenFUNN. There is a mechanism that provides good effect and a lot of innovation for each krona that the state sends in, and there should be no reason not to improve the scheme, especially now with the crisis in Europe. Our business life really has only one way to meet it, and it's becoming more innovative and focusing more on research and development and knowledge over time. Real interest rate taxation for small power plants is another important issue. Small power has a significant potential for investment around District Norway, and raising the base rate of taxation to cover the entire small power segment, up to 10 MW or 11000 kVA, we believe is an important measure to stimulate investment in small power. Then we have a number of other things that are recognizable and that are repeated: the employer’s fee for apprentices gets half the rate, we remove the inheritance fee – we think it’s important to start a generational shift in Norwegian business – we suggest that the savings on individual pension savings are raised to NOK 40,000, and not least that you go through the pensions now, so that you get symmetry between payments and payments. Finally, a little drag for the government. It removes the possibility of providing VAT compensation tasks on paper. We agree. I guess it's time. The gain is referred to as significant for the tax haven, but it has not even been taken for granted to calculate the amount of the gain, and no assessment is made of who can benefit from the gain. So there's no pressure on the Tax Agency to take out the efficiency gain. That's what we think we say a lot about how the government handles the public agencies. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Right and the proposals with the Right co-rapporteur, which have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1942	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1945	The shipping industry is an important industry in Norway. That's how it has been, that's how it is, and that's how it will be. When the Central Party was the driver of the 1996 shipping tax system, it was because we asked the question: What is Norway without shipping? We were then told that we had to create a tax regime for shipping that was such that it could compete and evolve in a good way, and where one could take the necessary forward-looking considerations into account. The 1996 shipping tax was also a success. Significant changes have been made in several areas within the shipping industry. Much remains, but one of the important changes in the environmental field is that one was gradually regulated for the treatment of ballast water – one of the major points raised in the 1990s, because if it does not purify ballast water, organisms spread over the globe, leading to major changes in the eco-balance, with the significant negative consequences it has. It is an area where environmental investment produces good results. The debate on the shipping tax has, in my opinion, been unnecessarily complicated. The concepts that have been used have helped the debate to become more complicated and less open to most people than should have been the situation. For example, terms such as the latent tax liability — it is still in use — have been used on the company tax scheme of 1996. In a sense, there is no error in the concept of ‘low tax liability’ — only that the practical, popular content of it was such that it was tax exemption if one fulfilled certain obligations. Those liabilities were such that if one met them throughout the period, there was a tax exemption throughout the period, and there was a sail that determined whether one would be within the liabilities, and thus within the tax exemption, or not. What we are now discussing is a transition from a shipping tax scheme with obligations – because that is the simple concept – to the tax exemption to the current full tax exemption scheme for shipping revenue. That's the nucleus. The arrangement proposed by the government is a settlement arrangement that is a voluntary offer. Shipowners within the 1996 arrangement may pay off their liabilities by paying a tax. As I have said before, it is entirely in line with the intention of 1996. It makes sense and has the full support of the Central Party and the Maritime Government now. One can discuss the tax rate, the tax burden to get rid of those obligations, but there is another discussion, and the government parties are united behind the government's balance of the rate chosen. However, I would just like to point out one thing that has not been discussed now, either to a particular extent in the past. It is that we now have a shipping tax scheme that does not have liabilities. This means that shipowners’ incomes are not taxed, and shipowners’ incomes can be introduced to investments in the mainland through different changes in companies and where they compete with capital which is taxed on business. This is a big problem and is going to be a big challenge. Therefore, the old shipping tax scheme of 1996 was better because it ensured the tax exemption to activities defined as shipping related. This is a theme that we'll probably meet a lot in the future. There is a system that offers unequal conditions of competition for investments in areas where taxed and non-taxed capital will compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1960	In principle, there should be small adjustments to the state budget and the tax structure that we are going to discuss here, with the exception of the shipping tax, where a scarce majority in the Supreme Court – I stress a scarce majority – has unfortunately interpreted the Constitution differently from what the government has done. But just because revision is going to be an adjustment, it might be particularly interesting to look at what comes from suggestions from the different parties. The Progress Party has chosen to deal with the revision of the budget we are talking about, and has not put in particular many proposals, while other parties have chosen to go harder to work. With regard to the shipping tax, we agree with what the rapporteur has presented. I've been on maternity leave lately, and there's a couple of things that have happened around the world that it's been particularly interesting to follow. It's like things that you're looking at are very big, maybe a little less when you get outside for a little while, especially this house. The financial crisis and the situation of ordinary employees around Europe are obviously a major issue, which I have followed. Another important event is that a documentation has been provided that is very thorough, of how important it is with small social differences in a country in order for the country to be good at living in for all its inhabitants, not just those who are at the top. The book documenting this is called ‘The Spirit Level: Why Equality is Better for Everyone’. What is documented here is that small differences give higher life expectancy – not only for those who are on the bench, but also for those who are on the top. It gives less physical and mental health problems to the population, fewer teenage pregnancies, better gender equality, better trust that is also crucial for crime statistics, etc. So, most of it is related to social differences and how large they are in a country. Why do I mention this in this debate? I'm going to talk more about it in the course of the week, I expect, but in this debate it's also interesting. If we look at what proposals the various parties have found that they think it is right to promote in the context of the revision of the budget, and where they have probably made a stronger priority than they would otherwise have done, if they were to take up this issue in its full scope, we can see that for example. the lot Right wants increased taxation of AFP pensioners – i.e. the labourers. We can see that the Right and the Left want to strip schoolchildren in Norway of a system that is becoming more and more popular: free fruit and green. Education and nutrition are interrelated, and there are schoolchildren who are very aware of it. In particular, children and young people who come from less resource-intensive homes may benefit in particular from this. The right and left also want to remove the inheritance fee completely, which is a gift package for those who have the most. We also know a lot about that. Right, Christian People's Party and Left want to stimulate an increase in individual pension savings. There is also something that is mainly used by those who are tallest on the ladder. The left has a number of suggestions, and a few of them I want to make a visit. One is that you want to give tax deductions for the choice of private health institutions. So that means that you want to give private priority to politicians to a greater degree than today. You want to let the market run more and let the politicians rule less. What we know is that the differences are increasing in society. I just want to refer to the debate that has been taking place in the media over the past few weeks, precisely on social health differences – how those who have the most and are the most good at using lawyers, etc., are prioritised in today's healthcare system, with the injustices it brings. The second proposal is a reduction in the deduction of the trade union quota. If we look at it together with the fact that the Left has also opposed proposals that the government has had in the social dumping field, it says something about the direction the Party wants to move in. That's exactly the opposite direction of it, for example. SV wants to move in. I would like to give a special warning against this, given the current situation in Europe, with the financial crisis, increased mobility and pressure on ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e1983	I can assure the representative, Thorkildsen, that even within these walls, there has been some attention in the last six months to the financial crisis and its consequences. But I agree that being outside the house here can give a little better perspectives sometimes than if you're just in here, but luckily it's going to be possible to combine this. The representative of Thorkildsen was concerned with the opposition's proposals, which she felt gave direction to the opposition's policy in which she strongly disagreed. With regard to the alternative proposals of the Christian People's Party, I might recall that the individual pension saving scheme is not used only by the high-wages. The private proposal we had for treatment, at least trying to get treatment, just showed that it is those who have general income, and women to a greater extent, who use it. At least for my own part, I don't want to use it as an argument that it's the high pay you've seen in that way. If she had moved on to the Christian People's Party proposal, she would, among other things, also seen that our three proposals are aimed at strengthening the voluntary sector in Norwegian society. If I am convinced that contributing to a better society, it is a civil sector – a third sector – that is strong and is also treated in a fair and proper way from the public. We also have a wide range of proposals in the area of taxation and taxation, which provide a better and greener profile than the government proposes. It should also be in line with the quality of life society that I realized Thorkildsen was concerned about. With regard to the shipping tax, which Per Olaf Lundtigen defined as a ‘success’ when it came in 1996, and which the representative must also have all the honour of being one of the leaders, it is not the other thing to say — when the case is referred to by the case-rapporteur as he does — that part of the reason why we have this today is that the government has taken a solid defeat by the fact that the Supreme Court has set aside the majority that was warned here a few years ago. That's the background of being there today. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have not put in any money to compensate the shipping companies that have made environmental investments, but we are actually giving an invitation to the majority with the following proposals: «The government is asked to make proposals for amendments to the tax law that involve deduction so that companies that have made environmental investments do not receive a higher total burden than companies that have not made such investments.» It is a proposal that I believe the government parties should vote for, because it is a proposal that gives justice to those who have made these environmental investments. I think everyone should be interested in that. With this I address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2006	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposals that have been referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2009	The left has an overall objective of changing the entire tax and tax system in a greener and more entrepreneurial direction. Choosing environmentally friendly solutions must be more profitable and it must be more attractive to start, operate and own Norwegian enterprises and create new Norwegian jobs. Therefore, the Left is proposing to increase the fees on environmentally hostile activities throughout the process, and we are proposing a number of reliefs for businesses and to create jobs – a tax shift from red to green, which I expect the SV representative would support – if she is still in the room. In this setting, Mr Left's wish to distort the tax system is as follows: we propose to increase the depreciation rates, also a separate depreciation rate on green investment – as we debated earlier today. We are proposing improvements to the tax FUNN system, which was also in the right. We propose to remove the inheritance fee, which was also covered by SV. We'll have that debate on Friday. We will also remove the employer’s fee for new apprentices. We propose to increase the level of pay obligations both in general and for non-governmental organisations in particular. We propose that it be more profitable to buy shares in our own company, and we propose to reintroduce tax exemptions for treatment costs paid by employers in order to get their own sick employees back to work more quickly. We also propose more measures to stimulate increased savings, both by strengthening the BSU system, so that more young people are better equipped to meet the entry of an increasingly narrow housing market, and by increasing the annual savings in individual pension schemes, so that more people can be stimulated to save on their own pensions. We also propose a VAT reform to stimulate a healthier way of life – the representative of SV notices – and thus in the long term save public over-costs of lifestyle diseases due to improper diet. In concrete terms, the Left proposes removing VAT on fresh fruit and vegetables and introducing full VAT – 25 pst. – on soda and other highly sugary drinks. In order to finance such a conversion, the overall food tax must also be raised by one percentage point. We believe that this is far more targeted than law-enforcement for municipalities to distribute half a banana daily to each student. In particular, I would like to address a problem that is ongoing from the Left in this setting, namely the conditions for the self-employed. Earlier this year, the Left has promoted its own proposal for a full review of the conditions and conditions of the self-employed. I, the undersigned and Trine Skei Grande went on trains on 1 May under a parole of better rights for the self-employed. In this setting, we're going to follow this up on some central points. We propose to reverse the increase in the social security contributions for the self-employed who the government made to finance the improvement made by the maternity rights, a scheme that has so far been profitable for the country. We propose to equalise the tax conditions relating to the maximum amount of savings in compulsory occupational pensions and to strengthen the social rights associated with sickness during pregnancy and care for own children, and last but not least we take a first step towards equality between self-employed and ‘common’ workers in the case of sickness benefits under own illness. As a first step up towards full equality, the Left proposes to increase the level of compensation after 16 days from 65 pst. to 80 pst. Finally, the left will continue to work to ensure that self-employed workers are also included in the Community. In this way, I will take up all the suggestions made by the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2026	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2029	This is a kind of summary report for some tax matters. As several speakers have said, a few more general debate on the revised national budget will take place in connection with the conclusion of the Stortinge before the holiday on Friday. I would like to add some comments to the proposal on changes in the shipping tax, or what it was necessary to do to clarify the legal situation following the Supreme Court ruling that came earlier this year. What's important, and as I think it's important to establish, is that one through this somehow brings the matter to an end. I would like to stress the fact that, through the decision that the Stortinget is likely to take today, one will ensure good and long-term framework conditions for Norwegian shipping and shipping by the fact that the tax exemption made in 2007 stands for the future. It's important to underline it, because it's the future that counts in this context as well. However, as a result of the Supreme Court judgment, an important part of the 2007 scheme fell away, and that is the legal status you are now proposing to clarify. The tax exemption is continued and companies with deferred tax or deferred tax liabilities from before 2007 may choose between a voluntary settlement arrangement of the liabilities with a moderate tax and an adjusted base arrangement. My view is that, as a whole, this provides a good and forward-looking system for shipping from Norway. The Environment Fund scheme was and is a easing element of the 2007 transitional regime, and there is no basis for maintaining this element once the tightened element has been removed through the Supreme Court judgment. But in any case, shipping companies are coming out much better now than under the 2007 scheme. Any company that chooses the settlement mechanism is given up to the entire environmental fund and there is no reason for companies that have taken environmental action to receive a discount in addition to the settlement scheme. In other words, one treats the companies equally, and it has been important for the government. In addition, we believe that the requirements imposed on environmental measures are liberal and that environmental measures would probably have been implemented to a large extent in any case. It is unlikely that entirely unprofitable measures have been implemented. An additional deduction for companies that have taken or agreed to implement environmental measures raises the question of additional deductions also for companies that would have done so later, simply assuming that there was no time limit on the scheme itself. In my view, the ministry's view and the majority's view, therefore, all companies should be treated equally by exempting everyone from the environmental fund third part of the settlement system. So I just want to comment on one question that was raised about VAT tasks. It will be a win for both parties. It will also be a win for those who now do not have to deal with paperwork. If you also see this in the context of Altin, which has probably had some problems these days due to a lot of progress, it all means a significant saving and relief for business, and that gain is obviously the result of business. But at the same time, there will also be a gain for the tax haven by getting a simpler system to deal with. I do believe that the resources saved should be used for other good control and efficiency measures within the tax haven. I'm going to promise that there's something to tackle, even if it's a good, effective and up-to-date tax rate. So to this, to get out of politics again and again. In some contexts, I have adhered to a word from the Phantom. It says that sometimes the Phantom leaves the deep woods to walk around the city as a normal man. That's a good word.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2048	It's going to be a string change anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2051	Yeah, that's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2056	I can encourage the Minister of Finance not only to go out into the cities, but also to go out into Coast Norway, where the maritime industries belong. Then he might also hear some other stories about the government's coup of the shipping tax in its time, which is now partially compensated, correctly, after the Supreme Court's wise decision. What we are responding to from the Right concerns the shipping companies that have bitten on the hook, the Ministry of Finance's hook, SV's hook: that if you invested in new ships, new engines, new propellers, new ship design, yes, you would get a third of the costs deducted. A lot of people bit the hook. What the finance minister has done with the new arrangement is simply cutting the string before the fish was on board the boat. Then you have been given life – yes, you can still enjoy yourself, and the shipping companies are still doing well. But you know that when you cut the string, it's still painful. The Minister of Finance has not done a good enough job there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2063	Yes then, it is not that long since I was in Coast Norway, rather in Stavanger, correctly in a city. There is no doubt that this government has an alert eye to what is happening, not least in the workshop industries and in industries linked to the good environment surrounding shipping and the workshop industry. Among other things, a separate package has been promoted in the context of the revised national budget on this industry. I believe that the shipping industry has very good conditions in Norway. The best condition is, of course, that they retain the scheme adopted in 2007 on future tax exemptions. The main reason why we have not chosen to address points of view in the Swedish Shipowners' Association's letter is that we treat all shipping companies in the same way, both those who have made environmental investments and those who have not done so, by taking into account, to a large extent, the environmental fund component of the settlement system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2070	I noticed that the Minister of Finance said in the first case we had to deal with here today that he appreciated representatives from the opposition. Nevertheless, we feel discouraged – all of them – and then the government comes and promotes them. One example of this is the removal of the incineration tax on waste. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, which of the many proposals of the Left does he imagine that he will support in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2077	I have a long seagoing time also in this room, and I have even experienced bourgeois majority governments. So, to the extent that the representative Tende finds comfort in it, we were also often voted down by that majority early in the 1980s. It's probably part of the political reality that a majority votes down a minority, and especially when there are majority governments. However, this does not preclude listening to good suggestions and considering good proposals. I also promised that in a debate we had earlier on the framework conditions for business. Of course, we also consider the proposals from the Left in line with all other good and less good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2082	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2088	This is primarily to respond to some of the claims made by Special Representative Thorkildsen from SV about Right. Yes, the Right wants more individual pension savings. Right also wants to extend the scheme of Housing Saving for Youth, despite the fact that Inga Marte Thorkildsen almost performs a reading from the Ministry of Finance's letter to the Committee and talks about it being the rich who save for their own pension. There are children of the rich, in addition, who have Housing Savings for Youth, as representatives of the Red-Green Government have said several times. For the Right, this is about a general approach to stimulating people to spend their own money. You want people to take responsibility for their own pensions. You want people to take responsibility for their own housing. That's why we're doing some measures in relation to BSU, which simply haven't followed the price increase that has been in recent years, which makes the BSU less and less valuable in the real world than it is on paper. Right votes to take away the fruit and vegetable scheme because we want to spend the money to strengthen the school. SV has the Minister of Knowledge and could have used that money in other ways. The right has e.g. spent money is saved here, for training for teachers and for better recruitment plans for teachers to a significantly greater extent than the SV's own party leaders have the power to do in Knowledge Norway. Thorkildsen is also concerned with this with shipping tax. I just want to use a little bit of simple math, because now we've heard several times from the red-green side that there was a very button decision in the Supreme Court. Well, of eleven pieces, six out of five is one percent of 54,5. It was adopted by an even narrower majority, 51.4 pst. So there was a significantly greater scepticism in the Storting to the shipping tax than it was in the Supreme Court, if you use a percentage calculation. I think that's actually something to bring with it, also for the finance minisitizer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2101	Without extending the debate, the President will recall that a majority is a majority. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4087]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2119	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2128	The proposal of the Christian People's Party representatives has been put forward to improve the framework conditions for small businesses engaged in re-use and repair. The proposal sets out examples of such enterprises, inter alia: bicycle repairers, tailors and shoemakers. Proposalers believe that a review of VAT legislation can help improve the framework conditions for these businesses. It is partly different from both the approach and the justification of the proposal, so that a broad majority of the Committee on Budgets cannot support such a proposal, so, in total, only the proposers themselves support it. The majority consider that it is not appropriate to review the VAT rules in relation to the framework conditions for re-use and repair enterprises. Furthermore, we refer to the Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee on this matter. The proposal is justified, inter alia: in that the amount of waste has increased more than economic growth. But we have to see that increasing the profitability of re-use and repair businesses also has elements in itself in relation to the behaviour of consumers. The majority also suggests that a variety of instruments, such as laws and regulations, taxes, reimbursement and mortgage schemes, sectoral agreements and information measures, and combinations of them all, contribute to providing framework conditions, but also refer to the overall waste policy. This shows that, overall, a wide range of instruments are needed to achieve the objective of reducing waste and increasing re-use, but we believe that VAT legislation is not the right tool in this context. Over the last few years, there have been many good discussions on how to improve waste prevention and recovery. I allow myself to mention some topics that have been discussed. One is to change behaviour and preference on the demand side, for example: by reducing the consumption of resource-intensive products. Another is to change production and design by, for example: using recovered materials, etc. A third element is to make waste look like a commodity. All of these, and of course many more proposals for measures to develop a circular society, are constantly being challenged by the increasing purchasing power. Here we must admit that our Norwegian society is materialistic. If we can recognize that there is an increase in quality of life that is the goal and not an increase in material consumption, we might be able to approach the goal. However, there is another discussion, which is not directly related to this particular case. We are therefore opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2143	The rapporteur presented the view of the majority here. There's just a couple of points I'll get into. It is the review of VAT legislation and industrial activities with a view to improving the framework conditions for those engaged in re-use and repair. The Progress Party is in favour of improving the framework conditions for business by reducing the level of taxation and reducing red tape and business-affecting forms. These costs to business also affect the part engaged in re-use and repair. But I see that it is very difficult to define which activities should be covered by such specific arrangements. Today, extensive repairs are being carried out on cars, motorcycles, bicycles, washing machines, etc., which are currently profitable and, according to the proposal, could be reduced in value added tax. Today, there is also widespread re-use of different products, both through industry and through non-governmental organisations. By implementing changes in the VAT system, the Progress Party is concerned that one shifts the revenue from such sales away from non-governmental organisations operating, among others. with flea market, and over to business-related activities. This could weaken the voluntary work of these organisations. In this context, we will go against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2154	Suggestions from the Christian People's Party are usually well-intentioned and positive. We believe from the Right that using VAT as an instrument for re-use and repair could lead one on wild roads, for they all, most companies could at some point claim that they are engaged in re-use and repair. And it's clear that if we get a general VAT system that facilitates it, creativity probably won't end. As the representative Svendsen said in his post, it's actually a point that very many of these companies are running economically today, and they're running economically because people want to repair their own products rather than buy new ones. So that means there has to be a market. It's a demand not only for the types, but also that the products you want repaired are of such good quality that you get it done. I'm not going to do this much longer. We have a long case list today. Right-wing votes against the proposal in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2163	As others have said, the proposal has a very good intention. For the Central Party's fiscal spokesman, it is particularly encouraging, because the former leader of the Centre Party, Gunnar Stålsett, had a slogan for the Centre Party in the 1970s, which was: growth is not to consume more, but to manage better – a very forward-looking attitude, which, however, encountered considerable resistance, because the core of some activity is to increase consumption, not to reduce consumption, unfortunately. It is sad that we have not come so far in our economic model that we can take greater care of the intention that lies in the vocabulary of Stålsett and in the sayings of the Center Party, or in the proposals of the Christian People's Party here. Curiosity, taking care of and repairing, are very good virtues that should be stimulated. And it's strong to experience when you're now visiting reception facilities for trash, what's coming. It's to those degrees a cross of thought. But there are positive things happening in several places, where considerable re-use work is started. As many people have been involved, there are many tools that can be used. However, we do not support an instrument such as reduced VAT, because in our opinion it is not possible to practice. But it is not least important to ensure that we have a legislation that is such that it is possible in a legal way to repair an item, the shipping if the item is from a few years back, in relation to newer requirements and rules. For example, we have had a discussion about the repair of stoves, where it would not be lawful to repair stoves from a certain period of time. It's suggestions that don't belong in the culture of which the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are hot followers. Finally, I just want to commend the work of the voluntary sector in this area. Examples are the Salvation Army and the Church's City Mission, which help one get this culture into, and there are many who really appreciate it. This is a good proposal, but the proposal is not feasible. That is why we need to focus on other instruments and on a different approach to this, and that is why it is also important that leaders, politically and economically, take the lead and show a view of the future use and throw-off.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2176	There was a majority debate in the previous case. I don't think there's going to be so much discussion if there's any reason to say that there's a small or large minority in this case – or majority for that matter. We get to take note of that from the Christian People's Party. At the same time, we do not escape the fact that the amount of waste is increasing, and it is increasing more than what economic growth is supposed to say in isolation. That means that we can write the Consumer Society – with big F – more than ever. That is why we have tabled this proposal. I see absolutely that there are demarcation problems related to making this a topic within the VAT area, and it is also a sign that those who have expressed their goodwill to the proposal come forward with other good proposals at the next occasion, which, of course, we should gladly support as long as it takes account of the same intention contained in our proposal. What I don't have any particular faith in, which is argued by certain parties, is that this should compete with non-governmental organisations that run the second-hand market, the flea market or what it should be. Then we're talking about a completely different segment and completely different prices. So that's the concern I think you can put away. There will hardly be any challenge compared to what is the real content of the proposal here. But it's very good, as the representative Lundteg said, that there will be a unanimous tribute to the good work volunteer does in this area as well. With this I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2189	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4101]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2207	I would only recommend, on behalf of the Committee, the majority vote and, in the same way, mention the proposal made by the Progress Party as a minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2212	The President can see that there is an attitude, but he can't find a suggestion. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20. [[See page 4101]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2230	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2239	Prop. 104 L for 2009–2010 refers to proposals for changes in the Working Environment Act in connection with temporary additions and the Labour Inspectorate’s competence to impose and adopt individual decisions. I Prop. 104 L lay down the government, among others. emphasis on introducing an employer’s obligation scheme to discuss the use of temporary additions with trustees at least once a year. With this proposal, the government wants to raise awareness of its use of temporary labour. The minority would point out that collective agreements have already been signed after the main agreement in relation to temporary additions that will meet this need. One is afraid of the fact that a directive on discussions once a year will give less flexibility and perhaps prevent a natural discussion on such issues beyond the annual discussions. One also sees that an imposition of additional bureaucratic measures will increase the workload of many enterprises and make it difficult to cope with in an otherwise heavy market. It is unfortunate, especially in today's market with the ongoing financial crisis and difficult conditions for many small businesses, to increase the burden and make it harder for enterprises to acquire the relevant labour force. According to Econ report No. 2009-112, «Econ's summary of the effects of legal regulation on employment protection and working time» developed by the Ministry of Labour is that stronger job protection provides less penetration in the labour market, weaker productivity growth and lower employment among deferred groups, but probably less impact on collective employment. We need to be aware that groups with difficulty in entering the labour market will have better opportunities to try out and gain the necessary experience in the workplace. By making the use of temporary labour more difficult, there is a concern that, for example: people with disabilities, migrant backgrounds and health problems will greatly reduce their chances of experimenting in the workplace. There are many examples of people who have found it difficult to get to work who have gained opportunities through temporary recruitment, where they have been able to practice their knowledge and skills, try out in a social community, and show both themselves and the employer a positive and relevant effort. There are proposals from the Ministry that the Labour Inspectorate should be given authority to oversee the implementation of discussions between employers and trustees on the use of temporary additions. The Labour Inspectorate shall be given the opportunity to use the means available to ensure that discussions are conducted. The ministry thinks there must be power behind the demand to conduct discussions if it is to work. It is unnecessary to introduce additional red tape and additional tasks for supervision that have so many important tasks that require a lot of treatment already. At the same time, it becomes difficult to consider when, how and with whom to discuss. There will be scope for different opinions on the extent to which the obligation to discuss has been fulfilled, and instructions from the Labour Inspectorate then seemed to be a less appropriate instrument. The third proposal is understood to mean that all absences in calculating the addition time after the four-year rule in the Working Environment Act § 14-9 new paragraph mean that no deduction should be made from any absence. One indicates that people entering a temporary employment relationship often do this because it fits in with their life situation, such as theirs. that they plan to increase their family or that military service is close. Flexibility is just one of the main reasons why it is, as well as trying before a profession is not sure that one will be overtime. One believes it may seem unreasonable that employers in such a case could be placed on a considerable responsibility for a worker who would meet a temporary need, but who, towards the end of the assignment, is on leave and would like the assignment to be extended beyond the four years that give the right to permanent membership. Short sick leave during the period of the assignment should not be deducted when calculating the addition period, and one considers that sick leave limited to the employer’s period should not be deducted when calculating the addition period in relation to the four-year period. I refer with this to the comments from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2262	There are important proposals submitted by the government to the Stortinget and which the Labour and Social Committee has taken a decision on. There is a great deal of freedom in having a regular job, not least in terms of security of your own income, and also in terms of working conditions. I think it's striking what the opposition is presenting today. The right has previously travelled an interpellation in this room where concerns were expressed about the prevalence of temporary employment among Norwegian doctors in Norwegian hospitals. It's a shame if it's that to be heard in the Right it has to hit the members of the Medical Association. It's often those who are weak in the world of work from before, who may experience being a caste ball. That's exactly why it's important for the entire red-green government to ensure that people get the opportunity for permanent employment. But it is also a special quality in Norwegian working life that not only provides safety for Norwegian workers, but it also gives good conditions for business and loyalty from employees resulting from a regular employment relationship. Where there are critical conditions in the workplace, it is much easier to say from when you have a security of fixed employment at the bottom. Deeper than ever, it is a matter of permanent employment or temporary employment that is fundamental to the structures of labour force. The fact that we have strong partners in the world of work has helped people to dare to organize when they know that permanent employment is the general rule. Citizens today are proposing to make it easier to hire people on a temporary basis. That's the wrong way to go. That's why the government has just tried to keep up what we can do to ensure that even more people get permanent employment. In some places it is a problem of attitude; in others there may be a lack of knowledge of the law we have. For this reason, the introduction of an annual obligation to discuss is an important element, both in order to make employees and employers aware of its relationship with permanent employment and in order to get a good and well-balanced job to ensure that there is as much permanent employment as possible. If we were to follow the Right and the citizen's path in opening up and giving general access to temporary employment, it would be significant recruitment challenges for the trade union movement. It would be more difficult to tell about critical conditions at work. Perhaps the places you notice the consequences of this most, are the places where you are not organised and have a more loose attitude to temporary employment. It does something about employees' ability to demand good pay and working conditions. This is precisely why we want everyone to join – by providing such a strong protection of the principle of permanent employment. In some places, it will be necessary for the Labour Inspectorate to ensure that these discussions are held, precisely to ensure that we get the good cooperation that makes it possible for even more people to secure their own income. The Working Environment Act contains a number of provisions aimed at ensuring health, environment and safety in the workplace. We know that the people who sometimes have the worst wages and the most unsafe working conditions are temporary employees. In the public sector, there is also a need to see how the law practice works today. We believe that the extent of temporary employment in the public sector is too large, and want to see how we can ensure that more people also get permanent employment – not only to the satisfaction of those concerned, but also of the industry and the public sector, who get safe, good, stable workers to create even more values. That is why the government has adopted positive proposals for a more tidy working life, which is what the Stortinge says today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2288	The issue we are dealing with today is the Working Environment Act. Unfortunately, it is not a matter which will help to increase the employment of people who are out of work, but rather consolidates the wall that exists in the Norwegian model between those who have jobs and those who do not. The right does not support the proposals, as we want a different working life from the government – a working life where more of the 800,000 people currently out of work are given a new chance to work. However, I would like to begin by stating that, for the Right, there should still be regular work to be the general form of employment in Norway. I say this, because I know that someone will take advantage of this debate to spread doubt about this. However, there is no contradiction between having as a basic principle that fixed employment should be the general form of addition and having a more liberal attitude towards temporary employment than that of the government and the majority in this Chamber. The main challenges in Norwegian employment today are not that there is too little influence for the trade movement – on the contrary. Over the last five years, we have seen a number of proposals adopted to meet the interests of the trade union movement. The right is generally positive for employees to have good influence and influence in working life. However, we do not share the view that the trade movement should have direct participation in important business conditions, such as: recruitment. This is, and must be, a matter for the employer. As far as temporary employment is concerned, we know that there are many of those who today have no job, who, with more liberal legislation in this field, would have a new chance in the workplace. The goal should therefore be to open up, not close again. The objective should be simplification, not bureaucracy. In both of these areas, the Right Government believes that the majority is going in the wrong direction. In 2005, the changes adopted by the Bondevik II government and the then majority of the population received considerable attention. The proposals were aimed at providing general access to temporary employment in the private sector, while at the same time creating a tighter time limit before the relationship triggered a right to permanent employment. Similarly, at the time, the Right was committed to having the same rules for temporary employment in the public sector as in the private sector, which meant tightening the possibility of temporary employment in the public sector, compared to practice. For those of us who remember the debate at the time, it might seem that the then government parties wanted to go away from the basic principle that fixed employment should be the general rule. It almost seemed as if we had the aim of making everyday life unsafe for decent workers. This was with respect to announce the blast! On the other hand, a more liberal labour environment law in this field would provide for example: Young people and newly-trained people have a simpler way to work on a regular basis. Because it is always easier to get a regular job if the CV refers to experience than if it refers to previous unemployment. Has the government’s management of these kinds of issues since it won power in 2005 contributed to less ‘foreign’? No, it doesn't. Unfortunately, progress has gone in the wrong direction. More and more people are out of work — and remain out of work. Many of those who can and will meet fences. Since the government began what it called the protection of workers' rights in a spirit of solidarity, several disabled people have remained in line to get into work or to get a job qualification. Since the government started working on the IA questions, which it was supposed to protect and further process, the sick leave is shot in the weather. And the number of miscarriages, not least young miscarriages, increases day by day. The right-hand side shares the government's ambition for greater inclusion of those who are currently out of work, but we have problems understanding the logic of how the government wants that to happen. For there will be no more jobs by a tighter working regulations. There will be no more inclusion of building the wall between them with and without a job, even higher. There will be no more money for qualifying measures for those who need it when they are spent on meaningless bureaucracy in the Labour Inspectorate — which is also a consequence of the changes that are currently being adopted in the Labour Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2307	The President must remember that there are better and more parliamentary expressions than ‘squiet’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2310	SV is pleased with the changes in the law that we are proposing today, and I think that previous speakers' speeches clearly show that there is a need to strengthen the protection of employees. In fact, job cleanliness is a competitive advantage for employers. It means freedom and security for employees, and it is an advantage for employers, especially in terms of skills building. So temporary employment is going to be like today. The law does not change, but we put in place mechanisms to make the law actually work as it is supposed to. It's a little strange that those who obviously want something else, don't see it. It's the law with temporary employees today. You can only see that in the labour market it is. And of course it should be. There are good reasons for that. So the notion that it's almost impossible today, I think you can easily refute. On the contrary, there have been many cases of abuse of temporary employment — quite rough in many places. The hotel and restaurant industry and the cleaning industry account for perhaps some of the most serious. But the trade union in Hedmark has now gone through temporary employment and temporary employment in the municipalities, and there are not a few temporary workers there. If you had converted part of these temporary jobs into permanent jobs, I am absolutely sure that you had increased the quality of the service offered in a lot of these municipalities, and put in place a better working environment that might also have done something significant about sick leave and exclusion. So the representative Sylvi Graham says that Right wants a different working life. Yeah, we know that. That's one of the differences on the right-hand side and the left-hand side. I belong to that part of Norwegian policy that has its roots in the movement of labour, and that also knows that there is a fight for proper pay and working conditions and a good working environment that has civilised this country, and that ensures that we are among the most productive countries that exist. It is also true that this is not a disadvantage; it is a great advantage for the country. There is a contrast between unsafe jobs and an inclusive working life. I have also noted the views of the Right and the Advance Party on social dumping. I think that when we keep these things together, we see a clear pattern and a picture of the fact that the right-hand side wants a completely different working life than what we want on the left-hand side. Because in the comments on the measures against social dumping, and these two parties have opposed several of them, they say they are against the measures because they prevent competition for wages. What does that mean? Indeed, wage competition means falling wages for those who currently have unsafe jobs and who are going to compete with cheap labour from other countries. That means it's the cleaner, the carpenter, the maid and the waitress staff at the restaurants that have to earn even worse. So you generally want to get bigger pay differentials. Several studies now show that communities with higher pay differentials are poor at all parameters that are important for SV. It's about crime, it's about trust in the community, and you care about the community, it's about how kids who come from bad social conditions are doing. That people actually have a job is one of the very important parameters. In addition, I do not think it is right that the Right pushes people with disabilities in front of them when they want more temporary employees. We can ask disabled people's organisations if they want more temporary jobs. So they don't. They want to be recognised for their skills and to be able to get employment on proper terms, those as others. Because they're as competent as we are so-called functionally healthy. It's just that they are met with attitudes that I perceive that the Right and their language also shows when they talk about this alienation that I've addressed many times. Politicians shouldn't put people in an outhouse. It's not an outsider. You don't have a job, but you need one, for example. Disadvantaged to have something to live with, you're as much a citizen of society as anyone else in this country. I think it's important how we talk about people and put concepts on people other than ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2327	In general, the Christian People's Party is busy securing workplaces through fixed additions. It is important to ensure cleanliness, and it is important to prevent us from having a working life that exploits workers. For the Christian People's Party, it is important when discussing this matter, that one focuses on the group that is currently not actually allowed to participate in the world of work – there are 700,000 – 800,000 people who do not have the same opportunity to participate in the job, are allowed to feel that they are motivated in this way, and are allowed to spend money like everyone else. What you notice in that group is that there are more disabled people out of work. There are several immigrants outside, and there are several young people outside. It is therefore important to keep it in mind when adopting new laws, in order to safeguard the jobs that are currently in place, to ensure cleanliness, and at the same time to have a regulatory framework that ensures the ability of the group of people to enter the labour market. I am afraid that the proposals we are discussing today may be counterproductive. I can understand some of the ideas behind the proposals, but I'm afraid they will have unintended effects. The Christian People's Party and I are busy with a flexible working life, but it should also be more mandatory. That is why I would like to stress what Mr Graham said earlier, namely that the Bondevik II administration was in favour of a more flexible labour market, but at the same time ensure restraints – as in the case we are dealing with here – because it was a two-year limit before a right to permanent membership was granted. I think temporary addition might be useful. For some people, the seasonal work or the project, or starting something new, is knowing that a person can bet for a short period of time, either as a worker or as a project worker, and being allowed to run it without being afraid that the costs will run tight. I also think it is worth remembering – too often when one has such kinds of things, there is a sort of conflict between the public and the private – that in the private it is about. 6 pst. temporarily added, with 14 pst. in public. When you're busy getting temporary additions, it's important to think about the public. Two-thirds of the HSH members say they would add more if they could have had more temporary additions. That's what I think is an important perspective to have in the back of the mind. Because if you want more people at work, it's important to use the tools that are there to get more people to work. When I say temporary additions are useful, I say in some cases that fixed additions are of course the best. But I want temporary additions because it can ensure a recruitment. It's like when you've had a foot within, it often results in a job, because then you've been allowed to show up, you've been allowed to try, and then employers see that you're good enough. A test from HSH showed that two-thirds of those on temporary addition are getting a regular job later. That just means that when you're allowed to try, you get a regular job. The reason why the Christian People's Party is voting against the proposals today is precisely that perspective. I see the intention, I say the intention behind some of the suggestions, but I think they will have a negative effect. And then a non-permanent and secure workplace is achieved at the same time as one can have temporary places where one can enter. One achieves the opposite, one maybe creates too much protection around the additions, and then one doesn't close with the integration and the recruitment that I think is incredibly important to do something about the 700,000-800 000 that are outside the workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2348	The Working Environment Act states that the general rule of Norwegian law is permanent employment for an indefinite period. Temporary employment contracts may be concluded if specified conditions are met. Norway has stricter regulation of temporary employment than many other countries, while the law allows the use of temporary workers and extra assistance when it is really needed. Among other things, the supervisory experience of the Labour Inspectorate shows that many establishments are over-resolving the current labour needs of temporary employment. The reason for breaking the rules on temporary employment is not necessarily a deliberate desire to circumvent the law, but equally a lack of knowledge of the law and awareness of the use of such employment. This also results in some cases of unnecessary use of temporary contracts. The Government therefore considers that there is a need for measures to raise awareness of the use of temporary employment without restricting access to such agreements. It is therefore proposed to introduce an obligation for the employer to discuss the use of temporary employment by the enterprise with the trustees at least once per. years. The aim is to reduce any illegal or unnecessary temporary employment contracts, including recruitment agreements. As access to temporary employment does not change, it does not make temporary employment more difficult, as the minority in the Committee claims. It is true that in some collective agreements there are rules on the obligation to discuss temporary employment, but not many have it. However, in particular, many unorganised enterprises without collective agreements need to raise awareness of their use of temporary, inter alia. in the hotel and restaurant industries. There is a need for a follow-up to the implementation of the discussions, particularly in the unorganised part of the world of work. It is therefore proposed to allow the Labour Inspectorate to supervise and, where appropriate, to impose requirements to ensure that the actual discussion process is actually carried out. Furthermore, there is a need to clarify the provision of the Labour Environment Act that employees who have been on a continuous temporary basis for more than four years are to be regarded as permanent employees in relation to the dismissal rules. In a 2009 judgment, the Supreme Court ruled that a worker’s sick leave of a certain length should be deducted in calculating the four-year rule. The government believes that it is not right that neither sick leave nor any other absence should be deducted. It must be the period for which the establishment has temporarily employed. It is proposed that it is explicitly stated that absence should generally not be deducted from the calculation of the four-year period of employment. This does not mean that absence means that the employment period is prolonged, as the minority seems to think. The proposal is also best in accordance with the other rules of the Labour Environment Act and ensures a non-discriminatory provision for women and men in parental leave or for persons with disabilities. A minority in the Committee consider that the government is moving in the wrong direction and indicates that the changes implemented by the Bondevik II Government in 2005 and reversed by Stoltenberg I are a more correct way to go. The Bondevik II Government opened a general access to temporary employment up to 12 months. Such access, according to the government’s view, violates a basic principle in Norwegian working life that the general rule should be fixed employment. General access will lead to much more temporary employment and a lack of predictability of work and income for very many, including vulnerable groups. This government believes that there will be a wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2366	In the proposal, the Ministry states that, according to the Ministry's assessment, the legal rules on access to temporary employment are clear enough and define in a clear enough way when temporary employment is possible. Then they say that there is a lack of knowledge about regulation and awareness about what makes you propose these changes, which the Council of State has also been involved in. For me, this seems to be a strange form of adult education for the Norwegian working life. Under the Bondevik II Government, a proposal was made for permanent employment after two years. We also believe that the general rule should be permanent employment. What is the view of the Council of State that it should be easier to get fixed employment, that you should not wait four years, as the rule is proposed here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2374	First, whether this is adult training. We know that it is not an increasing, but quite large, widespread use of temporary employment. Among other things, pointed out by the representative of the Christian People's Party that in the public sector up to 14 p.m. use of temporary employment. It's also something I'm being confronted with in my areas that we don't want. We believe that, among other things: that through this obligation to discuss, with the awareness in it, we will be able to reduce the use of unwise or inappropriate use of temporary employment. So to the issue of the four-year rule, this government did not want to legalise access to temporary employment in the form in which the Bondevik government intervened. What you want is to maintain a system where people have much safer access to their jobs, but then under the fact that the times you can be temporarily employed, you have a four-year rule attached to it. So there's a relationship between the two sets of rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2381	There is, of course, a connection between the strictness of regulations in the labour market and the number of people entering the labour market. There is nothing difficult to find in these days, for example, how to make a mistake. Take a country like Spain, for example, that has a Berlin wall around its working life. There is high unemployment and a direct two-way division of work: youth and people outside have no rights; those inside have all rights. Norway has a slightly better system. But equally fully, it's the same mechanisms here for us. If there is too strict protection for those inside, it becomes more difficult for those outside. I see that the Council of State is adding up to a system where discussions are to be held at the workplace. The Council of State does not say anything about the kind of discussion or the consequences of this discussion. My question is a little bit different. That's: what voice does she think those who are out of work should have? So here you say that those who are inside today are going to have even more to say, and those who are outside – in the proposition I don't see that they are mentioned in a single word – what kind of influence are they going to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2388	I stress what I said in my post, that we don't make it harder to hire people temporarily. The debate that is now going on, which is a completely fair debate, is a debate in which we are discussing whether we want to soften the rules for temporary employment. So this government believes that you don't increase the possibility for those who are outside by making it more unsafe for those who are inside. I would also like to stress that there is no scientific evidence to show that making it unsafe for those entering the labour market makes it considerably easier for those outside. The Econ report referred to just states that there are no scientific points of view in order to draw a unilateral conclusion in any direction in that area. I am very afraid that by softening up for the temporary jobs, it becomes so that more people come in and out all the time, but there is no reason to say that it makes you generally take the outsider in a lasting and safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2395	With regard to the Econ report that came, I agree that the media's statement that it had drawn the conclusion a little bit. But can I understand the Council of State down there that she thinks there's no connection between the regulations you have in the world of work and how high is the threshold to get in? If you take Spain as a starting point, where you have much stricter rules than in Norway — if you believe that SV’s argument is true, they have a much more social work life than in Norway — it’s obvious that it’s blocking large groups from working life. Does the Council of State think that there is no such thing as a relationship in Norway, that there is no trade between how strictly you regulate the entrance and the rights of those inside and outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2400	What I've said is that there are no scientific analyses that show that context. So the point is that I think you're right that if you open up a completely liberal labour market, we're always going to get more in and out of the labour market. In most cases it would be itself. This is also seen in the areas of temporary employment today. But it must always be measured against what kind of work life you want. If you want a system of safe and good jobs for those who are inside, you need to find other and good mechanisms to get your exclusion into work than to make your work generally unsafe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2407	If a member of staff is temporarily admitted and he/she is sickly registered and is away due to leave etc., the company must take in a new one. The years go by, and the one that was first added will come back after four years. But the other one has shown that he's doing the job and mastering it. The company is very pleased, but in fact they have to choose the one who has not shown anything at work, because he has been away. This amendment will mean that whoever has gone is entitled to a fixed addition. Does the Council not see this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2412	The point here is that the vast majority of temporary employment is much more short-lived than four years, and the legislation for four years is much more short-lived. Under 10 pst. has a longer duration than two years, and the maximum duration is not four years in the case of temporary employment. What we're concerned about is that we've set a final end point for when you have to live in the uncertainty that you have temporary employment. And we don't think it's right that because you're sick, you have to lose that right. What I also mentioned in my post is that it will typically affect women who because of care tasks etc. have greater absence from work. But I emphasize that it doesn't mean that we postpone, it does longer than four years, but the four-year limit we see for principle reasons should be fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2421	I want a deepening from the Council of State when it comes to helping people out into work, because there are very many of us about both. What I think is challenging with the law is that the tightening up of the law can lead to some employers being afraid to add, because they're afraid of the consequences of the addition. Governments say that it is difficult for women, but one can also imagine that employers are afraid that a maternity leave, which may last a year, perhaps a longer illness, and one can take other examples, such as military service, etc., can lead to the four years going very fast, when it comes to short vicariate in one year, for example. In the worst case, the result may be that a choice is not to add. Doesn't the Council of States – when one knows, with the numbers I used instead, that two thirds, after having tried in a temporary addition, were added – that it is better for a person to try than not to get a job at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2428	I think you might be constructing up a little unnecessary big problem-setting, cf. What I've said. In most cases, people are not on probation for four years. In most cases, you have a shorter period, and either you end your employment or you become a permanent employee. We have received a judgment that shows that there is a flexibility here that we believe is wrong in view of the four-year rule. I don't think that's going to be a big problem given that employers don't dare hire people in military service or women of childbearing age. I think we share – and I'm glad – the desire to get more people in, and I don't think this would prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2435	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2440	I have followed this case with interest, and I will comment on a claim that the opposition is constantly using, including the representatives Graham and Ropstad earlier today. The claim is that groups that have difficulty entering the labour market will have so much better opportunities if you increase access to temporary employment and that it will help the unemployed to get a job. In this context, I actually refer to international research reports and OECD studies which conclude that this claim is incorrect. It is not the unemployed who fill the temporary posts. In general, temporary staff move from one temporary post to the other, which makes the situation difficult for them, not least economically. They have lower wages, they do not receive loans, there is more irregular working time, and they are less well-trained. They have a higher incidence of mental problems, such as depression, sleep problems and fatigue. They have a higher risk of occupational injury, and many temporary employees say that they are careful to take on a dissatisfaction with the job because the employment is temporary. Increased access to temporary employment is not for the benefit of unemployed persons. On the other hand, there is no doubt that there is an advantage for employers, who can replace permanent employees by rights, with temporary workers without rights, with all that it entails for individuals. I am not so surprised that the employers' association, HSH, argues for increased use of this. Nor is it the case that there are more jobs in Norway simply because they allow for more use of temporary employment. The workplaces are there anyway. It's just a matter of what employment you're actually going to have. When the employee is permanently employed, the employer must invest in both a good working environment and increased knowledge among employees. I believe that this is a competitive advantage for Norway. I would also like to remind you that it is a probationary period for regular employment. This is how both the employer and the employee can find out if you actually fit into the job. There is no need for employers to use short contracts to test new employees. The issue we have to deal with today is a step in the right direction to minimise the use of unnecessary temporary jobs. It is also good for those most affected — women in temporary part-time jobs. If we get them into all of the fixed positions, we also solve a lot of the equal pay problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2454	I will join the representative Tone Merete Sønsterud just said. What I am a little surprised at is the Christian People's Party's position on this matter. It sounds like there are more jobs to have more temporary jobs. That is, as I said, very difficult to detect. If you need to hire, you employ. If you have a temporary need, it is actually law in Norway today. A lot of people are temporarily employed. So it's true that very many of them actually get fixed employment as well. And if it's been four years, isn't the need temporary? So I don't understand the representative Roppstad's concern about this employer who has had someone temporarily employed for four years – then it's probably a permanent need, I would assume. And then it's an advantage for all parties that this is going to be all right. What I think would lead to more people being hired is if the Right Party and the Advance Party get through their vision, namely to compete more on pay and unsafe jobs, and then to underpaid people and pay them lice pay. Then there'll probably be a lot of jobs. This is what we see in a number of other countries, for example. in the United States, where this term is referred to as ‘working poor’. People there can actually have two jobs for the minimum wage and still need social assistance to be able to live at all. It is clear that you have a job, but it is not possible to live on it – and not to live with it at all. I would like to stress that the regulations in the labour market have something to say, as the representative Røe Isaksen said, but it is not possible to compare the Spanish system with the Norwegian one. They're completely different. In Norway, I believe that this is a good balance. So it's possible to hire temporarily, when there's a need for temporary employment, and we want to make sure that what the Working Environment Act is today, that those who are entitled to permanent employment actually get it. So it's a good balance. If you look at those countries that have more liberal legislation than what we have in Norway, there is nothing to suggest that the economy is going better there, that they have less unemployment than in Norway, or that people with different problems with regard to the labour market are easier to get a job there. No, on the contrary – we can count that, in Norway, people who do not have room for work are entitled to some benefits from the government that you do not have in other countries. They won't be pitched there, they'll be cared for by the family. And I'm very happy and proud that we have a system in this country that is such that if you don't get a job, and you have health problems, at least you have a claim to disability. I think that's right. So we're going to do a lot more to get more of them to work, but we're not doing that by making work life more unsafe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2468	Several speakers in today's debate, including the representative of Røe Isaksen, have referred to Spain as a frightful example of the use of temporary labour. And that's right, Spain is. Spain has a two-tiered labour market, where people who belong to the part of the working life who are on temporary employment go through a permanent rounding from temporary jobs to temporary jobs and never get out of this system. We're not completely free of this in Norway either, it's actually a lot of people going on temporary employment for years without getting into permanent work. There is a reason for this, and the reason is, of course, that there are employers who wonder in the temporary period. It is such that temporary workers are constantly paid worse than permanent workers. And it is not accidental that the use of temporary labour has been the subject of several tariff areas in the year's tariff settlement. In addition, of course, the social element is included in the use of temporaryity, because this affects workers in particular. It is not easy for those in temporary jobs to enter any bank and try to obtain loans for different purposes, not to say to settle. So what we are proposing in this case is that workers' organisations and trustees should be given a right of discussion in relation to the use of temporary labour. Then, of course, we feel that the right parties are themselves equal in this area – they resort to old sins and want to extend the use of temporary labour. The point is, of course, that the use of temporary employment is not prohibited in order to solve temporary tasks, but that workers should have a certain influence on their use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2477	‘The places of work are there anyway’, we heard from this pulpit. It beats me like a rather strange statement. It seems that jobs are perceived as being adopted by the Storting. This suggests that it could be an advantage for the Workers' Party to go out and talk to, for example. a decent little business trip and see if he has any idea that the workplaces are there anyway, and that it's hip-hop – if you have a little extra to do – if you have the chance to hire people temporarily, or if you have to hire people fast at once. Of course it isn't. So the representative, Andersen, speaks with commitment that in the United States you have working poor. That is true, and we should be glad that we do not have it in Norway. But what we have in Norway is quite different: all surveys in Norway indicate that we have people who are poor because they are in public order. I've never understood the logic behind the idea that if you get a small amount paid out of a public office, it's solidarity, but if you get a salary paid out of a private employer, it's replacement. When we have poor people in Norway because we are on public support schemes, you have to ask yourself: what to do with it? This government here obviously does not intend to address any of the SV's proposals to increase, for example. unemployment benefit or social assistance. It has been consistently rejected. That means they agree with the Right that the key is to get more people into work. Then we have to ask ourselves the question, how can we make this working life a little bit more open? Yes, we will have good, decent, proper jobs for workers in Norway. Well, we're going to make sure we have a safe labour market. Yeah, we're gonna make sure people feel good at work. But we also have to make sure that the threshold is not so high that fewer come in, and that more stay outside. That's the question. The representative of Gullvåg is probably right in that it might not be so easy to raise a loan if you are temporarily employed, but try to raise a loan if you are unemployed, try to raise a loan if you are on a disability pension, try to raise a loan if you are never allowed to enter the labour market. I can promise the representative of Gullvåg that it is quite, quite difficult!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2489	Karin Andersen had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2492	Yeah, that's right, as the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaacen says, it's incredibly important that people can have a job, and that it's a very good protection against poverty. That is why the government has now said that we should create an employment strategy for people with disabilities. Therefore, this government has a much higher pressure on action against the unemployed than the governments in the Right have been, on unemployment has been much higher than it is today. So the point here is if you think that weakening the employees' rights is an advantage for the economy in general, and for more people to come to work. There I believe that the right-hand side is wrong on both points. No, it is not profitable for Norway to weaken the rules, and it is not that more people get jobs if they do more jobs insecure. In addition to good rules, Norway also has a legislation on permitting which many employers in other countries envy Norwegian employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2499	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox [[See page 4101]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2516	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that up to three lines of response be given after contributions from the principal figures for each party. Furthermore, it is proposed that there should be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2529	The present suspension is a follow-up to the 2009 state tariff negotiations, where the parties agreed to continue the current contractual pension scheme, adjusted occupational pensions and old-age pensions. The adjustment of pensions has a primary effect on the annual budgets up to and including 1953, which are fully covered by the current vesting rules of the age pension of the population. Then the new generation rules are introduced. The government will return to the effects for later coal. I would like to begin by thanking my cooperation partners in the Committee for having come through the treatment of this great, and I would say the demanding matter, with the pension settlement retained. All lots, except the Advance Party, are behind the setting that is now on the table. It itself underlines the sustainability of the Pension Reform. The broad consensus shows that the reform will last over time. The Progress Party has also chosen to stay out of the pension agreement this time. That's why it doesn't matter what the party thinks. They have no influence. If that is so wrong that this party once comes to government, they are bound to administer a pension scheme that they are knowingly opposed to. Apart from that, it's pretty hard to figure out what the Progress Party really thinks about retirement. I think that in itself is intentional. At a time when pensioners in countries around us feel that the pension is being reduced and accrued pension rights are disappearing, we are in the enviable situation that we can fend for people's pension rights and secure all good pensions in the future. Until 2050, the real value of today's pensions is assumed to increase by a total of 50 pst. This, of course, does not mean that we can meet without any constraints in the future. In the context of increasing life expectancy, we need to work a little longer in the future to achieve the same pension. This means that the regulation of pensions, which has been linked to the wage growth of society in recent years, will be regulated in a different way from next year. The old-age pension is subject to somewhat weaker regulation than the wage growth in society — also in the interests of the sustainability of the pension system. The size of the business recently dealt with new AFP in the private sector. The new scheme is neutral, in the sense that the pension increases at a later date of withdrawal. Here, AFP is provided as an additional pension for an old age pension and is retained out of life. In the private sector, there are no income restrictions. The individual can work and earn as much as he or she wants, without curtailment. The new AFP scheme in the private sector is fully in line with the intentions of the Pension Reform, namely that it should pay off longer in work. The continuation of today’s public sector AFP does not have the same incentives. The amount of the allowance is still NOK 15 000, and income in addition to that leads to a reduction in the pension in kroner. This, of course, limits the possibility of compensating for lifestyle adjustments. In reality, today’s AFP system means that life expectancy adjustment can only be offset after the age of 67 for the ages up to the age of 54. Of course, I am aware that public service pension and AFP are an essential part of the pay system, and as such a negotiated right. We have to respect that. However, I do not suggest that the public sector AFP creates disharmony in the pension system and that this hampers the transfer of pension rights between the public and private sectors. This is probably also some of the background to the fact that the majority of the Committee has seen the need to amend the government's proposal on one major point. During the Committee’s consultation, it was found that the coordination of public service pension rights and the private sector AFP could have very adverse effects. Workers in so-called freed-up establishments, such as Posten, Telenor, Arcus, Mesta, NRK, etc., with the rights of the State Pension Fund, were at risk of losing tens of thousands of crowns each year if coordination were to take place. In consultation with the Ministry of Labour, the majority of the Committee has found a solution that is both in line with the main intentions of the Pension Reform, namely that it should pay off longer in work, while at the same time properly safeguarding the acquired pension rights of these groups. The pension scheme found by the Committee covers an estimated 2 500 pensioners per year. It is a fact that employees’ organisations and the state as employers’ partners today disagree on what they agreed on in the 2009 tariff settlement. Organisations claim that the rights already vested in the occupational pension are protected by the Constitution and that no retroactive effect can be made of a 2011 living adjustment. They insist that only rights acquired after the decision of the Storting on new earnings can be adjusted for life. Consequently, constitutional protection has been given a great deal of attention to the government's proposition. The Ministry refers to the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs department, which has issued several opinions on the protection of basic pension rights. The Legal Service shall, inter alia, present: public occupational pensions have a higher level of constitutional protection than rights under social security, because occupational pensions are considered to be part of the employment contract. In addition, the Ministry claims that the basic legal protection for public occupational pensions applies primarily to the amount required by the pensioner under the legislation of the occupational pension scheme, i.e. 66 pst. on the full-earning pension basis. Then is the case that the rules of co-ordination with the public interest often mean that the total pension at full earnings is higher than 66 pst., even after life expectancy adjustment. It is quite impossible for us in Stortingen to change the weather and wind between the state and the employees' organisations on this issue. I hesitate to point out that such an interpretation dispute can in principle be resolved in two ways: one is that the parties go back to the negotiating table and seek to agree. The other one is trying to sue the courts. The employees’ organisations have also indicated that they will support members who wish to review this issue before the courts. Finally, I would like to mention two obvious injustices in today's pension system. One relates to part-time working women — mostly women — who have small job breaks and who work less than 14 hours a week. These women pay contributions to public pension funds without getting anything back. It helps little if these women have more small jobs with different employers. If anything can be called a pensioner, it's just this. However, since this issue is, in reality, a topic of negotiation between the parties, perhaps primarily in the municipal sector, we need to be careful in this regard to point the problem. The second is the coordination law with regulations, which are actually made for a different time, but which have gradually become so complicated and unwieldy that the law can get the strangest results. I believe that the problems of coordination of public service pensions and AFPs in the private sector are a consequence of this. Although the majority of the Committee supports the pension reform and wants a new pension system without coordination needs, we will have to live with different forms of coordination for some years to come. Then, in my opinion, we cannot live with a law that gives as different and random a verdict as the case seems to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2560	As the representative is probably in agreement with, you can't receive the AFP after 62 years of age if you have a disability before you are 62 years old. The Labour Party said as it is well known when it took over the government offices, that it wanted more work and fewer social security. Such a problem, that you can't take out the AFP if you've been partially disabled before 62 years, means that you might have to work until you're 67 years old. Many of those who have had disability benefits cannot work until they are 67 years old – that's exactly why they are disabled. Will this not lead to increased pressure on disability and disability, which will lead to fewer jobs and more people in social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2565	There are several reasons why many today are applying for disability rather than withdrawing the AFP. The representative Eriksson mentions one of them. But, as the representative Eriksson knows, the government has signaled for the longest time that the government will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for a new disability pension scheme as early as this year. I am quite sure that in the new social security system we will remove the elements that do not stimulate the use of the working line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2570	I am pleased that the representative of Gullvåg pointed out the work that the government is working on, that a new failure message has to be submitted. I expect the government to present a message that is in line with the investigation, and in line with what has been pointed out in the hearing note, and which has received a hearing response. With the proposals referred to there, there is little doubt that this issue will be even greater than with today's legislation and today's system. Then my question becomes to Gullvåg: does that mean that you want to make something quite different than what is referred to in the NOU for a new disability pension? And does that mean that you want to present something that is completely radically different from what has been sent out in the consultation paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2575	I am very pleased that the representative Eriksson has expectations about the government's proposal for a new disability pension scheme. So have I. But I think we are wisest to wait for the outcome of the discussions that the government is doing in this area before we judge the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2583	Today, we are dealing with a follow-up to the 2009 tariff settlement, where the parties agreed that today’s public sector AFP should continue as before, both in terms of how the AFP is calculated from 62 years old, and in terms of the conditions for withdrawals. Furthermore, it was decided that public service pensions should be continued, but adapted to the Pension Reform. The party of progress is saddened that the government has not presented this matter much earlier, and we find it sad that the majority of the majority of the majority have not submitted to a more thorough and longer procedure than we see today. My claim, and I'm coming back to that, is that the Storting today makes decisions that again open up a number of new questions, as well as making decisions on a failed basis. The purpose of the Pension Reform was to save money. You should get a simpler and more flexible pension system, it would make it easier for people to figure out what was the future pension. The truth is that we've got a complex, complicated and inconclusive pension system, where it's almost impossible for individuals to figure out what they're going to get in future pensions. The matter we are dealing with now will not give us any less complicated pension scheme. It's really just the top of the coronary sac, or the dot over the i, that complicates all of these factors. One of the key issues raised by the Pension Reform is the introduction of life expectancy adjustment. The party of progress was known to oppose lifestyle adjustment when we dealt with the legislation related to new retirement pensions in the population. But we have noticed, however, that the majority today and in this case suggest that life-age adjustment is to be carried out in a similar way to that determined for new population-responsiveness from 2011. Furthermore, we have noticed that the government has chosen the strictest possible calculation when public employees work longer than necessary. Social security will, as you know, increase due to lower ratios, while the occupational pension will not be calculated according to lower ratios but 1.00, while the coordination deduction will be adjusted with lower ratios. To illustrate the complexity of the legislation, we can take from a person born in 1953 who has full earnings in the occupational pension scheme and a final salary of NOK 375 000. He works until he's 70 years old, and he also doesn't take out the public interest before he's 70 years old. He will then have a greater popular reputation, but almost all of it will be eaten up by the coordination. His total pension is from 70 years in this case NOK 267 452. Two years of extra work is only NOK 1752 more per person. years of retirement than what he would have been entitled to if he had left at 68 years of age. Is that what it means to pay for longer work? Will it stimulate more people to stand longer – when you really get just crumbs left to stand longer in the workplace? The progress party is pleased that we are not in the pension agreement, precisely because it looked until those degrees are documented through one case after another, the big cracks in the thinking, that this is not related. At first, we got an old-age pension system where it was supposed to pay off at work, with earnings rules that meant that a lot of people lose their earnings and get poorer earnings and poorer pensions. Then a new AFP is implemented in the private sector, based on the principle that it should pay off at work, but that has nothing to do with what was the origin of the AFP. Then we come to this matter, where we treat public occupational pensions and AFP in the public sector, which completely violates the previous principles that it should pay off longer in work. I think it's quite illustrative and actually also shows how explosive the whole new pension policy has become. The rapporteur was very concerned with coordination, and I notice that there is a code of coordination here that applies even in 1953. And then you say you should come back with the coordination code for the annual coals that were born after 1954. It really means that a person who was born in 1955 or 1956, per. the current date will have no kind of knowledge of the annual pension he will receive in the future. I think it is regrettable that there has not been a more thorough approach to coordination legislation and a comprehensive approach, so that we could have seen the whole transition and seen it in a wider, broader and more holistic context. I also see that the new coordination rules will mean that those who are young today – 47 years of age or younger – will have a much lower pension rate than those who leave before 1953. They will be guaranteed around 66 pst. by the pensioner's pension. But if you take one born after 1962, he'll most likely get a pension rate that's somewhere between 53 and 55 pst. of its final income. That means that you also reduce the pension he earned in today's population back to 2011. I see that there are several of the hearing bodies that point to the same thing, and like them, I regret that this happens – that you add up to a pension scheme that then until those degrees break, among other things. with the principles of the private sector, where such coordination cannot be achieved. But in the public sector, you can do that. I think it's interesting that when you think about basic law, but also in view of the new changes proposed by the majority in terms of coordination between public service pension and private AFP, obviously it's unreasonable to be deprived of so much money and so much pension if you were born before 1953, but quite ok and legitimate if you were born later. Can anyone in this room with your hand on your heart explain to me why that's the case? Why is it legitimate to take earned pension from those born after 1962? For me, this suggests that there have been some proposals and coordination that have not yet been seen. People have been deprived of their pensions to such an extent that I call it theft. Then you've become ashamed and ashamed of the great theft – and come back with 85 pst. of the property of thieves. But you're not going to stop stealing for that reason, you're actually going to keep going. For each coal after the 1953 coal, you have to give back only a little less of what you stole. It is absolutely legitimate, but at the same time totally unheard of by those who were born earlier. I have a hard time understanding the logic here. Then I also see that for a person who does not have the combination of a private occupational pension and a public service pension, but only has a public service pension, a public AFP, of course means that if you take out the old age pension earlier than at 67 years, i.e. from 62 years, you will get a lower pension rate than 66 pst. I think there's little doubt about that. At the same time, the pension will be reduced by NOK 13 000 to NOK 15 000, based on a salary of NOK 375000. There is little doubt that the attitude we are presenting today will have a number of unfortunate and negative consequences. The largest group will be those who don't have full vesting time. The individual guarantee proposed will not help those who do not have 30 years in full because the coordination rules operate in such a way that this group always comes out with a higher total pension after coordination than before. As a result, this group does not have a guarantee under the collective bargaining agreement and the pensioner must cover the entire life expectancy adjustment loss itself. In addition, I find it interesting to note that there is no answer to the question of whether a notional rating rule is to be introduced, which you have in today's system. For those persons who have a public service pension and work outside the private sector, it will always be the case that what you earn in a public service pension is in proportion to what you have registered with the Pension Fund. And when you can now get both a public service pension and a private AFP, you may have gone over to another job, where you have a different and higher income. That means here you coordinate, like the rules are put forward in the proposition, without the fictional point advantage. I think it's a very strange way to put it up. In addition, those born after 1962, and especially those born after 1970, will be the major losers in this system. I also find it interesting to note that we now have a pension scheme and a public service pension that can increase the pressure on disability. But the second major paradox may be that we will also have a pension system that leads to greater lock-in, less flexibility and shifting of labour between the public and private sectors. I thought it was quite clear from the settings we have dealt with earlier that one of our objectives was to increase flexibility in the labour market, make it easier for people to be able to be employed in the public sector for one period and then possibly start in the private sector, or vice versa. Mobility in the labour market, flexibility, with the new rules, will be virtually impossible to implement. I think it is commendable that the Council of State in a letter to the Progress Party on 7 June, in response to the questions we asked, recognizes these challenges and these problems. That also means you haven't been able to imagine the big consequences of this. Finally, I think it is an important matter for the position to be taken today, and which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur, namely: What about all the women in the public sector who have small job breaks and who become the major pension losses? Is there something that's wrong – I think it was something the case-rapporteur said – at least it has to be within this group. I recall that in the Question Time of 15 March 2006 I already raised these issues with the then Minister of Renewal and Administration. Then it was promised that you would come back to this. Reference was made to the Pension Reform and said that one should come back to this and take it seriously when dealing with this matter. Nothing's done. I record that the attitude is still to leave it to the social partners. But it's still likely that the Storting is the only thing that can change the law. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2625	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2631	I have noted that the Chief Spokesman of the Advance Party used all his efforts to criticise the Pension Reform – not a word about the alternative of the Advance Party. It's okay to oppose the Pension Reform, but it's all right not to overlook that the issue we're discussing today is actually the result of negotiations between the parties in 2009. So the Progress Party is now running its own business – its desert migration – in the pension case. It must be difficult for the future partners of the Progress Party to record the information they receive in this case. So my question to the Progress Party must be: how have they planned to deal with the Pension Reform in future cooperation with other parties in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2640	Firstly, I am very pleased that I am given the opportunity to talk about the pension policy of the Progress Party. What Gullvåg very well knows is that the Progress Party has actually stood firm on today's system, and that is what we have proposed in the previous proceedings of the Pension Reform. We've also seen that we're being supported, for example. in the case of sustainability. Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in the Nordea Markets was early out there and told us that maintaining the current pension system will have the economics and sustainability to implement. Nor has it been necessary for Ergo to address this issue in the negotiations and in the payroll to which Gullvåg refers. With regard to future government constellations, I am pleased that Gullvåg acknowledges that the Advance Party and the Right can become so large that we will take over the government offices in 2013. We will then also certainly find good solutions in terms of good pension policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2647	There may be reason to ask the Progress Party a lot of questions in this case. One is that it is very difficult to get access to the entire pension proposal for the Progress Party, because now it may seem that the Progress Party is proposing to keep the old scheme, but with a new age limit of 62 years, without any lifestyle adjustment. At least that's how it can be heard when the Progress Party speaks. In that case, it is to introduce Greek states into the Norwegian economy now, and I don't think anyone wants that. So to the second question, if it had been like this, as the Progress Party says, that we're going to keep everything as it is today, we would have had the same problems as now, with two different systems, because they're negotiated by the social partners. Does this mean that the Progress Party will also exclude the responsibility of the parties for these cases – just put a line on agreements that employees have been involved in negotiating? The final question is: is this case so important to the Progress Party that it will be put at the forefront of possible government negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2656	Firstly, I think the representative Karin Andersen is very familiar with our remarks in the setting of Ot.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009, where we propose to keep today's system with a flexible system where there is no curtailment of the pension from 62 years. It states quite clearly how we intend to implement this, and I understand that the representative, Andersen, has not wanted to look well enough into the ways in which it can be done. You can, among other things: do so in a very simple way by implementing what the government has now done, removing part of the curtailment rules. In this way, you can also get flexibility by combining the pension from a well-earned roof, from a best-year rule, from every year, or from the total number of years in the population that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2661	It's a little exciting to hear the Progress Party, which is the friend of the pensioners, use the reply button to tell about their own policy. I note that the Progress Party is happy to stand out of the pension agreement. It's also kind of nice to see that such a big party is happy not to have any influence. Before the option, the display was a completely different one. Then the Progress Party would change the political reality of 100 days. But now we're recording that it's a Progress Party that's passive and that doesn't want influence. When the Progress Party is now happy to stand alone in a matter that is so important to many individuals, what other issues will the Progress Party in the next period seek to cooperate in order to achieve a broad-based civil settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2668	That question can really be answered very easily. Yes, this is an important matter. Yes, the Progress Party is very pleased that you are outside this cooperation precisely because of all the consequences of the new Pension Reform, and because this is undoubtedly the greatest well-being of the times. I am pleased that the Progress Party is not involved in this well-being process – helping to rob people of their future pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2673	So the chord change is over. The size goes back to the ordinary language list. It is Torbjørn Røe Eriksson who has the floor. The speaking time of the representative, Røe Eriksson, is up to 10 minutes. Here you go, Røe Eriksson. No, Røe Isaksen – I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2678	Røe Isaksen – I'm not Eriksson's younger brother or son, if anyone thought so. First just a few comments on the discussion here on cooperation. That's the way that there's a majority in the Biggest, there's a majority in the Biggest anyway. Then I'm absolutely sure that when there's a bourgeois majority at the elections next time – because it's probably going to be – it's certainly possible to get good tips from today's government constellation on how to put away previous positions and compromises that you've been before. Then I have a comment for the representative Eriksson. I can both with my hand on my heart and my hand on the outside of my heart, without my heart, or without my hand on my heart. [[muttering in the hall]] So I want to say that this kind of broad settlement is one of the things that makes the Norwegian model work. There are, of course, constant disadvantages with very broad settlements. It makes everyone have to give a little, but it's also one of the reasons why we're able to make some overall responsible political choices that are important for the future. It could be very nice if we could all clapp ourselves on our backs and say that we are currently driving the world's most beautiful retirement car, but it's terribly little help if you're on your way to the wall of the first class. That's what it really says: either we have to change our pension system, or we have to take a dramatic cut once in the future. Let's be clear. It is also important that people are aware of it. Of course, we could have kept the old pension scheme, but then we had to do something else. Then we had to either increase the taxes, cut dramatically in the level of pensions or cut dramatically in other things. However, when the pension reform, although not always nice to look at, is the most important welfare reform we have had in recent years, it is precisely because it allows the pension system to be sustainable in the future. This means that my children and my grandchildren and everyone else's children and grandchildren do not have to face the election: are we going to cut pensions, increase taxes, or are we going to have a sustainable pension system? We have made that choice easier today. I'm proud that the Right has been there. The broad pension agreement is a prerequisite for the sustainability of the pension system, for it to be maintained in the coming generations. I want to use my remaining speaking time to reflect a little on the steps we've taken before, and also a little over the steps we're going to take. We've been moving further and further away from the Pension Commission, with Sigbjørn Johnsen at the head, as its recommendation. Sigbjørn Johnsen is a fine finance minister, but I must say that he was a leading director of the Pension Commission. I must say that I should occasionally wish that Sigbjørn Johnsen could hear more about Sigbjørn Johnsen. Then I think a lot in Norwegian policy would be better. The Pension Commission clearly recommended a new pension scheme with a flexible retirement age for all, from 62 to 67 years. This should be a substitute for the AFP, which did not apply to all. Today we have a pension scheme where everyone can go off early, but where someone gets more to go early on than others. The Pension Commission also recommended a solution with simplification of public sector occupational pension models and the funding of the State Pension Fund. Today, we are adopting a solution that does not initially contribute to simplification, but which provides an opportunity – a very important opportunity – for this in the long term. On the other hand, the funding has still not come in. The list could have been made longer, but I'm not going to embarrass Sigbjørn Johnsen by boasting more of his former tricks. Since the beginning of the 1990s, the right has been in favour of changing public service pension models from gross solutions to net solutions. Today, when we do not just vote in favour of the majority solution in this case, that is, our solution that we have agreed on in this case, but are also satisfied with the compromise that the government parties have reached, it is not least because the settlement parties clearly say that the future pension model in the public sector should be a net-based application model. I hope and expect the government from this experience having sufficient back coverage to work for such a solution. I also hope, and expect, that the employee organisations will capture the strong signal from the majority of the Storting, even though of course I have respect for the division of labour between the Storting and the employee organisations. What are we really talking about? We want a good pension system, which ensures the security of the population and predictability of the economic conditions. We want a pension scheme that rewards work, where it really pays to work. It's through the device in the pension models we can get this to. That's exactly why, as politicians sometimes say, it's a central labour incentive when increased labour input gives you an increased pension down to the first dollar, or another way: it always pays off to work. Then there's been two bumps in the way. The first has been the question of constitutional protection. There our attitude has been quite clear, and that is that constitutional protection is a legal issue. We politicians must assume that the government has taken the best judgements based on the best available information and in that way has provided sufficient and good enough information to the Stortinget that we can say that we believe that the decision we are making is within what the Constitution says. The second is that in committee we have mainly worked to mitigate some very unfortunate and, as I understand it, also unintended consequences of the Government's proposal in the proposition. From the Right, there have always been two key points in the work on the Pension Reform. First, it has to be that the work always applies to everyone. Secondly, it must be a fundamental premise to provide predictability for those who are in a phase of working life in which retirement is assessed. It is simply not reasonable to make dramatic changes in the assumptions of those who consider to retire shortly after the Storting has changed the law. Unfortunately, the proposition, as presented by the government, gave some such results, especially for groups of workers working in so-called state-owned establishments. It was almost like saying that those for whom the AFP was really created, the laborers, would come out very badly – dramatically bad out – precisely because of some of the transitional arrangements that had been put forward. By making adjustments to the coordination solution, taking the time to help, and letting other schemes take the place, we have been able to come up with a solution where it does not happen. What is the background to the challenges faced by the government and the Storting today with public sector occupational pension schemes? It's worth staying a little bit at the end of the story. It was in its time the Workers' Party that forced through some of the formulations that made things difficult in this round, namely those that concerned the gross schemes in the public sector. It was also the Workers’ Party that in its time received formulations on the continuation of the country’s subsidy to AFP in the private sector, which has also contributed to making today’s treatment more complicated. We all remember – at least some of us – the TV documentary about Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg when he called the then LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla and said, "We got a hit for everything." Now, the ratio between them is a little less hearty, but it's going to be a different discussion. Why do I mention this? Well, first of all, because we have to remember that complicated questions rarely serve to meet simple populist solutions. If you take shortcuts early, they always come back as bigger problems. They have also done that in this case. The fact that today we are dealing with an attitude that points towards a new understanding between the conciliators of the need for a net based solution is, in this light, a kind of recognition of reality from the government parties, an admission that the Right appreciates very much. We would like to avoid the five lost years of consensus in this area. But it's better to come to the right solution late than to have a wrong solution for all futures, because it's the pension system we're dealing with here, which is the most important thing to maintain the sustainability of the welfare system for our descendants, and to make sure that it always pays to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2716	The agreed time for the morning meeting is now at hand. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is Karin Andersen. - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2752	The issue of a new pension system has a long history, and there are several broad similarities that underpin the changes we are dealing with today. We have agreed to create a pension scheme that takes more account of the bill that has to be paid by generations that come after us, as several have said. It's important. But it's more than changes in the pension system that need to be made to ensure a good future for those who come after us – I can only remind you of climate change. We also need to get a working life that allows more people to live at retirement age and stay longer than today. We see that working life is so tough that people get into trouble and get pushed out. We've created a new pension system that's very good for people who can stand for a very long time in the workplace, but at the same time we have a system that can be difficult for some of those who don't do the tough job so well. Therefore, what we do is important when we come to the treatment of disability – when that time comes. There has also been a measure with the pension scheme that it should be less complicated. I remember saying at the treatment last time that I think that is unfortunately not the case. It is also about the fact that there are long transition periods and coordination rules relating to very different schemes. Today we are dealing with occupational retirement provision and the AFP in the public sector, and here there are some differences between the private and public sectors that give rise to some problems, because that is not equal, and because the system that we now have in the public sector with regard to the AFP is not based on the same logic as the pension system and the AFP system we have in the private sector. At first I talked about that these are broad settlements and long processes. This is also about part of the long processes that have been in this area, and about the fact that there are negotiated agreements that we are now going to implement by law. SV, since we joined the government, has been involved in the pension agreement, and when we hear contributions from the representative of Røe Isaksen today, I am pleased that SV has been involved in this, because that means that we have different views on parts of it. But SV has certainly helped to influence the pension system in the direction we want it to, during the whole process. We want to keep doing that, because it's not like we're going to be the exact same. That's why the Progress Party, which is all the time outside of this, doesn't get any influence on it. I think that maybe the Progress Party should consider in the future, because that's actually the way you can get influence, and not by standing all the way out and losing everything you think. There have been many discussions today about constitutional protection. I want to refer to what the rapporteur said about it, and to what the Department of Justice says. With regard to the change that the Storting has made in the course of treatment, it is also that those who are taken by the new system that we are now adopting will be those who have no time to adapt to a new system, and that the rules as they were laid down came out very unfortunately. I am very pleased – I want to thank the entire committee and also the government for a good cooperation on this matter, because we managed to resolve it together – that we found a solution that I think is good for the employees, and that I believe in the long term also makes you follow the logic of the entire pension system in the future and can adapt to it. Finally, I would like to use just a few words on the subject on which the case rapporteur was also concerned, namely these women – mostly women working in small public sector jobs – who do not earn pension credits. It is an important theme to change this in the future, but it is also a responsibility that the social partners have to assume. I can only signal for my own part and for my party that we are ready to participate in the legislative changes that need to be made to improve this, if the social partners can unite on a new solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2775	I record that the majority of the introductory part writes that a pension is considered to be a «exposed salary» by the fact that those born after 1962 who have earned their rights under today's system also have reduced their rights. Does SV think that what is introduced here is a perfectly good principle, by allowing you to go in and take back part of the deferred salary that has been negotiated through previous agreements? The second question I have is if you start with a nurse who works 100 pst. position – she is lucky, she is 36 today – the representative Andersen believes that there is good reason to expect that she can stand in 100 p.m. position for she is 71 years old? That's just the way she manages to achieve 66 pst. in occupational retirement provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2782	It is the occupational pension that is deferred, and we relate to the agreements that were concluded on this in the collective bargaining agreement in 2009. It was said that you should have a gross arrangement. It is in line with what has been presented here today. It has also been said that the principles on which the pension reform is based should be introduced, i.e. age adjustment and indexation. What is in this case today is in line with what has been negotiated in the spring of 2009. On the second question, I signaled in my post that there must be changes in working life, so that more things to stand at a higher age than today, and no matter what kind of system we had put on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2789	When we talk about deferred pay, I'm also talking about occupational retirement. After all, you have earned old-age occupational pension until 2011 as well. But on top of another question that the representative Andersen was involved in his post. She points out that she is happy that SV has been involved and had influence after joining the government. If we go back to 2005, the Progress Party and SV agreed to oppose the introduction of the pension reform, and we outlined a number of consequences it would have, which SV also agreed at the time. Can the representative Andersen mention three simple areas in which SV has had influence and which have been changed in relation to what was said in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2798	The distribution profile in underlying population protection has improved because SV has been involved. I am absolutely convinced of that, I know that because I have been in the negotiations. There are also other points that have been important to us, and we have also been specific, related to this matter we are dealing with today, drivers to put in place the system that we now have here. Now that we are going to deal with the matter of disability, the leaders who have been given in terms of popular security will, of course, have to ensure that they are at the bottom of all the changes with the lowest level of performance. I am absolutely sure it will be very useful that SV is in the government constellation to get a good order here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2807	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2810	The issue we are dealing with today is part of the pension reform, a reform that will ensure a more modern and sustainable pension system in the decades to come. The background to the work on the whole reform, which has been going on since 2001, is that the pension system will face major challenges in the future. In the 2008 tariff settlement, the parties agreed that the adjustment of public service pension and public sector AFP would be part of the tariff settlement in 2009. The proposition and the setting we have to deal with today is a follow-up to this settlement. The parties then concluded an agreement to continue the current public service pension and public sector AFP. One of the adjustments to the proposal concerned the coordination of public service pensions with the private AFP. During the Committee’s consultation, it was found that a good number of people in separate public activities were at risk of losing significant amounts because of this coordination. Examples showed that lifelong pensions from 67 years could be significantly reduced by early withdrawals compared to current public service pension rules. Like the other majority of the Committee, the Centre considers that it is right for public service pensions to be coordinated with private sector AFPs. However, we want coordination to be phased in gradually. The solution reached by the majority is a transitional system which protects the first few years. These would otherwise have little opportunity to adapt to the changes being made. Thereafter, coordination is phased in gradually, as younger annual coals have had more opportunity to adapt to the effects of the pension reform. In addition, persons in exempted enterprises who now have a private occupational pension will have a greater opportunity to earn the private occupational pension the later they are born. In the Central Party, we are pleased that we are now taking care of those who would have come out unreasonablely ill with the original proposal. At the same time, the solution is in line with key principles of the pension reform: stimulating work and thus contributing to the sustainability of the pension system over time. This solution also fits well with the design and characteristics of new public and private AFPs. The annual pension increases on subsequent withdrawals and continued work, and the pension can be freely combined with work. In addition, we are pleased that not only the government parties, but also the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are included. It provides for the sustainability of the concrete adaptations being addressed today, and in particular of the said transitional coordination arrangements. Finally, I would like to say that the treatment of this matter shows the importance of having an open consultative institute on the Stortinget, that you get good insights, take them seriously and make adjustments across parties in cooperation with the government, and find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2827	Two of the main objectives of the pension reform was that the pension system should be economically viable, that we should think about the next generation, and that it should stimulate increased labour input. Since the spring of 2005, the size has discussed the new pension scheme several times, and it has succeeded both in achieving broad agreement on the principles behind each of the different schemes and in ensuring that a broad consensus has been reached on the individual legislative decisions taken. Unity is created by the fact that the party, with slightly different primary opinions, has jointly managed to negotiate to unity. The issue we are dealing with today is also a follow-up to the 2005 and 2007 pension agreement. This applies to AFPs for the employees of the public sector, and to people who are entitled to public pension schemes. This applies to the service pensions of a large number of employees. It wasn't obvious that there was going to be agreement between the parties behind the pension agreement, and we were also maybe a while in doubt if the government really wanted it to be unity. Nevertheless, I would like to commend the case spokesman, who has made a great effort to change the proposal in the proposition. He has also been open to recordings from others and has shown a real willingness to achieve unity, and I am pleased about that. The Christian People's Party was not pleased with the proposal that was presented by the government, but we are pleased that the work in the committee has produced a result that we can all put behind us. I think there's a point in itself that there's just a broad consensus about pension changes that are so extensive and that apply to so many people. Employee organisations disagree with the government’s interpretation and follow-up of the 2009 wage settlement contract. This was also evident during the hearings held by the Committee. The Christian People's Party believes it is unfortunate that there is so much disagreement about the interpretation of an agreement, and we think that the government should have found an understanding with the parties about interpretation. When that did not happen, we have found it difficult for us to do anything other than base the government's interpretation. Organisations also question whether all proposals contained in the proposal are in accordance with the Constitution. In the light of the judgements of the law departments and previous judgments of the Supreme Court, the government concludes that the constitutional protection will be protected. As the case spokesman said, this is something that, to the seventh and last, is likely to be a legal issue that needs to be resolved in the judicial system. The case-speaker did much good for the facts in his speech. So I'm not going to go into many of the details about this – but a few words. The service pension schemes of the State Pension Fund and similar schemes are service pension schemes to which both employees and employers pay contributions. Pure considerations of affordability and justice require employees to withdraw from the pension scheme when they become pensioners, even if the scheme is a gross scheme. However, various AFP schemes in the public and private sectors and coordination rules between them may become long-term problematic. It does not stimulate mobility in working life and allows individuals to lose pension funds by switching between work in the public and private sectors. I expect this to be a topic of discussion between the government and its employees' organisations in the future. The improvements that have been made in Stortinget when it comes to the introduction of transitional rules on the coordination of public service pensions with the private AFP plug-in, are not an ideal solution, but, in our view, will provide reasonable time for adaptation. An important element that helps to make the new people-scrupulous resilient is the adjustment of life. There was agreement with the payroll organisations last year that life-age adjustment should also apply to public service pensions. If this were not the case, the public would be screened for the intrusions that take place in the public domain. A guarantee has been provided for those who can become pensioners the first 15 years after 1 January 2011, which ensures that one gets 66 pst. final salary at 67 years of age at 30 years of ignition. In the public sector, it will be possible to work longer to compensate for the changes in life expectancy. However, such legislation will not stimulate work beyond this, as it will provide very little supplement to the pension. A short time ago, the Stortinget dealt with the adaptation of current disability benefits to old age pensions in the populace. The Christian People's Party then went against the retirement age adjustment for disabled people from 67 years of age. However, this was confirmed by the plurality in this hall. We will therefore not now repeat this proposal for those who have a disability pension under public service pension schemes. But let me stress that the legislation on disability will come back to us when a new disability allowance is to be treated. There are also protection rules that should be introduced for those who have received a permanent disability pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2850	Today, when the Storting deals with occupational retirement provision and public sector AFP adjustments, a new important element of the pension reform is in place. The proposal includes the State Pension Fund and other statutory schemes, but it is subject to similar changes being made to the public tariff schemes. The pension reform is based on wide-ranging settlements in the UK and contributes to ensuring a sustainable pension system in the future. The pension system is an important pillar of the welfare state and changes in the pension system will have an impact on many and for a long time in the future. I am pleased with the good cooperation with the settlement partners behind the pension reform also in the case that is being dealt with today. The pension reform shall apply to the entire pension scheme. Last year, the majority adopted a new old-age pension in the social security system. It shall be introduced, inter alia: flexible withdrawals from 62 years of age, live-age adjustment, new regulation rules and new rules for retirement. This historical decision requires adjustments to the supplementary pension schemes both in the private and public sectors. The Parties to the private sector have agreed on a new AFP scheme. In February, in this context, the Stortinget adopted the new AFP Act on private sector subsidies. New AFPs in the private sector are based on the same principles as new retirement pensions in the population. The Banking Law Commission has recently proposed changes to the private occupational retirement provision schemes adapted to the new flexible retirement pension in the social security system. It thus facilitates the flexibility of all pension systems for private sector employees. The Government will follow up the Banking Law Commission’s investigation with legislative proposals during the current year. The legislative proposal under consideration today is a follow-up to a public sector tariff settlement agreement in 2009, which essentially requires the continuation of current occupational pension and AFP. This implies that the AFP should continue to be an early retirement scheme and that, as a general rule, occupational retirement provision should not continue to be payable until 67 years. Government employees will thus not receive pension schemes that are as flexible as private sector schemes from 2011. It is no secret that the government wanted public employees also to have pension schemes with the same flexibility as in social security. Unfortunately, the negotiations on such a solution did not take place. Although current pension schemes are to be continued, the occupational pension scheme is to be subject to living adjustments and new pension regulation rules, as indicated in the 2005 pension agreement. In addition, it is necessary to adapt the coordination rules to the introduction of flexible old-age pensions in the social security system. I believe that the proposal under consideration today is in line with the 2005 Storting pension settlement and the 2009 tariff settlement agreement. The retirement adjustment means that public service pensions, such as retirement pensions in the population, are reduced by a given retirement age if life expectancy increases. The legislative proposal thus implies that the living adjustment is carried out without a distinction between generation before and after 1 January 2011. I have registered that the employee organisations have arranged for only a pension to be earned after 2010, which is to be adjusted for life. The organisations believe that pensions earned before 2011 have to be calculated without living adjustments. Such a pension calculation would have largely protected public employees for life expectancy adjustment in the early years. An individual guarantee is provided to ensure that the total pension, after adjustment to the standard of living, is 66 pst. of final wages and salaries in the case of full earnings. The guarantee means that the protection of acquired rights by the Constitution is not put at the head. The legislative proposal applies to annual coals up to and including 1953 coals, which are intended to maintain in full the current vesting rules in the public interest. The government will come back with a bill for the younger coal. These will be subject to new generation rules, so that there is a need for a greater reconversion of the coordination rules. It follows from the recommendation that the majority of the Committee agrees with the Government's proposal that public service pension should continue to be coordinated with private AFP, but considers that the proposed coordination should be phased in gradually. There has been contact between the Committee and the Ministry on the phase-in phase-in. The proposals of the majority shall take into account, inter alia: persons in the private sector who have a long seagoing service in the public sector and who have a short period of time left for retirement. These will get a pension in line with what they would get today, if they had to leave early. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the positive fact that the parties behind the pension agreement in Stortinget have reached agreement on the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2886	I want to ask the Council of State about the coordination rules, which are still very unclear to me. Today, occupational retirement provision is calculated on the basis of the pension basis reported in the pension scheme. In the new AFP, it's actually making up up up to 7.1 G. This means that if you are in the public sector, for example. have earned 350 000 kroner and that in the private sector later have, for example, been paid. 500,000 kroner in salary, you're going to get a difference. Does this not mean that this proposal is designed to break completely with today's coordination principles by not having a notional calculation advantage in the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2893	What we have put forward with this proposal is that the public sector workers retain the gross guarantee – a guarantee of 66 pst. That's the guarantee they get. It is true, as it is said, that the coordination advantage, including the fictional advantage, will not be guaranteed. The guarantee relates to 66 pst. final salary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2898	What is my question is: as today's coordination rules are defined, a pension that has not been earned at the same time cannot be coordinated. By reporting on public service pensions – let's say – an income base of NOK 350 000, sometimes starting to work in the private sector, for example. a salary of 500 000 kroner, which is 150 000 kroner in difference that has not been earned at the same time, but which is coordinated by the government's proposal. If this is not contrary to the coordination rules, my question is, and I expect an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2905	What we have presented is coordination between public and private pensions. What we're saying is that you have a guarantee for the 66 pst. of the public scheme. Then we make a transitional arrangement in view of the situation of having worked in both the public and private sectors in relation to how this would turn out otherwise. Also in that system, the fictional distribution will lie inside, if I understand the question correctly. You want it up to 85 pst, and then phase it out slowly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2910	Some of the reasons why we have had some challenges in this system are precisely this gross guarantee. The majority in the Committee say that a net solution should be pursued, including for the public sector. My question is, how will the Council of State contribute to the fulfilment of the majority’s wish to move towards a net solution in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2917	As the representative stresses, it is a majority, including the party I represent, who want to move to a net arrangement. I, as a member of the government, have to deal with the agreement you negotiated in 2009, but I can assure you that this government will also work and do what we can in discussion with the parties to get where we want to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2924	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2927	This is an important day for future pensioners in the public sector. It is a big matter, which has been difficult to deal with. I am happy to record that the parties involved in the pension agreement have been constructive and sought the good solutions. The broad agreement between 2005 and 2007 has continued, and that is good. The matter is complicated and detailed, and it has taken time to get into it. For a beginner it is useful and enjoyable to experience good political craftsmanship on the part of the majority and good cooperation with the ministry. It is also useful to record the policy lines of the Stortinge this year. Before the elections, the bourgeois side promised that they would gather on the major issues of principle. They have not drawn close to each other, rather on the contrary. In major and important matters, there is a gap between the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. I note that the Progress Party has abdicated in the field of pension policy. In one of the most important areas of future welfare for individuals, they are not included. The lot, which would change Norway in a hundred days before the elections, will have more investigation. Having been a ‘pensioners’ friend’ for several years, they have not been able to support a concrete model in this important matter. The attitude of the Advance Party is very little about its own policy, and that may not be so strange. Their pension policy is not easy to get wise. Does the Progress Party want everyone to have a minimum common pension? Should pensioners in the Progress Party world be able to work alongside the pension? Should they be able to leave when they're 62 and get AFP? The progress party refers to previous settings, where we, among others, read that the AFP should only apply to the wearers, that it should not be possible to combine the AFP and work, yes, in the 2009-2013 principal programme, to remove the entire AFP scheme for public employees. They refer in the case to investigations from the magazine ‘We over 60’, but it would have been more interesting to see a table where the Progress Party showed how their pension policy would affect a labourer in the public sector. The Progress Party publishes in this setting that they dissociate from the pension policy It might have been tempting for anyone to sit on the sideline, to put their hands and point to the government or the parties or ask for more investigation. It is a challenging matter for the Storting, as it has been for the parties. The parties disagree on the interpretation of the elements of the agreement, which have been discussed by several parties. We can see that good arrangements still remain for part-time workers, mainly women, with working hours less than 14 hours a week. This is important, and I expect the parties to address this issue and find a good solution, because I expect that there are more than me who believe that we simply cannot have it like this. But unlike the Progress Party, the other political parties were committed to finding solutions and the scope of the case. Therefore, the Storting can today adopt changes in the law that provide good pensions for future pensioners, while meeting the challenges of the future. For the Workers' Party, it is important to create policies, not only on the basis of here-and-now needs, but also on the basis of the challenges ahead, and to create a society capable of creating well-being even when more and more of us, over several years, are drawing more out of the Community fund, and when the number of people paying in for each pensioner, which in 1967 was 3.9, is expected to be 1.8 in 2050. Life expectancy is expected to increase by almost four years, from 82.7 years today to 86.3 years in 2050. Therefore, dietary adjustment is an essential tool for continuing to have a society with good and safe public welfare systems for all. Today's setting is an important tool in achieving this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2940	I think it's pretty interesting what happened at the end here. I would like to remind you of the proposal put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of ‘The government is asked to make proposals to convert public service pensions into net schemes during 2011.’ The Council of State has stood here today and confirmed that there is a majority in her party to switch from a gross to a net solution. The right has been a hot defender of the net order of this pulpit today. I expect when we vote on Thursday, that both the Labour Party and the Right support the proposals of the Progress Party and that it be adopted. That must be the consequences of what has been said in this room. As far as the last speaker is concerned, I would say that we want to clarify, but it is clear that the Workers' Party does not want to clarify in order to clarify all the questions that have not been answered well enough. I just want to remind you of the letter that the Council itself sent to the Advance Party. It says in answer to question No. 6:@item: intable Text context «As mentioned in this letter, different pension schemes in the private and public sectors will have a number of adverse consequences.» With regard to the matter we are dealing with today, it is admitted that it will have a number of unfortunate consequences. Let's get that series of unfortunate consequences up on the table and get to know them in Stortinget before we make decisions. I think it's quite crucial. It's actually absolutely necessary, at my discretion, that you get it. Then I register that the Center Party says that you are pleased with the change in the coordination law that was introduced in the majority parties, because it has just done something for those who came out worse. One who belongs to the 1948 coal, and until the 1953 coal, and he retires next year, 67 years, will get a pension rate of about 80 pst., or a little over 80 pst. of his final salary. It is almost the same level as in the private sector – much better than today’s system. While the nurse, whom I took up in the line exchange with the representative Andersen, will most likely have a pension plan of between 50 pst. and 55 pst. That's the bad guy, that's the one who's being deprived of a pension. Just because you adjust your life expectancy for the pensions earned before 2011, I also think that you will be able to earn your salary and pay off – which was one of my points in that question. So finally, I'm just recording that you've added up to a regulatory principle that no longer removes 0.75 pst, i.e. the income minus a factor deduction of 0.75 pst. But the way you calculate it, you get 0.78 pst. – a further impairment. So I ask you a question about whether SV has had such a great impact on the device.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2961	I think it is quite remarkable that the chairman of the Committee and the spokesperson of the Progress Party in this matter calls on the Stortinget to review agreements concluded between the parties. It's, in my opinion, a stiff piece. The representative of Eriksson totally overlooks the conclusion of an agreement between the public sector parties in 2009, which is binding and which requires respect for the Storting. Equally eye-catching is the fact that the Progress Party today has made it clear that they want to introduce a retirement age of 62 years with the freedom of all pensioners to work as much as they want afterwards. I would like to see the proceeds calculation for such a proposal. Obviously billions roll here, and it undermines the sustainability of a future pension system, nothing less.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2969	Robert Eriksson has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2972	The Party of Progress shall not duplicate any type of negotiation. As far as I know, none of the parties have demanded to have their life-adjusted occupational pension earned before 2011, rather on the contrary. That's what I'm standing here saying from the pulpit. The second point is that in the case of the phase-in model, as it is so well called, as it was agreed on 4 June at the Prime Minister's office, it is not the model that has been out of consultation with the social partners, nor has it been the subject of negotiations. However, the negotiations carried out by the Progress Party provided a detailed analysis of how these principles should be properly observed. They wanted to keep the order of the day. That's what was the starting point for the parties, if you go in and read about the wage settlement in 2009. It takes the Advance Party over, and we're still warm defenders of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2979	The representative, Eriksson, apparently has a poor memory since he has not realized that all the organisations involved in the hearing, including the Employers’ Association Specter, called on the majority of the Committee to find a better arrangement for the so-called exempted groups so that they did not suffer a large pension loss. That call has been followed by the majority, unfortunately without the support of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e2984	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox The issues that now remain on the map are second readings, and the president assumes that there will probably be no debate in the cases. [[Fotation, see page 4102]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3002	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3018	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3034	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3050	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3066	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3082	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3098	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3114	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3130	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3147	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3163	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3179	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3195	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3211	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3227	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3243	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3259	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3275	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3291	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3299	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 41 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3537	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3547	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3753	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3763	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3771	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case that discusses all aspects of the legislation, including the purpose of the depreciation, the delimitation of the depreciation group, the depreciation rates themselves and the depreciation models, the use of depreciation to promote environmentally friendly operations, and to make concrete proposals to strengthen the depreciation rules as a business policy.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e3798	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Jørund Rytman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left motion No. 4, by Mr Jørund Rytman, on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, says: ‘The government requests the promotion of corporate governance for public enterprises with a view to introducing the same corporate governance requirements for public administration activities as for public limited-liability companies’.» Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: «The government asks the Government to amend the public limited-liability company law so that gender representation in the board is required only in listed companies.» In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be put on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4600	Paragraphs 2 to 18 and 2 to 19 and the seventh paragraph of Section 5 to 6 shall be deleted. The party of progress and the Right has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4616	It is then added throughout I, the other proposals for amendments under III and the new seventh paragraph of Section 9-11. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4630	It is voted over VII's new section 2-3. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4644	The President will then alternately allow the vote between the V §6-1 third paragraph of the vote and proposal No. 2, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 13 June 1997 No 45 on public limited-liability companies, the third paragraph of Section 6-1 shall be replaced by the following: The Executive Director may not be elected as a member of the board of directors.’.» [[public stock law]] [[3]] The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4665	The President will then alternately allow the vote between Section VI, Section 1-6, first paragraph, and Proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 56 on annual accounts, etc. [[Accounting Act]] is amended as follows: Paragraph 1-6, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Small enterprises are those subject to accounting obligations which do not fall under paragraphs 1 to 5 and which at the balance sheet date do not exceed the limits of two of the following three conditions: 1. sales income: SEK 78 million, 2. balance sheet total: NOK 39 million, 3. average number of employees in the financial year: 50 annual works.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4697	It shall be weighed over the rest of V, VI, VII and VIII and the whole of II, IV and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4707	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4717	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4725	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Right and Left motion No. 2 by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Mr Arve Kambe, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, 4, from the representative Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, says: ‘The size of the scheme assumes that the requirement for evidence of hard work on values and services resulting from sports is withdrawn and that, as a result, it becomes the central organisation to document the scope of voluntary efforts on behalf of the total mass of members.’;» Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The government asks the Government to present a new case to include sports and cultural activities, as well as other voluntary teams and organisations, in the VAT system, so that they receive a zero rate for outbound billing and a full deduction of inward invoices.’ [[normally 25 pst.]] Proposal No. 4, from the left, says: ‘The government is asked to present a new case to integrate sports and cultural activities, as well as other voluntary teams and organisations, into the VAT system. The new proposal must be designed in such a way that all sport is exempt from VAT on ticket sales, purchase, rental and sale of players and that it must be possible for museums, galleries, amusement parks and entertainment centres to have free access, but nevertheless enter the new VAT system.» In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be put on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4758	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 19 June 2009 nr. 58 on value added tax Turnover and dissemination of services in the form of access to theatre, opera and ballet performances, concerts, circuses, travelling tivoles, screening services, dance events with live music, data gatherings and similar events aimed at children and young people are exempted from the law.» [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4952	The second paragraph of Section 2-1, Section 5-11, Section 6-29, second paragraph, new letter f, Section 14-3, third paragraph and Section 15-1, sixth paragraph. The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4967	It is then added to the other paragraphs under I and the whole of II and III. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4981	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e4995	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5003	During the debate, 33 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 2 and 3, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 4, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6 and 7, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 9-12, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 13 and 14, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Right, proposals Nos. 15–21, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 22–33, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 15, from the Christian People's Party, says: «The government is asked to make proposals for amendments to the tax law that involve deduction so that companies that have made environmental investments do not receive a higher total burden than companies that have not made such investments.» Proposal No. 21, from the Christian people, saying, «The government is asking the government to raise the wage-earning obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to $8,000 per year. employed.’ Proposal No. 3, III and IV, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, reads: ‘III The Government is asked to lay down an amending regulation to the Regulation of 19 November 1999 No. 1158 Regulation of the Tax Code so that the maximum hourly rate is removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5457	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-20, from the Christian People's Party. As regards proposal No: 17, there is no voting on III in this meeting, as previously referred to. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5588	The proposals are then put to the vote. 13 and 14 from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5656	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-12, from the Right and the Left. As regards proposal No: 11, there will be no voting on III in this meeting, as previously referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5796	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5830	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the right, Christian party and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5895	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5926	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e5958	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. As regards proposal No: 3, do not vote for III and IV in this meeting, which has already been referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6022	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6769	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6781	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6789	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the VAT and commercial instruments in order to improve the framework conditions for enterprises carrying out eco-friendly re-use and repair activities, and to present a case to the Stortinget to that effect in the context of the submission of proposals for the 2011 government budget.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6854	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6867	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6881	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6929	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6942	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6956	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e6964	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, no. 1 and 2, by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e7933	The President will alternately allow voting between the vote and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 107 L is returned to the government.» [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e7949	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e7963	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e7971	The size then goes to voting in the case no. 23-37. All of these matters are the second reading of the law. In order to save time, if the Storting does not have strong objections to it, the President will now make an overall examination of these matters. So we're going to vote on these things together. There have been no protests against it. There are no comments on any of the legislative acts from Act No 53 until Act No 67. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at second reading, and all of them will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e7987	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 25 May 2010: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with its own case on the effects of short-trade on the markets, based on the experience gained after the financial crisis. The need for drastic measures such as the introduction of temporary bans must be part of this review.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e8006	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right in the Stortinget meeting on 25 May 2010: ‘The government is asked to initiate a common European/international approach to any regulation on short selling.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e8024	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party at the Stortinget meeting on 25 May 2010: «The government is asked to draw up and propose a mechanism for financing the control of prospectuses in which the compensation of profits or losses is charged exclusively to the undertakings using the services.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-14.ana.ud2102e8043	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 25 May 2010: ‘The Government asks the Government to await the imposition of administrative penalties for infringement of the notification obligation after the Storting has discussed the overall issues related to this as an instrument.’
