ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e26	The representatives of Sylvi Graham, Gjermund Hageseter, Dagfinn Høybråten, Øyvind Waksdal, Ingrid Heggø and Ola Borten Moe, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hedmark County: Farahnaz Bahrami For Hordaland County: Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad and Filip Rygg For Uppland County: Kristine Kvam For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Knut Magnus Olsen For the counties of Troms: Martin Henriksen For the Westfold counties: Heidi Ørnlo and Morten Stordalen Two permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on Welfare Permit of the Representative Jenny Klinge from 14 April onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on Health Permit of the Representative Irene Lange Nordahl from 14 April until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the Vara, for Møre and Romsdal County Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, and for Troms County Peter Ørebech, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e112	Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland and Peter Ørebech are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e120	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e123	I am delighted to promote a proposal by the representatives of Olemic Thommessen, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself on the equal treatment of public and private providers of child protection services and the establishment of a web portal. Then I have the pleasure of promoting another proposal for a representative, from Olemic Thommessen, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, on a review and strengthening of the supervisory system in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e130	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e133	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal to introduce a common Norse imamutation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e138	The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e142	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am pleased to make two representative proposals: one on measures to increase the use of electric cars, and one on a better collective offer in urban areas with more frequent departures and lower rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e147	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e169	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Grete Faremo, Erik Solheim and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. Then we start with the first main question, from the representative Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e178	My question goes to Minister of Defence Grete Faremo. On Saturday, on the NRK, we could see an entry under the vignette: «Discovers its own top secret war headquarters – online.» The article revealed that with simple online searches, there is a great deal of information about the top secret war headquarters where the Government and others will stay in the event of war. On Monday we could again see a similar NRK entry, this time about strictly secret information that was openly available on the Internet. This time it was about the number of employees in the Intelligence Service and a number of names of key staff in the online service that were open. The fact that this type of sensitive and detailed information is so readily available is evidence of a low level of safety and threat-oriented thinking among those responsible. The fact that the trade unions themselves are making such losses is extremely alarming. What is the response of the Council of State to the fact that this type of information is so readily available, and what will the Council of State do to remedy the damage that has occurred and prevent this kind of information from being made available in public space?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e189	It is tempting to make a small remark that it is almost nice to be called to this pulpit to talk about questions relating to transparency in the defence, perhaps even too much transparency, given some of the questions I have been asked about too much secrecy relating to the services I have and have been responsible for. First, I want to say that Norway is an open society. The defence is part of this, but must nevertheless take some important precautions and perhaps also require special solutions in some areas. Here we talk about the reporting of ordinary employer and organisational information to government registers – information and registration for legitimate purposes, which covers both the needs of society for transparency, the need for employers to ensure their information and the need for employees to secure their rights through information contained in public registers. Despite this, it is quite correct that the questioner points out: there is a need not least for parts of the defence to ensure the best possible information. So far, we have not found solutions with individual registry holders related to the challenge of being able to connect this information. It's clear that we're going to get to grips with this, and this, of course, will focus on my side. We need to find good solutions that ensure both the service and the individuals involved, for example. Intelligence and other parts of our special force.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e198	I'm glad that the Minister of Defense doesn't run his bureaucrats to the rescue and defend them in thick and thin in terms of this kind of thing. But what amazes me is that the government has not taken the initiative to create special tax information and employer information schemes for staff related to this type of service. There must obviously be a need, since the information sent to Brønnøysund and other tax and employment-related procedures can contribute to the development of important and sensitive information. Then my question is: Will the government take an initiative to make special arrangements for people who are associated with secret services, where it is not good for wrong information to go astray?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e205	I am primarily concerned with finding a practical solution to protect the sensitive information that we manage in the Ministry of Defence, which we have registered in the various registers. When we have so far not found an understanding with the individual registry owner, I will not exclude that it can trigger an initiative that goes beyond the needs of the Ministry of Defence. But in this case, it is important, on my part, that we find a solution for those parts of our service that need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e210	There will be two follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e213	It seems to me that the Council of State is taking a little light on this matter. It is clear that Norway is going to be an open society, which is something the opposition has repeatedly called for — more openness, which is so often spoken of. But here we have a case where strictly classified information that was definitely not going to get on the road, ended up on the road. It's the reverse procedure of what's the government's own doctrine. Is there anything else that is not revealed by the media in this matter? And will the Council of State now – as it has done irreparable human and economic damage – ensure that the Storting is properly informed as quickly as possible about the extent of this façade?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e220	I want to refute the claim that I take this easy. And with regard to the indication of possible adverse effects of this information, I do not know where the representative Kristiansen takes the information from. What's important, from my point of view, is that we have a technological development that, first of all, is a reality, and that gives us an opportunity to connect information, which allows us to reveal sensitive information where it's not supposed to happen at all. It's important to me that we therefore find solutions to this that are both sufficient in a technological reality, and that have duration in them, such as, for example, also ensures that organisational changes, which have also been part of this issue, do not compromise the security of data protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e227	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e231	I must also say that I think the answers from the Minister of Defence suggest that this is a little trivial, that it is the question of linking up registers, which is the problem. The problem is that some of those responsible for this add information to the National Archives that is open to the public. The problem is that information is sent to the Brønnøysund Registry about the number of employees in the E-service. This does not have to do with just connecting registers. I hope it doesn't have to do with the fact that, in order to let the Council of State answer the question of transparency in the defence, it sends the kind of information around. So my question is, is there any legislation that is wrong, or is it the administration of the legislation that has completely failed in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e238	There must be no misunderstanding about that I take this seriously. But I want to express a basic understanding of the need to register administrative information, and that technology actually provides the opportunity to link information, which perhaps neither legislator nor others who develop legislation, so separately when it was done. We must therefore ensure that we find a practical solution to this challenge. I will ensure that this is done – that initiatives are taken to do this, including with both registry owners and other stakeholders. Therefore, saying that this is related to whether you take it seriously or not, in my opinion, is not correct. We need to be able to find solutions that link the different considerations, both to record the correct information and to comply with the transparency requirements that are also set out in this room related to administrative information, and then to find a protection solution for the information needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e245	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e248	My question also goes to the Minister of Defence. The price the opposition has to pay for having a majority government is clearly that you are not particularly involved or informed by the Government. It is a continuous picture, and in particular from the Ministry of Defence, at these times. Some time ago, around the Skah case, we were told by the Minister of Defense himself that there was an unculture within the Defence. We have had today's first question about war headquarters and the publication of strictly classified material around the E-service, etc. We see a passive approach to involving Stortinget in what you can do to improve the conditions. My main question is on today's Evening Post Resolution with a reference to former Chief of Defense Sverre Dien, who has clearly warned at a very early stage – just before he left, six months ago – in a basic, comprehensive note to the Ministry of Defence against the fact that we have a military education in Norway that does not hold a goal. He has pointed out this very comprehensively. The present chief adviser to the Government states that ‘when it becomes serious, only the professional good enough’. Now we get that exemplified by the fact that the next quota for Afghanistan is essentially just going to be made up of professional soldiers. He says, "Ethically, it is wrong to send Norwegian soldiers in the fight against much better prepared forces." This is a situation we can meet at home, and we are definitely going to meet outside daily. Why does the Council of State not take the initiative to involve Stortinget in a discussion of how we can improve the initial service – not abolishing but improving the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e259	Firstly, it is important for me to state that we are sending well-prepared soldiers to Afghanistan, and secondly, it is important for me to state that there is agreement in this Chamber on the duty of protection in Norway, and that the two questions do not mean that we can compromise on the requirements for preparation before leaving for international operations. The military contribution of the defence in Afghanistan today consists mainly of command and specialists. An example of this is the so-called mentoring team, which consists mostly of officers to guide their Afghan colleagues. The composition of our current strength contribution therefore does not imply a large contribution of ordinary infantry isolates, regardless of their background. This is a matter that has been dealt with here in the Storting both last year and this year, related to the composition of our contribution to Afghanistan, and how it has also changed in recent times. Soldiers who have served in Afghanistan after termination of protection have normally completed a full 12-month initial service, followed by three to six months of so-called mission-specific training. It implies that all of our soldiers, including those who do not come from professional units in Norway, will be at least as high as foreign professional soldiers who are first sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e266	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but the answer is not very satisfactory. Because we are in a situation now where we simply don't have soldiers who have earned first-time service that can make sure that we have robust capacity when the crucial situations arise. That's why, in the next period, we're sending almost only professional soldiers down to Afghanistan. In fact, one can wonder whether this very serious report, which has been sent to the Council of State six months ago and which is repeated today in the evening post, has been disregarded, or whether it has also been sent to the National Archives, or where it may be located. We are broadly in agreement with today's obligation regime, but when the leading advisor turns on the warning light, we have to be willing to discuss improvements to a situation that then until those degrees are defined by the former head of defence. Will the Council of State take an initiative to share its thoughts on improvements with the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e273	I guess I don't see the former Chief of Defense Sverre Dien coming here with new thoughts. I have probably also perceived it as having a central role in the preparation of the matters that have also been dealt with in this Chamber, for example. the long-term plan. Therefore, all the essential aspects, including the challenges and limitations highlighted in this view, were addressed in depth both in the Government and here in the Grand Duchy. That's why I started my answer instead of saying that this discussion is not about finding compromises on the requirements for preparation that have to be made by personnel sent out to international operations, and that we can still maintain our yes to the duty of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e278	There will be three follow-up questions – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e281	There is a significant degree of contradiction between the Government's policy and the Minister of Defence's response. On the one hand, we have a former head of defense who says that we need more professional soldiers, because they have the competence to do so, and on the other hand, the Minister of Defense who says that we also need protective forces. But as we've seen the government's real defence policy, with real cuts, with a decrease in the number of days of practice, with an increased focus on technology that actually makes you need a stronger degree of training/practice, the Minister of Defense puts his own arguments in mind, and you end up strengthening those points related to the importance of professional soldiers. The essence of the question is how the Minister of Defence has intended to reverse his own policies and increase both the professionalism and the training of our vulnerable teams, so that they can be used as best as possible and also in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e288	It is a little strange to hear this question from a representative from the Right, because the Army has never been as small in number as when the Right left the government offices in 2005. But what I'm talking about is simply the need to find balanced solutions, where we both use the work force and take care of the duty of protection. I mean that with both the experience of the contributions we have had, and the quotas that we are now putting together have the ability to do, and we must also be able to do that in the future. So I don't rule out that the requirements for top skills in the defense can also increase the number of recruits, and that we also get a new discussion about what is the right number in the duty of protection. But my starting point is that we have to be able to find good, balanced solutions and actually have two thoughts in our head at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e293	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e297	It's a little hard to get what the Minister of Defense here says. Firstly, it has been confirmed here today by the Minister of Defence that almost only specialists and officers are used for operational purposes in foreign operations. Furthermore, only foreign operations are currently operational. When we see that other European countries have now phased out the duty of protection and are based on a professional defence, it becomes strange – it becomes strange – to have coherence in it when the Minister of Defence stresses that the protection obligation regime should be continued, especially when the end of the previous answer was that the number of armed forces should also be increased. There is natural reason to ask what to do with a protective army when only professional forces and specialists are used in operational services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e302	Now I said that the guardians only go out after they also have surgery-specific training. I also said that I cannot rule out Norway getting more jobs. I guess my second point is actually -- that's right -- that we've chosen a different solution here than for example. Sweden, which has terminated the compulsory protection scheme. In that case, it's not the first time we choose a different solution than the Swedes. I think here again that it is important to find good solutions for the composition of our contribution, for example. to Afghanistan in the light of the problem we are going to solve. It is quite right that we strongly support the construction of Afghan capacity, and therefore we have sent out a larger proportion of well-qualified commands to do that job in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e307	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e310	I was actually going to ask the question a little bit more philosophically, because I think the Minister of Defense is very careful in his assessments, but let me ask the question a little differently: from the time she has now been Minister of Defence, does she see the need for any change in Norwegian policy on the question of protection obligations, with regard to our international obligations, which we will probably also face in the future? Does she see anything in the composition of the security force that should, if necessary, be reconsidered?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e315	I feel the duty of protection as firmly anchored both in this hall and in the population. I think it's also central to – call it – the contract that the Defense should and should have with society. That we have nevertheless made adjustments to the duty of protection in order to adapt it – call it – the professional requirements made in the light of the fact that the defence has new and modern capabilities are important. The fact that we have arranged and dimensioned the duty of protection according to the resources allocated to the defence is also important and correct. Although in the short term I do not see a new discussion about the duty of protection and its content, I cannot, of course, rule out that I will be able to come back to this room with it, but as I said, I do not see the basis for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e322	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e325	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. In January 2008, the climate agreement was concluded — a historic and important agreement based on the knowledge and conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We agreed that the greatest effort should be made at home, with a reduction of 12 million-14 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent when the forest is kept out. Through climate change 2020, the Government has been given a picklist of 160 actions to implement the objective of the climate agreement. When State Council Solheim received Climate Action 2020, the Council of State said about this report that it was a quantum leap forward for climate policy here to land and the best research base that has ever been done around the world. This statement tells a lot about what the Government thinks about climate change, and also what the Minister of Environmental Protection thinks about climate change. 12 million to 14 million tonnes shall be taken at home. Climate change says that 6 million of these tonnes can be taken through socio-economical measures, or at a cost lower than the future allowance price of NOK 350. This we must be able to say is low-hanging climate fruits, or, as the council itself says, it's probably a quantum leap if we put these 6 million tons of measures into action to reduce. It's a good idea to start with this, so my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State start with the simplest and cheapest measures, and will these be submitted to the Stortinget quickly and before the climate announcement, so that we can get started with the job? Because there's probably no time to lose to make this big quantum leap.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e341	Let me first thank Line Henriette Hemdal for raising a very important question. Climate change is a whole new basis for sensible climate discussion in Norway. So far there has been far too little debate about the Climate Change Course investigation. It's very harmful, in my opinion, because if there's not much debate now, it just means that we're pushing the debate in front of us until the moment we're going to make the different decisions. I think we can already foreshadow that it is not going to be a simple matter to implement the climate change action, no matter what part of the menu we choose, because almost all the actions that make sense to the whole, that make sense to Norway, that make sense to the world, will encounter some particular interest that will be skeptical of that particular action, but be too many of the others. So it's going to be a tough round when we're going to carry out a climate cure. That is why we should start the debate now, as it is said here, and not wait until 2011, when the full debate in the Stortinget will come. I initially agree with the questioner that it makes sense to take the cheapest and simplest measures first and then the others. Of course, the government will keep coming back to the Stortinget with measures that we believe have come so far in the investigation that they can be implemented. I also have the position that it would be a great strength for climate policy if, after this round of Climate Action, we could manage to do the same thing as we did last time, namely to find a broad settlement in the Stortinget. But it will be on the basis that the Government is continuously presenting measures. We are submitting a big message in 2011. Then we will have the full debate in Stortinget. Hopefully, this message can provide the basis for a new climate deal that will pin down what we are going to do at home by 2020. So we're also going to do mass abroad. There's no difference between what we do at home and what we do out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e359	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For the Christian People's Party, this is about being the good administrators, about using the resources we have in the country, and about developing technology. The Christian People's Party has made an effort in this area before, and we should like to join in and continue the debate. But it's not just about the debate, it's about the measures that are socio-economically profitable and that are cheap. It's doubling the bicycle share, it's electrification of the car park, it's phase-in of gas ferries, just to mention three of the measures that climate cure points to. The size will probably be brought up to date on this issue at a later stage, but I cannot interpret the Council of State anything other than that when he says that he will continuously follow up on this, yes, this will also be included in the 2011 budget, so that actions mentioned under this category could be started already in 2012, because these are important measures, and quantum leap measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e368	With regard to the measures proposed here, we are already in the process of phasing in electric cars. Load stations are now being built in many places in the country. And of course, an even more important work is being done, in the automotive industry, to develop batteries that last longer and that can be charged faster, which is the prerequisite for really rolling out the electric car in a mass range. Cycle paths are, as the questioner of course knows, under the Minister of Transport, but also on that point a lot is done. In the case of gas ferries, positive initiatives are being taken by individual companies in Norway, such as Eidesvik Offshore, for example, which have built gas ferries. But we'll definitely look at what we can do to speed up the faster development of it for larger parts of the industry. Let me just say in the end that the Government regards the Christian People's Party as a very good ally in climate policy, a useful driver who has occasionally come into a company of people who are less interested in climate policy Christian People's Party. On the part of the Government, we are at least very pleased with the cooperation with the Christian People's Party on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e379	There will be four follow-up questions – first Filip Rygg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e383	As an alternate for Hordaland and as a mountain people, I have been pleased to note that many of the measures that have an impact on the environment and prosperity of large cities are also considered to be very profitable socio-economic. The most profitable measures in the field of Climate Action are increasing efforts to provide collective services in the six largest cities, as well as the development of a coherent core network of bicycle traffic, which was also covered by the Council of State. These measures are intended to deliver a socio-economic benefit of DKK 9000 to NOK 25000 per year. tonnes of CO2. The benefits will mainly be due to the benefits of a better provision for public transport users. The completion of the main cycle road network in big cities is primarily a state responsibility, and I would like to continue a little bit in terms of budget. What does the Government think about the budget? Could the Minister for the Environment promise Storting to follow up on these concrete measures in the forthcoming budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e395	I do not know how often the questioner has experienced that half a year before the budget is presented, the Council of State is pushing ahead with its conclusions. This did not happen often in my time as a wholesaler – and of course I cannot do that either. Everyone knows that the budget that comes to the harvest will be a tight budget, where there will be no huge bets in many areas, but where one will have the primary purpose of stabilising the Norwegian economy. Then I'm interested in, within that framework, getting to many of those things the asking asker demand. Let me also point out that there are positive things happening. I think I've been in Bergen – which was mentioned here – every campaign since 1814. Every time, I made arrangements for the city track. Finally, I gave up the matter, I thought it was no longer possible to get it to. But June 22 this year opens the first section of the urban railway in Bergen. Congratulations to Bergen on that! It must be the beginning of the development of a much larger urban railway network in Bergen, and, of course, state authorities, in some form of a future splice team with others, must set up in terms of its development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e402	The President records that the Council of State has been running an electoral campaign for a very long time. Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e407	Good climate policy is not just about being the one that screams the highest, it's about being the one that makes the most realistic and feasible proposals. Looking at climate change, the climate crisis requires a CO2 clean Kårstø, which the Government has already put at risk. This will mean that the cost of meeting the climate agreement will have to be even higher, because other measures will have to be taken instead. The same is true if you're postponing Mongstad. In the case of biofuel investment, the Climate Action assumes that there is the greatest benefit to the transport sector. However, the gain is achieved because the CO2 emissions from production are allocated to the accounts of other countries, while one calculates all the gains into the Norwegian accounts – one just shifts the emissions. This is not a good climate policy. What is a fact is that one is unable to achieve the climate agreement and, at the same time, do what the Council of State just said, implement the good, cost-effective and inexpensive measures. Either it will be very precious, or one will have to break the climate agreement. And then the question is: does the Council of State insist on the climate agreement's demand to cut 15-17 million tonnes nationally, or will he be more pragmatic and do what makes sense at home – and the rest out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e424	One thing I agree with about the rhetoric of the Progress Party is that it's not about doing the loudest, but getting practical action. I wish the Progress Party were often a better partner in implementing actions that would work. Of course, the government is firmly committed to the climate agreement, of course we are going to implement it. And that's because credibility internationally -- by implementing a lot of what the Progress Party, possibly, supports us doing internationally -- requires us to do something at home, otherwise no one will have faith in what we're doing out there. But to deal with the glove, one of the real challenges that Solvik-Olsen is about biofuels. There is a possible Norwegian reduction of – if I do not remember correctly – 2 million tonnes in the climate course papers. However, it is also true that this will lead to an increase — not as large — in emissions in other countries. How this is to be weighed against each other is one of the many debates we have to take on the climate deal. Of course, emissions reductions at home that lead to emissions increases elsewhere can not only be considered as a pure reduction in emissions in Norway, but also as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e433	Bjørn Lødemel – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e436	It is interesting to right that the Council of State wants more debate on Climate Change. You have all the possibilities left of the government. The question is whether there is an internal conflict in the Government that will prevent that discussion from taking place. The climate agreement is the basis for climate policy. It is thanks to the parties to the agreement in the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party that the Government has been able to conduct an offensive climate policy. But this is just on the paper. It's the government that's responsible for following up the climate deal. Unfortunately, the government has much to answer for in domestic climate policy. The Climate Communication has been postponed until 2011. The time of moon landing with full-scale clean-up at Mongstad has been postponed indefinitely. Of the quota purchases that are made, it's probably just forest planting in New Zealand that's approved. When will we see that the Government follows up all the points in the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e443	The government is fully implementing all points of the climate agreement. When the right has tried to do different forms of space to make it look like we don't, you've ended up with absolute trifles. We are in the process of implementing every single point in the climate agreement, but some of the questions require thorough work. Let me, of all the things mentioned here, take Mongstad. It is not that the government has postponed Mongstad indefinitely, but it is such that you cannot adopt the exact time when technology is being developed. I have referred earlier in this Chamber to a very good slogan The Progress Party once had: the future is being created, it is not being adopted. It is not possible to adopt the absolute time of success in Mongstad, but it is possible to turn around every day to push on to get it to. That's what the government is doing, and we'll obviously come back to Stortinget with exact times for when we think it's possible to reach the different points in the phase-in of full-scale cleaning on Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e450	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e453	In short, under the red-green government, we have experienced that the wind energy target has been destroyed. It has become cheaper for some industry to pollute. The use of mobile gas-fired power plants has been put in place and a levy has been imposed on biodiesel. So my first question is, how does this harmonize with the objective of a significant reduction through national measures, as reflected in the climate agreement? My next question is: The council said to Line Henriette Hemdal here that he would come to the Stortinget with actions. My second question is: will this be done already in connection with the next budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e460	As I said to a former asker, it's not good cutback in the Storting to predict exactly what to include in future budgets, so I'm not able to do that. So there came a long list of measures that it's impossible to answer in a minute. I would like to respond to each of them, but it takes more than one minute. The basic thing is that climate change provides the framework for looking at the whole picture in terms of what is sensible to do in Norway, what is possible in Norway to do quickly, relatively cheaply and relatively easily, what will require major conversions, for example. in Norwegian commerce, Norwegian agriculture or Norwegian industry, and which must therefore be started now, but for which a full count will not be seen, by 2020. I will refrain from cheap polemics about how much happened in this area during the time of the Bondevik government. I think everyone knows that there's been a lot more happening now, but we're in no way satisfied, and we're going to keep up a high pace to achieve the goals that lie in the climate agreement, and to set new and stronger targets in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e470	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e473	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. For five years, the Government has promised to extend the emergency court, where animal owners are to be able to protect their domestic animals and dogs from attacks by predators. Nothing happened in the previous period, but when the new Soria Moria declaration was presented in the autumn of 2009, it was found that there would be a lower threshold to trap wolf and bear causing damage. The vice president of the Central Party then said to the Eastlanding newspaper that one was well pleased with the result of predatory attacks: ‘to facilitate the collection of pests and the discussion of stock targets.’; [[...]] The Progress Party supports this approach. Animal owners must protect their animals without being imprisoned, as we have seen some examples of recent years. In the last week, on the other hand, it has been possible to read a series of headlines in which the new rules for emergency workers presented by the Government reap sharp criticism. The government promised simplification and liberalisation. None of these points are taken into account, they are considered by the actors concerned. In the United Nations on 8 April, even the Central Party says that the bill is unclear, but would then clarify the proposal through comments. A lawyer said that it is not useful to clarify a law through comments – you have to make changes to the law. In the United Nations on 10 April, the Erling Sande of the Center Party is moving forward one step, saying that the Government's proposal has to go back to the government for review. What it reacts to is, among other things: the setting of new criteria for the situations to be assessed. One shall assess, as an animal owner, the stock targets of the animal attacking before any shot is released. You have to consider how high the fence around the area is before you can release a shot. It's referred to as remote reality, it's referred to as desktop law, and an entire nation is horrified. Will the State Council do as the Central Party wishes: take the case back and clarify the emergency court in line with the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e495	Let us start with what is the starting point, namely that the Stortinget has taken a decision on predatory policy, I think it was in 2004 – the predatory agreement – which states that we should have a double objective in Norway. It is a dual objective to have predators in Norwegian nature, and to have grazing in Norwegian nature. It is a very demanding dual objective, and that – with respect to reporting – very few other countries have. The reason why there are far fewer conflicts around predator policy in Sweden, for example, is that Sweden, for all practical purposes, has a single objective only for predators, and not for grazing. The fact that there are conflicts around this is natural, and some of the conflicts are also due to the success of the policy. We have received significantly more predators in Norwegian nature while maintaining grazing, and there have been several conflicts. On 19 February, the Government of the Stortinget promoted proposals for amendments to the emergency provision of the Nature Diversity Act. That proposal, which also Mr Solvik-Olsen had in mind, that if for a three-year period the stock of yorks, gloats and bears has been clearly above the stock target set by the Stortinget, access to traps of these species should be extended. But these are very difficult balances. I base my policy on the fact that I am absolutely sure that a very broad majority in Norway wants this dual objective. That's what American Vice President Spiro Agnew once called the silent majority – the silent majority. These are not the ones we hear most from in the debate, we hear most from the extremes. But I am absolutely sure here that there is a dwindling majority for – all polls also show that – the government's policy of maintaining this double objective. The Progress Party disagreed with this dual objective when the Stortinget reached this decision and remains so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e506	I see what the Council of State here says, as a cash rejection of what the Central Party in the media has said, namely, to get a clarification of the law – get a clarification of that. Too double the objective is a problem, because predators do not know political decisions. Having a double objective has meant that the Government has a ambiguous policy. This is not for the benefit of the animal owners. Therefore, we understand, the Center Party has now, with the support of the Advance Party, wanted a clarification, precisely so that we do not allow sheep owners to be put in prison because they have shot a bear that has attacked their animals. I'm a little disappointed that the Council of State doesn't see that problem, that there are human consequences as a result of an unclear government policy. The Swedes changed their emergency section a few years ago. It has not resulted in increased felling predators, but it has led to very clear and simple rules to which they should relate. It is not possible for an animal owner to assess all the premises of government policy. I ask again: will the Council of State go back to its office, take a review, and get a law in line with what the Central Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e517	Now Solvik-Olsen speaks for better knowledge, it must be. It is not such that it is forbidden to shoot a bear in an attack, as it is made here. It's a full opportunity for it when it's in an emergency situation. What's the dilemma, and I think everyone has to admit, is that the double objective is a difficult challenge that it's hard to get to work. It's a simple thing if you're just going to have sheep teams in the districts. It's a simple thing if you're just going to have predators, but it's hard to get to the combination of the two. But it's a dwindling majority in Norway, it's a large majority in this room and it's a unified government that wants to maintain this double objective. We base that on policy, and then we try to take on that basis the many challenges and balances that are in this matter. I'm going to Hedmark in a month – I had a visit by a large delegation from Hedmark just a few weeks ago – to be in close dialogue with animal owners, the different sheep and goat breeding teams and other interest groups in Hedmark to design policy as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e528	There will be three follow-up questions – first Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e531	The law that may be introduced makes it more difficult and many assessments need to be carried out in order to enable a predator to be killed. The main question maker was interested in some of it, including: it with fences and assessment of the stock target. The main problem is precisely the assessments to be made. Does the Council not see that those who are under attack and who are going to face such a situation are having problems assessing the urgency of the situation? A wolf attack, or a carrier attack for that matter, happens quickly, and you don't have time to read many paragraphs and study through a long-term guidance. The Council of State does not see that it is a problem to assess such an emergency, and how does the Council of State see that an emergency situation can be assessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e538	Of course, there are dilemmas for people who are in such a situation. There's no way to reject it. But there's an opportunity to trap a predator in an attack. But again, to get back to the main thing, the Progress Party disagrees with the Norwegian predatory policy, as a broad majority in the Stortinget stand behind, as the Government stands behind, and as I believe very many of the leaders of the Advance Party – not those who shout the highest – will also agree with us, namely that we want predators. We have international obligations to care for predators. I think future generations in Norway very much want us to have bears, wolves, royal eagles and other predators in Norwegian nature. But we can't do it if we don't go into the specific situations and find practical solutions – rather than saying, for all practical purposes, that we are not going to have predators in Norwegian nature, which are the conclusions of the Progress Party taking up again and again in the Stortinget. Here there is a substantive disagreement between the Government and the Advance Party. Then we're going to have a densest possible dialogue with animal owners to make it go around. This government has doubled its efforts in the field of predatory measures in relation to the government supported by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e547	Bjørn Lødemel – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e550	Another side of the same case applies to the emergency for the dog. On the stretch between Halden and Trysil, there have been reports of wolves attacking and killing dogs. On Boke Red in Eastfold a dog was killed by wolves near the world, on the tune. It was the children of the family who found the dog. The wolf had passed by earlier in the day, and he was tried to frighten away. On October 11, a moose dog was killed in Halden, 10 metres from the owner. He had shot and shot alert, but the wolf continued and killed the dog. Can the councils understand the despair of the children and the Boke Red family when they found the family dog's death and the repressed dog owner in Halden felt when he saw his dear dog being killed right in front of him? What will the Council of State do so that dog owners can defend their four - legged family friends?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e557	When asked if I can understand that despair, the answer is very simple: Yes. I have no problem understanding that despair. I have no problem understanding the despair of e.g. Sheep eggs in Hedmark, of which I have met many, and reindeer from the North Tributes and elsewhere, who experience part of their livestock being killed by predators. I have no difficulty in understanding the despair. No one thinks it's nice to see sheep or dead dogs in Norwegian nature. But again, we have a double objective, which also the Right agreed – I am very happy that the questioner does not attack it – to get to both of these things: predators and outlaws. With regard to the specific case of emergency vigilance paragraphs for dogs, we now want to look very carefully at the Swedish experience of this, and come back to Stortinget with that question after we have studied Swedish experience thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e567	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e570	After hearing the debate in the last few minutes, perhaps an idea could be to introduce a new emergency number. It might be a simpler measure than all the other government has proposed. The dual objective presents some challenges. The Council of State has also said that. Then it is important that we move in with anti-conflict measures. One of the simplest anti-conflict measures that are within this field of emergency for dogs is that in the event of a direct attack on the dog, the dog should be able to defend its dog. So now the Council of State says you're going to look at Sweden. Yes, the Swedes have introduced this, and the Government has been able to look at this for four and a half years. Now you have to spend even longer time looking at the Swedish experience. Swedish experience has been so good that a temporary regulation has become a final regulation. It is possible to use the law and regulations to reduce conflicts and allow predators to live. Why do you spend so much time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e579	With regard to the Swedish experience, I feel that I have already responded to it. We need to study the Swedish experiences thoroughly. There are also, of course, features of Sweden that are different from Norway, among others. Sweden has a large outing industry, and dogs are often used for outings. So there are things about Sweden that are different from Norway. We're going to look at this carefully and then come back to the question of dog. In the case of a new emergency number, which was mentioned, I would like to say that it is a long way to go what we are trying to implement. This government has doubled the cost of conflict mitigation measures in predatory policies. Among them is greater use of professionals who go into the situations. In Hedmark, where there are the largest conflicts around predators, but also in the North-Tronde Team and for that part in Eastfold and elsewhere – but Hedmark has had the biggest conflicts – we are now trying to speed up the efforts of professionals in situations where it is required, so that people shouldn't have to wait long for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e586	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e589	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. It is true that Great Norwegian encyclopaedia has been a matter not only in the last few weeks, but for many years alone, back in several periods of government. Former State Council Kristin Clemet had it on his table, and then chose not to provide support for further operations following an application from the Knowledge Publisher to continue publishing the dictionary. That time the discussion was a little different than today. There were some experiences that we had not yet reaped. At the time, it was thought that there would be a market to grow here, that there would be more players who would compete for good offers, and that perhaps based on the university environment or on commercial contexts – there were several possible market players who were then thought to work on knowledge dissemination, also on the quality of a lexicon. So the years that have gone since then have taught us something else, at least as I can see this. Not so many other actors deliver a product that is quality-secure, based on editorial thinking based on Norwegian circumstances. We see that the market laws in cyberspace are about the same as other market laws. It means, at least in my opinion, that we do not have a functioning market in this area. If that's right, everything should be in order for us to seriously evaluate whether this dictionary represents a value we're going to pass on. My question to the Council of State is: What is her analysis of the market situation related to this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e600	This situation of Great Norwegian encyclopaedia is now being analysed for themselves. They are now transferring the knowledge to a foundation. They have signaled that it will receive support from, for example: The Free Word Foundation and the Reserve Bank Foundation. They will then assess the situation in view of whether further operations are possible. What I've signaled is that the National Library can play a role in such a context. They have previously kept on their pages a dictionary from 1911, so that there can be current cooperation. What distinguishes Great Norwegian encyclopaedia from, among other things, Wikipedia, the contributors will be honored. It's a very expensive form of lexicon operation. If employees of universities and colleges wish to have a reference work with academic definitions in Norwegian, it may be relevant that they may contribute to such a lexicon. However, it is not relevant that Great Norwegian lexicons in their present form continue with a state lexicon support. I don't want to take the initiative on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e607	This I think was very positive tones from the Council of State, and I am very pleased about that. From the Right, we fully agree that we should not have any state dictionary. The problem for the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia is the cost of having a quality-assured version, because that means you have to have a slightly larger editor than you have if this is a hard-to-use project about like it is in Wikipedia. And if you're going to get material that has quality, you almost have to expect that it will also have to be paid for it. This means that there will be a cost there that will probably not be soluble in the market. In that respect, the Right believes that it would be reasonable if public authorities could also contribute to it in various ways. So the state council correctly describes the situation, it's now about finding good participants in such a setting. But many of these good participants will probably also be public, and therefore there will be a cost there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e614	There are two ways of providing state aid for lexicons. One is that the State wants to run a lexicon and conduct a tender. It has previously been rejected by a government where the Right was sitting. The other way is to develop a lexicon support in line with the press support. When we introduce a new type of aid, this must be notified through the EEA. This means that there must be legislation that can not only involve one actor. So if we introduce a state lexicon support, it might well be up to other actors to apply for this money. I'm not going to initiate state lexicon support, but I'm positive that the National Library is contributing to cooperation with the newly created Foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e621	Two follow-up questions are raised – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e624	Access to a Norwegian quality assurance knowledge base such as the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia is also at the highest level a question of education policy. The right has tried in several ways to deal with this with the Minister of Knowledge and Research, but is consistently referred to the Minister of Culture who deals with the matter on behalf of the Government. Before Easter, an initiative from the universities, led by the University of Tromsø, was taken to enable universities to join forces to operate a lexical Norwegian knowledge base. But that proposal was then cash shot down and rejected by the research minister Tora Aasland, who is responsible for the universities. Does the Minister of Culture's reply here today mean that the Minister of Research too may now have come up with new ideas and that the Government will look at the initiative of the universities with new eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e631	It is clear that the representative Aspaker has at least changed her position, because she was in the Ministry of Knowledge, or the former Ministry of Education, when this matter was dealt with last time, and in cash rejected by the State Council, Clement. No, the Ministry of Knowledge does not want to introduce a state lexicon support either. What I've said is that I'm positive if Norwegian staff at universities and colleges want to contribute, but it's not going to be relevant that this can be financed as a contribution, either from the Ministry of Knowledge or the Ministry of Culture's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e639	Ib Thomsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e642	In this case, the Council of State and the Party of Advancement have similar positions. I think that's very good. I understand that there's a little bit of a problem in the government just in this area. At least the Council of State has the support of the Progress Party. This is an important cultural policy issue that can be solved in many ways, the Council of State has said, not just by collecting public funds. Governments have also indicated that Public Private Cooperation, i.e. cooperation with universities, cooperation with banks, cooperation with the Saving Bank Foundation, the Free Word Foundation and the libraries, can be a good solution. All of this supports the Progress Party. My question is, what about realism, the possibilities? Are there any solutions? Can we achieve this public-private cooperation in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e651	So it's not up to me to evaluate. It is this foundation that is now taking responsibility for Great Norwegian encyclopaedia to assess. It is therefore difficult for me to have any opinion on this matter now. What I've said is that I'm positive that the National Library is contributing. But this foundation can't expect any public lexicon support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e656	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e662	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives of Svein Harberg and Elisabeth Aspaker respectively to the Minister of Knowledge are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed. Question 4, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is absent, as the questioner is not present. Question 10, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for Oil and Energy, was answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 11, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e699	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e705	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The military police in Østerdal garrison in Hedmark are gone and it is uncertain when it comes. Will the Council of State contribute to the rapid development of military police in a place that has so much military activity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e714	I was at Rena on Monday and had the pleasure of looking at our facilities and not least meeting people who were operating in the many activities that we have going on there. It was very pleasant. I also had questions related to the military police. My answer is as follows: The military police resources of the defence have as their primary task to contribute to the organisation of the operational activities of the Army, the Naval Defence, the Air Force and the Home Office. This includes, inter alia: support for the treatment of prisoners of war, the provision of order and investigation services and the carrying out of traffic controls. For day-to-day operations of order and investigation from eight military police forces. Four of these are connected to Army departments respectively in the Church, at Bardufoss, at Rena and in Oslo. Following an overall assessment, the Defence decided to reduce the number of MP soldiers to be trained in the second half of 2009. The strict prioritisation of available MP resources resulted in the Defense choosing to mannify the MP drive on the Rena with two MP commands and no MP soldiers in the first half of 2010. In Østerdal garrison on Rena, there is also an MP-trop associated with the Army's rapid reaction strength. It operates training and training for foreign operations and is not available for MP station operations. The reduced staffing of Rena is a temporary situation in the first half of the year. The MP soldiers currently in training will meet the needs of the MP soldiers of Rena. The defence informs us that these include, inter alia: will be allocated to the service of Rena from the quota change in June/July. From then on, there will again be room for routine patrols on both Rena and Elverum. The MP station at Rena has a regional responsibility towards the Defence Departments within its territory. Any needs of Østerdal garrison beyond the capabilities of the two abovementioned commands will be addressed, depending on the situation and the need. Military police have their authority in military matters and military activities. Military police support the police on request when this is compatible with the defence's tasks and the police's own personnel or material resources may not extend.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e736	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is nice that the Council of State was satisfied with the visit to Rena on Monday. It's a nice camp. There's a lot of production there. There are many soldiers there, both Norwegian and foreign. In this context, military police, both for traffic control, are needed to conduct traffic and to keep order. As far as I know, there has been good cooperation between the police, the gunman and the military police. But when the military police disappear, much of the work they've done isn't done. If I may, I will ask the Council of State once more if she will be a guarantor that the military police will return to Rena/Elverum from June/July 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e745	I have no information to suggest that this will not happen, and the resources will therefore be in place at the quota change that takes place in June/July. It is from then on again room, as I mentioned, routinely to implement e.g. patrols on Rena and in Elverum, if otherwise so, on the basis of the fact that, of course, the responsibilities of the police are local.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e750	Thanks for the answer. If the circumstances are otherwise present, I think the Council of State said. I understand the answer to the Council of State to the point that the Council of State will be a guarantor that the military police will be present at Rena/Elverum from the quota change of June/July, and that they will do the job that a military police will do to ensure that the traffic is going to go as it should, and that they will be present at exercises. If accidents occur, etc., military police must also be careful. There's a lot of transport on the roads in connection with exercises. There's a lot of guests, and there's a lot of soldiers trained there, so there's a lot of activity on Rena/Elverum. That's why I asked this question. Because it is important that the military police are present. It has a preventative effect in many areas. Military police are doing a very good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e757	I'm very happy to hear what Bredvold said about the quality of the service. We place a great deal of emphasis on the cooperation we have with local authorities and want the defence activities to be welcomed locally in the future, both in Rena and in Elverum, and where the defence has other activities in Norway. I have no reason to doubt – and I do not think the representative of Bredvold should – the information that has come from the Defense that this service will again be staffed at Rena from the quota change in June/July.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e772	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. We have a little bit of a challenge. The next question will be asked by Arve Kambe to the government council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. We have requested the state council, which is not present, simply because a few questions have been put to the test. Let's take a short break. I ask the representatives to remain in the Chamber. It is possible that the Council of State will be here soon. Now the Council of State is coming. Welcome, Councillor! We understand that when some questions are put at risk, there will be a challenge for the Council of State, but we ask that we be careful to be there when questions are to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e782	I record that it is not only the trains that are too late – also the Minister of Transport is doing it. I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The service station at Rennfast was considered to be protected by the Riksantikvaren but was not included at the time of adoption of the protection plan. In retrospect, the entire plant is empty and parts of it are used by the State Road Service for weighing and control measures. Rennesø Municipality has signaled that the municipality wants to demolish the toll station. Now it turns out that a tender for painting and upgrading an empty toll station has been sent out. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sensible use of money, and will the Council of State contribute to the tearing or removal of the bomb?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e793	Let me first say that I am sorry that I was late. It's not fun. I was unfortunately a little late, noticing that there were several questions that had gone out. But there's something we're going to follow closely. So to the answer. According to the Swedish Road Service, toll station measurements and upgrades have not been made available. There are no plans for any upgrade of this toll station. The size has decided that all state etatars should draw up national defence plans for their own cultural memory. The fixed circuit assembly is part of the State Road Authority’s protective plan. This plan was adopted by the State Road Administration in 2002. This protective plan contains 270 objects. The Sokn bombing station is one of several elements in the racing fixture and is the only toll station in the protective plan. It is not that all objects in the protective plan will be protected by cultural memories. The rest, as it's called, is taken care of in other ways. As the representative of Kambe points out, the toll station area is currently being used by the State Road Service as a control point. The establishment has the desire to further develop the site for this purpose. On the basis of the fact that the racing fixture is not satisfied by the Riksantikvaren, and on the basis of strong local desire to remove the toll station and the Vegvesenet’s need for a well-functioning checkpoint, I will now ask the State Road Service to reconsider the matter of the protection status of the toll station on Sokn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e810	I am pleased that the Swedish Road Administration does not intend to upgrade and maintain a closed toll station, as the Council of State says, and that they do not plan to do so in the future either. Then I think it's okay that the Council of State follows this up, because I think it might be a little slow. Rennesø Municipality has said several times that this is something you want to do with. So in the meantime, it's like driving by, and especially now, as the tourist season approaches, it creates some traffic-threatening situations, because many people actually think this is a real toll station. You slow down, you're about to swing off, until you get all the way to the toll station and see that there are no people in the bows. At least when drivers pay tolls, they finance the construction of the toll facility. It also finances the relocation, the downgrading, the demolition, of the plant afterwards. Is the money in the account, or is the money spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e817	First of all, let me say that I thought the representative here, Mr. Kambe, had some serious arguments, both with regard to the misunderstandings that arise when the toll station is as he does, and with regard to what he says that the clarification goes slowly. I found it thought-provoking that the processes are such that Rennesø Municipality gets a letter from the Riksantikvaren, rejoices over that letter – the station is out of the protective list. Then it turns out that the station is on another protective list. To the question of money: if this station is now being cleared up, there will be a matter for the State Road Administration. Now they go one round, according to the needs of both the municipality and themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e824	I think it is good that the Council of State is dissatisfied with parts of the state bureaucracy, and now the Council of State has an opportunity. In October 2006, the Council of State even told Rogaland's Avis, as a major representative, that the Minister of Transport, who was then party leader Navarsete, should do what she could to ensure that the Rennfast bomb was demolished and possibly moved. Mr. Meltveit Kleppa has now become Minister of Transport Meltveit Kleppa, and thus has the full opportunity to implement her own words from 2006, when she, together with the group leader of the Center Party in Rogaland County, Odd Arild Kvaøy, says that this needs to be done now. This means that the Council of State now wants, just to clarify it completely, to remove the Rinnfast boom as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e833	So first of all, what I can verify is that it's right. That's what I said in 2006. So I can also confirm, based on what I have already said, that I am now asking the State Road Service to reconsider the matter of protection status. The state road service has a good tradition of playing on teams with local government powers. I argued that one now uses the tradition that they have, and that they engage in dialogue with the municipality of Rennesø. As a government council, I want to stick to the processes and procedures that lie there between a state council and the state's road system. So that's why I'm doing it this way. I am confident that there will be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e844	‘The Minister of Transport has said that it is not possible to spend more money on the maintenance and renewal of the railway in order to resolve the train crisis in the East. The daily newspaper of 7 April states that the Railway Agency recommends that maintenance be stepped up and that there is capacity to do so. The Council of State, on its side, states that it may affect the investment framework. Can the Council of States confirm that more money can be spent on the maintenance and renewal of the rail network in the East?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e851	Based on an assessment of the renewal needs, the consequences of long closure periods, especially for freight traffic, and material ordering times, the Railway Agency has clarified that it is not possible to increase the activity of maintenance and renewal in the Oslo area. In 2010, it is budgeted with an ordinary maintenance of 1 897 million. kr, and it is budgeted for refurbishment in the Oslo area by 470 million. kr to the Oslo project. Compared to the 2009 budget balance, the commitment to the maintenance of the network in 2010 has increased by more than 40 pst, including the greening of the Oslo project. The Oslo project includes a renewed railway infrastructure in the Oslo area for a total of approximately DKK 2 billion in the period 2010–2013. This applies to the Lysaker-Asker sections, i.e. the Drammensbanen, Lysaker-Oslo-S-Etterstad, including the Oslo tunnel and Oslo S-Lillestrom, i.e. the Hauptbanen, and Oslo S-Ski. This work is particularly important in order to improve the operational stability of the Austland. There is also substantial investment in new railway infrastructure in the Oslo area, the work involving double-track Lysaker-Sandvika and actions to facilitate a new timetable, Route Plan 2012. In order to carry out the extensive innovations and investments faster, it is planned to close the railway from Oslo to Drammen for 30 days this summer. The time is 10 July–9. August. When it comes to maintaining and renewing the network elsewhere, the Railway Agency has said that it is possible to spend more money than was foreseen in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The railway works have recently informed that there is a need to allow for maintenance, even if this would lead to a reduction of the rights to investment. The Government will now carry out an assessment of a request from the Railway Agency to provide the planned renewal work underpinned by NTP 2010–2019, over eight years, instead of ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e864	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In 2006, a state report revealed that the maintenance demand was about NOK 14 billion. As I see it, this did not lead to new initiatives by increasing the maintenance rate. Now the Railway Agency itself says that the problems are even bigger than expected. If I interpreted the Council of State correctly – but I still ask: does the Council of State agree that it is necessary to increase the appropriations for railway maintenance in addition to the NTP? I felt she said that in her first answer, but I asked again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e871	Let me first say that it is enough demanding to be in the lead at the railway station, and it may also be necessary for both the staging and the government to stick to information that changes over time. However, the report submitted in 2006 by a German company provides the basis for both the following budgets and for the national transport plan 2010–2019. There, over ten years ago, the railway company received the funds requested for renewal, based on the reports they had so far. So it's now such that the maturities are moving faster. There is a need for a new assessment on the part of the Railway Agency. There is a need for maintenance, and my answer is yes, I see that a maintenance is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e878	I thank you for the positive answer. I perceive the Railway Agency as missing a marshalling earth and clear signals from the Council of State on how and where the efforts in maintenance and renewal should be prioritised in the future. Can the Council of State say something about what she thinks about this, and what measures are important to give priority in the short term to getting trains on the road? She has responded to it in her first answer, but I want to see more concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e887	Let me just follow up on my previous answer where I said that I see it necessary to continue. Here we now have a process. We have a good dialogue with the Railway Agency from the Department's side. If the outcome of the government negotiations is to be sustained, we have to file a case for Stortinget about it. It will be done during the spring, if necessary. But in the Oslo area there is now the maintenance that can be optimally carried out. So what we're talking about now is we're doing maintenance on other paths. There are some means for it this year, on Bergensbanen, on the Dovrebanen, on the Sørlandsbanen, but it is in the case of foraging on the web otherwise, beyond Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e897	‘The size has decided that there should be a differentiated maternity care. The birth of the Oslo University Hospital, which was opened by the former Brustad State Council, has found a form in which it is possible to provide a comprehensive offer for healthy pregnant women with expected normal birth. The users are very satisfied, and the outcome for mother, father and child is very good. One has been informed that Oslo University Hospital is now considering shutting down this food supply. Is it correct, and if so, what does the Council of State think of a closure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e904	In St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A joyful event, the Government stated that feeding rooms should receive women with expected normal birth. Mother-fed maternity wards can be set up outside hospitals or in hospitals without a maternity ward to provide a decentralised food supply. Infantry-destroyed maternity wards can also be established in hospitals in connection with major maternity wards. The birthplace of the Federal Republic of Germany at Oslo University Hospital is an example of the last. Regional health companies are now developing multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted plans for food supply in their region in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, in line with the leadership of the Stortinge. The size has been previously informed that any plans to change the structure of maternity care have to wait until such comprehensive plans have been drawn up. Health South-East RHF has announced in its Annual Communication 2009 that each hospital area is developing regional plans together with its municipalities and that these plans are being incorporated into the plan for the whole region. Users’ and employees’ organisations are involved in the planning process. Complete plan for the Oslo University Hospital Hospital Area shall be drawn up in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. At the Women's and Children's Clinic, Oslo University Hospital, the section consists of low births of two units, the Federal Republic of Germany with approx. 150 births in 2009 and the ABC clinic at Ullevål with approx. 600 births in 2009. The Federal Republic of Germany is a project that has been in existence for almost three years, while ABC has been in existence since 1997. In view of the aggregation of the maternity wards of Ullevål and the Rikshospital, the establishment shall be reviewed in order to ensure a comprehensive and differentiated offer to women during pregnancy, parturition and parturition. A working group of users’ and employees’ representatives has discussed the content and organisation of the low-risk food supply, including the possibility to co-locate the two units. The report of the Working Party is in favour of the provision represented by the Federal Republic of Germany. Health South-East RHF has informed me that Oslo University Hospital HF will consider the report in a wide-ranging consultation meeting before the management of the health company receives it for treatment. Health South-East RHF has clarified that no position has been taken or expressed in any proposal to wind up the Federal Republic of Germany. I assume that the report will be seen in the context of the overall regional plan. Forecasts show that there will be more births in Oslo and Akershus in the years to come. The organisation of low-risk services for women who wish to feed as naturally as possible without the use of technology and medicine is an important part of the food supply to ensure that the birthplace in Oslo is a decentralised, differentiated and predictable food supply in line with the government's objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e923	I thank you for your answer. It was so positive, in the sense that no decision has yet been taken to put it down. But there are strong forces in the environment here – I think most people are familiar with it – and it is said that there should be economic reasons. But then I would like to remind you that the Storting said in connection with the treatment of the birth message that no economically motivated changes would result in a poor birth offer. If the Federal Republic of Germany is merged with an ABC unit, first of all, it becomes a completely different offer, because the Federal Republic of Germany is outside the hospital, and second, it would be contrary to the Storting decision. The kingdom is a professional spearhead to facilitate normal birth without medical intervention. We believe it is very important and positive that we can have this option, not least to compare results. So I will be confirmed that the Council of State thinks this must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e932	I am concerned that different food options should be provided. Especially in Oslo, where there are so many births, it is clear that this is very valuable offer. In my answer I also said that there was no suggestion to wind up the kingdom. At the same time, as the representative, Mr. Sjöli, knows very well, there is now a work going on, as I also mentioned in my answer. You're working on the whole offer in the regions, and then we'll see what it's like when it comes. However, it is absolutely right that there should be no economically motivated changes in the birth offer until the whole plan comes, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e939	The kingdom is a five-year project. It's only been three years now, and it's too early to say anything about the final results. But so far an evaluation has been carried out, and it is very positive. When it's going to be a whole plan, and when you add up to a whole offer, the food kingdom is part of this. What I'm trying to get hold of is what the Council of State means, not what the hospital means, or what the regional health company thinks. Does the Council of State think that the food kingdom is so important to develop the offer of normal pregnancy and childbirth that one will keep it outside the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e946	I am concerned that there should be different types of offers, so that those who are going to be born have the opportunity to choose where they will be born. Some have to feed where the equipment is most advanced, and they have to do it. I am concerned that the different types of offers should be continued. As I say in my answer, no position has been taken or uttered any suggestion to liquidate the kingdom. I assume that this is the case. There's going to be hearings and stuff about the whole plan when it's presented, and then we get to take it from there. But there's no reason to worry at the moment – at least not after what I'm familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e956	That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e971	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e977	‘An investigation report published on 25 March shows that there has been a major and systematic breach of patient rights at the Hospital Asker and Bærum. Hospital staff have not had sufficient competence, and waiting lists have not been checked. The health inspection and the police are now conducting further investigations of the case. What measures will the Council of State take to prevent this from affecting other patients, and is she confident that the management of the healthcare company and the board of directors have taken responsibility for patient safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e984	I look very seriously at both the facts revealed in the report and the consequences this may have had for patients. Both the Health Authority and the police are still working on the matter, and it is therefore difficult to go into the details now. Several of the measures I have taken after the case at the Hospital Asker and Bærum became known are precisely measures to ensure that hospitals have a good internal control system, and that patients are informed about their rights. I refer in particular to the requirements for regional health companies to review procedures and systems in the relevant area where it was assumed that there was a failure of the Hospital Asker and Bærum. In order to better ensure that patients are informed about their rights, I have asked regional health companies to ensure that the Health Directorate's proposals for letter templates for convocation and information on patients' rights are used in all hospitals. I will continue to assess whether the measures taken are effective enough to ensure patients’ rights. I will consider further measures, if it turns out that these measures should not be good enough. Health South-East has assured me that measures have been taken both from Health South-East and West Viken to close the deviations at West Viken, and that equivalently they will not be taken in other hospitals in the region. In addition, of course, the hospital follows up the patients who should have been given priority. In order to ensure that patients are informed about their rights, healthcare companies in the region are required to use the correspondence forms I mentioned, as well as the information leaflets, and training of hospital staff has been completed. When the audit report was available, the correspondence was in use at the West Viken, the referral handling procedures were reviewed, and progress reporting on waiting lists is now done monthly to the head of department. Health South-East has asked Vestre Viken for a statement on how the internal audit report has been followed up. The group audit in Health South-East must ensure that the measures taken by the Vestre Viken are adequate. The group audit shall further confirm whether the entity has sound internal management and control of the patient processes. Based on the assurances and briefings I have received from Health South-East, I trust that both Health South-East and West Viken have taken the audit report seriously and have paid attention to ensuring that patients are guaranteed their rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1003	I believe that there is far too little attention in general in the boards of health companies related to quality, safety work in hospitals and quality indicators. To a large extent, hospitals are managed from the top, i.e. by the Minister of Health, and downwards on the basis of economic incentives and an overfocus on the economy at the expense of patient safety and patient rights. So I want the Minister of Health to assess whether the board of Health South-East in advance has had enough focus on these issues when we see that the report reveals a lack of overall systems, follow-up, control of waiting lists and deadlines, internal control – responsibilities and authority relationships in the admission office are not described – and not least lack of control that employees have sufficient competence and receive the necessary training. Has the board of Health South-East in advance of this done its job?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1010	It is quite clear that this has been a major failure in Western Viking health companies. I have now said that, and I have said that in the past. I'm going to reject the fact that you're solely governed by economics. It's always the patient's best that's in focus. When it comes to quality, it won't be possible to work with quality without the economy at the bottom and without the economy being controlled. The report has revealed serious aspects, which are due to a lack of training and a lack of systems. I've taken care of this, and we're working all the time to fix this. This case is with the Health Authority and the police, and it has not yet been fully investigated. We'll be waiting for the final verdict.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1019	Health surveillance and the police consider things other than what the Minister of Health has to assess. The police will, for example, assess the criminal aspects that go beyond what is at issue in this case. My question to the Minister of Health is again: What assessments has the Minister of Health made regarding the responsibilities of the Board of Health South-East in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1026	I believe that the board of Health South-East has addressed the matter. Then you can ask, Was it enough time, or have you followed up well enough? There is something you have to look at afterwards when all the assessments have been made and everything has been revealed in the case. It is not at all that the assessments of the Health Authority are uninteresting to the Minister of Health. On the contrary, they are very interesting, because what you have to rely on is that this should not happen again – that it should not happen elsewhere. I have taken care of the matter in particular. I have been concerned that patients should first of all receive the treatment they should have, that internal control there and elsewhere should be carried out in a reassuring way, that this is not something that has happened to other companies, and that training is now taking place at a completely different level from that revealed by the internal audit report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1036	This question, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1039	‘The new 420 kV powerline between Sima and Samnanger meets strong resistance both in the local environment and in political bodies in Hordaland. It has been 11⁄2 years since the complaint handling started. If the appeal procedure is to be independent and has confidence in all the parties, the appeal body shall have the utmost responsibility. Have the 50 complaints received been evaluated by the independent trade union community, and what concrete action has the Ministry taken to assess the errors and omissions that the complainants believe are on the basis of the concession request?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1046	Within our management system, there is hardly any other area that is subject to as extensive regulation as the power sector. Applications for the construction and operation of electrical installations such as the new 420 kV power line from Sima to Samnanger must comply with the provisions of the Energy Act in addition to the normal handling of the matter under the administrative law governing complaints. The decision of the NVE on the construction and operation of this power line was based on such thorough concession treatment under the Energy Act. The measure has been consistent with the requirements of the Law on Planning and Building. The request from Statnett with all the necessary investigations was submitted to the NVE as the concession authority. The NVE assessed whether the measure was sufficiently well established for decisions to be taken. Therefore, a decision under the Energy Act authorising the construction and operation of a power transmission plant is based on a comprehensive and consistent balancing of all cross-cutting considerations. Among other things, there will be: attention had to be paid to the security of power supply and to the nature and the environment. Our energy management is structured in such a way that the responsibility for the construction and operation of the nationwide transmission network is added to Statnet through concessions and regulations under the Energy Act. The NVE is the supervisory and control authority for the tasks performed by Statnet as system administrator for the power supply. The Ministry of Oil and Energy, as the Board of Appeal, is responsible for ensuring that the peer reviews on which Statnet has based its application, on which the NVE has used the concession treatment, are updated as necessary by Statnett and reviewed by the NVE before a decision is taken. In this appeal case, the Ministry has obtained further investigations and assessments from Statnett and NVE based on the responsibilities and competences of these bodies in the field of energy management. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has found this necessary in order to assess the claims made in the complaints. To the extent necessary, the Ministry shall obtain professional assessments from other administrative bodies responsible for the subject areas affected by the complaints.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1057	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad that the Council of State is taking sufficient time to get a good decision in Hardanger. I also have to say that I am cheering for Hardanger in this matter. Now, since the response to complaints to the concession application was announced, there are several questions about whether new additional information is being made. It has, among other things, require an assessment of the voltage gain of the line network and the construction of compensation systems as an alternative to the air voltage between Sima and Samnanger. My question is then: Is there any new additional arrangements being made – and who might be responsible for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1066	As I refer to in my answer, the NVE’s decision on the construction and operation of this power line is based on a thorough treatment under the Energy Act, and the measure is consistent with the Planning and Building Act. In this concession system, investigations and assessments are at the expense of the action holder, which in this case is the system operator. The NVE, as the concession authority, assessed how the measure was sufficiently well established for decisions to be taken. As mentioned above, the Ministry of Energy Management has obtained further investigations and assessments from Statnett and NVE in the light of the responsibilities and competences of these bodies in the field of energy management, including in the areas referred to by the questioner. The Ministry has also obtained information from BKK about the facilities they own. The representative Lødemel's question about the assessment of independent professional environments then has no place in our concession system or in the administrative law on complaint handling. Nor can I see that such an assessment will lead to further information in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1073	I thank you for your answer. I record that no independent distribution has been made, and that it is Statnett and NVE that respond when it comes to the complaint handling in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. People in Hardanger experience Statnet as arrogant, and that they have little real will to assess other solutions. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 January, Statnett requested an answer to the complaint before Easter in order to start construction, and they sent the construction work on offer before they received a concession on the construction of the line. It's easy to understand that people react to this. We can't have a state company that in that way provokes people's confidence in the public. What would the State Council do to fix this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1082	As I stressed in my two previous answers, the department and the bodies that are assessing this matter follow the ordinary law for dealing with matters. Of course, it is also the case that all matters should be dealt with according to good administrative practice – in the case of Statnet, and in the case of NVE. I just assume that it will be done in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1097	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1103	‘The Ministry of Culture has sent out proposals for regulations to be consulted on VAT compensation for the voluntary sector. The proposal has such a high threshold for VAT compensation that a majority of organisations in Norway are excluded. The fact that small stand-alone associations and teams don't enjoy the scheme, rhymes badly with election vows from the government. Also organisations that have been compensated for VAT on services so far will now lose it. Will the Council consider amending the rules in relation to the draft consultation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1110	The Ministry has had a continuous dialogue with the voluntary sector on VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations. In June 2009, a sample with participation from Freewill Norway and the Norwegian Sports Association was established. This sample has worked on the details of the new scheme. It is assumed that the scheme is administratively manageable for the voluntary sector and for the country. A simplified system has therefore been developed in which central-level localisations report only one figure — the total operating costs. This figure is taken from the accounts. There is no minimum limit for a local layer connected to a central link. A minimum limit of NOK 300000 has been set in total operating costs, but it is total for central and all local levels. At the request of parts of the voluntary sector, compensation may also be applied for based on documented VAT costs. Here a minimum limit of NOK 25 000 is set in documented VAT costs for the organisation in total. It is necessary to set a minimum limit to limit the use of resources for volunteering in relation to the level of compensation. Many small amounts of applications would result in the costs associated with the administrative and audit work of the organisations being an excessive proportion of the amount of the grant. The new scheme will enable far more organisations to apply for compensation than under the old scheme. In the past, compensation could be sought only for the additional costs incurred by the introduction of VAT on 1 July 2001. For most organisations, this was only a small part of the total VAT they paid. When compensation can now be applied for both for goods and services, the compensation basis will be substantially extended. Many organisations that fell below the minimum level of the previous scheme will have more than NOK 25 000 in total goods and services VAT, thus exceeding the minimum level of the new scheme. Individual organisations were not able to apply for a template scheme in the past. In a new scheme, individual applicants may also use the simplified model. This option increases the chances of individual applicants exceeding one of the minimum limits. The simplified model is designed to allow more funds to be made available to local units than under previous schemes. Clear demands will be made on the central stages for the effective return of compensation to local joints. This means that several local units will benefit from a new VAT compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1133	I thank you for the answer, but I guess I have the impression that the Council of State and I have a slightly different view of ‘goodness’ in the rules that are likely to be implemented, if I interpret the Council’s answers correctly. My concern is not about the large, national organisations and their locality. They're taken care of. My concern concerns smaller independent organisations that are not part of large national associations. They actually exist, and, as I believe the Council of State is aware, they exist in quite a large number. Freedom Norway operates that 60 pst. by the registered organisations in Norway — associations and organisations — have less than DKK 50000 in the annual budget. 60 pst. by the organisations! Of course, it doesn't say anything about how many members these organizations have, but at least it says something about a great variety of organisations out there. These are not taken into account in the new proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1140	I think the representative may have misunderstood parts of the scheme as presented in a draft consultation. What I stress is that the minimum limit is set for total operating costs – that is, combined for the central level and all local levels. So there's no limit on the individual layer. However, we are not completely done dealing with these regulations. Not all organisations in Norway are associated with Freewill Norway and the Norwegian Sports Association, who helped to make this proposal together with us. That's why we've had this on a consultation round, also to receive other recordings. We now deal with these hearing opinions and aim to send out the new regulations during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1145	I would like to repeat my main point, namely that in my question there is no concern about the local level, local departments in large national organisations, but for the smaller ones – the many thousands of independent, smaller organisations that individually do not have the opportunity to have an economy beyond the boundaries of the Ministry, i.e. either at least NOK 300000 in total annual operating costs or a documented purchase of VAT of NOK 25 000, which means that you have to buy goods and services for at least NOK 100000. So the majority of organisations registered in Norway do not have enough money per year. years to travel with to be able to get up to these amounts. These stand-alone, numerous local, independent organisations and independent organisations will fall outside this scheme, representing 60 pst. of the total number of organisations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1150	Now we have not finally concluded on this matter. We have sent out a proposal for a hearing that we have made together with the Freewill Norway and the Norwegian Sports Association. Then we will consider the consultation proposals that have come from several of the organisations. However, overall this represents large transfers to volunteering in Norway. It is a very unbureaucratic system that will make large transfers to the large voluntary work that is taking place in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1158	‘Soria Moria II states: ‘The government will further develop agricultural incomes and welfare policies from the previous period.’ This must mean that farmers will have a stronger income growth than in the previous ageing period and that the income gap between agriculture and other groups will decrease. Can the Council of States confirm that the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration mean that farmers can expect a stronger income increase in the agricultural settlement of the year than before?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1165	The government will further develop the income and welfare policy of the previous period. The previous period provided for an income promise for the farmers that are significantly larger than the Bondevik II government gave, of which the representative Andersen Eide's party was part. If the forecasts are switched on, the income possibilities are per. annual work increased by more than 70 000 kroner on average over the period 2006–2010. While the Bondevik II government reduced the appropriations for the implementation of the agricultural agreement, the appropriations under this government have increased by nearly NOK 2 billion. In the distribution, we have strongly prioritised grass-based livestock farming as a contribution to achieving the objectives of agricultural policy. We have increased grazing grants because it is important to prevent regrowing and to exploit grazing resources. We have strengthened the structural profile and the regional subsidies, and we have strengthened the welfare systems and improved access to agricultural vicars. When I focus on this, it is because further development of income and welfare policy is also about the distribution and prioritisation of the framework of the agricultural agreement, including: with a view to facilitating continued active agriculture throughout the country. We are now in front of a new agricultural settlement, and of course I cannot pre-prosecut or go into the details of it. The basic technical material is also not available until a few days. But we receive many impressions about a difficult income situation in agriculture that the Government takes very seriously. Strict demands on the budget make this year's agricultural settlement demanding, but of course we will pursue our objectives of Soria Moria II to further develop income and welfare policy from the previous period. This will be done on the basis of an up-to-date assessment of the agricultural situation and other conditions, such as the market and budgetary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1174	I thank you for the answer, but I will ask you again. It's okay to point out what you've done, but I ask myself if the Council's answer gives you hope for further development in the future, even though I understand that the Council of State can't pre-shoot what's in the agricultural business. I thought Soria Moria was obliged, and then there are expectations that farmers will get real income opportunities and social conditions in line with other groups in society. Otherwise, as they say now, farmers give up, and more use is being put down. The peasants all over the country are now standing up in protest, and I can see that protest. This is about many things, including: significant increase in budgetary resources. It is about improving the investment and welfare system. The peasants believed in the promise in Soria Moria. What is the Council of State's interpretation of the obligation that lies exactly in Soria Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1181	The representative of Andersen Eide is now trying to get me to do a preliminary processing of the agricultural agreement, and I am not going to go into that. As for the question of whether Soria commits Moria, of course Soria Moria does. I underlined in my first post that we should further develop the income and welfare policy of the previous period. It is laid down in the declaration, and it is clear. What is important to take into account is that there has been a significant positive development in the industry in recent years. I referred to some numbers on it in my first post, an increase of about 70,000 kroner, which is almost a chronic development with other groups. It's historically positive. My ambition is of course to continue working, so that we can also reach an agreement with the agricultural organisations after 17 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1190	The Council of State made a number in its first post of Bondevik II and our investment in agriculture. I would remind the Council of State that this government has had far more money to distribute. Does the Council of State think that the increase to which he refers and the investment that has been made in agriculture, which we would like to support in the Christian People's Party – we quite agree on many things in agricultural policy – are consistent with the increase in income that the State has received during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1195	I referred a little bit to the situation in the last few years compared to the previous period, that's right. There's been a positive development, an improvement, compared to the past. It is also true that this is happening in a situation where there has been a better economic environment. There I support the comment of the representative. What is important, however, is that we have had negotiations every year. Agreements have been concluded each year, and these are the agreements which, of course, lay the basis for the development of income. The outcome of those negotiations has been positive. The result is a positive development of income, a development of revenue at the crown level approximately at the same level as other groups. It's historic, and it's good. In the future, we will obtain information on the situation from different teams. We await the requirements of the organisations, and then we will enter into ordinary negotiations with one goal: a new agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1207	‘The Council of State has changed the turnover tax rate for eggs from 1 April in view of the situation on the market. It has been forecast with a surplus of eggs of 2100 tonnes in 2010, at the same time 700 tonnes in stock at the beginning of 2010. Can the Council of State guarantee that the warehouse will be emptied without destroying eggs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1214	We usually have two sales stops for eggs every year. It's about Easter, and it's about the situation before Christmas. It is probably difficult for the market regulator to ensure that we have enough eggs during these periods while avoiding surpluses in periods of lower demand. The background to the particular surplus problems we have now had in the egg market is due to the fact that, for animal welfare reasons, from 2012, egg producers are no longer required to use traditional cages in the henhouses, but leave the animals free-going or allowed to stay in larger environmental cages. Producers planning to be involved after the transition from the regulatory framework are reconstructed to a larger scope of operations in order to increase the income base. The others produce in traditional cages as long as it's legal. We have known for a long time that this could be a challenge to the market balance before and after the transition. In order to avoid excessive egg surpluses, the Board of Commerce has put in place several measures to improve the market balance. The main measure is to contribute to the reduction of the number of hens achieved by paying producers to limit their animal numbers. However, it turned out that this payment was too low, so that not enough producers reduced their scope of operation. Therefore, there was an increase in the amount of eggs in stock, as the representative also stresses in his question. The Board of Commerce has now set up the payment, and the participation of producers in these measures has increased, thus providing a better market balance. The costs of this measure increased the turnover tax on eggs. I would like to point out that under the Sales Act, the main task of the Sales Council is to achieve effective regulation of the market for different agricultural products, and then at the lowest possible cost. The regulation shall benefit the entire industry, both for suppliers of the agricultural cooperative and for suppliers of its products to other market operators. The costs of the measures approved by the Council are covered by the turnover tax charged by the producers. The Turnover Council is responsible for proposing tax rates, but the rates must finally be set by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I would like to point out that the representative, in oral question time on 24 March, said the following: ‘When we go into the Ministry of Agriculture and Food’s own websites, we record that from 1 April they want to set up the sales tax on eggs. So you want to raise the egg price by 40 cents, and you want to do that because you have 2 100 tons in stock, so you have to set the price." This shows that Tåldal is not aware of the content of market regulation in Norwegian agriculture and what sales fees are. It is therefore the producers who pay the turnover tax through deductions in their billing price. Therefore, the egg price was not increased by 40 cents per cent. kg because of the measures I have mentioned, but farmers are paid less. I would like to stress that I also find it surprising that the representative Treldal does not go further into what the turnover tax is, and who is charged to it. I would like to stress that it is important that the industry, and especially Nortura as a market regulator, take the necessary responsibility for adapting egg production to consumption, and that both before and after the conversion in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1234	I listen to what the council says, and I record that once again I do not get an answer to the question I am asking. I ask if the Council of State can guarantee that you can clear the warehouse without destroying eggs. What the Council of State is now doing is he's quoting from a press release from his own department, which I read fourteen days ago. I ask the council once again, and I hope, with all due respect, that the council can give me an answer: can you bring down the warehouse without making the egg dose of several thousand tons of eggs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1241	What was the intention of my first answer was to inform the Storting that we have a well-functioning system for regulating this market as of other agricultural markets. It's the Board of Commerce that, together with the market regulator, has the function of ensuring that we get balance. So when it's overproduction, it's the farmers who have to pay for it. This is why, of course, agriculture itself and farmers have an interest in avoiding an overproduction situation. So once we have come into such a situation, Nortura and the Turnover Council have taken action. Those measures work. My ambition is, of course, to avoid destroying eggs. Nortura has said that you want to increase demand, and that you want to avoid destruction by, for example, the use of eggs for animal feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1246	I record that I have still not received an answer to the question. In the first answer to the Council of State he suggested that I have not understood how the sales tax works, so, with all due respect, who is right or wrong here, I will not go into it here and now. But if you ask the industry yourself, you say that if you set the turnover tax up to 40 cents, the farmers get 40 cents less for the eggs per. kg, the consumer must pay at the other end. If you want to get rid of alcohol and tobacco in the system in the red-green world, what do you do? Then you set up the prices, so that they don't buy that much. Here you do the exact same thing. You set the price for more sales – then you understand who will understand!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1253	Once again, I just have to repeat that we have a well-functioning system for regulating this market in agriculture, as elsewhere in agriculture. It's interesting to note how the Progress Party becomes very concerned about the supply situation for eggs around Easter. It happens year after year. The concern begins with the fact that Norwegian hens do not at all lay down the number of eggs that consumers eat or store from Easter. We would like to have more market-oriented hens that adapted laying to these holidays, but there is no such thing. That is why we have systems that ensure market regulation. My ambition is to avoid the destruction of eggs. My ambition is to make the market slow down. The basic point of market regulation is that industry itself should take responsibility for adapting production to demand — and this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1263	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour: «In the Official Journal of Bergen on 23 March this year, it is possible to read about staff and residents in housing for mentally retarded persons who have a positive view of the so-called 'oil revolution', because they are less qualified and qualified employees. The inhabitants get a more stable rhythm, more sleep, less exhaustion, lower drug use – simply a better daily life. At the same time, employees receive longer periods of free time for better planning. But the trade union is negative. What does the Council of State mean?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1272	I am going to answer two questions today that deal with the same issue, about working time. Our working time rules help us to have a society with a high level of professional participation and where people with different care tasks and needs can participate. At the same time, the Government is committed to facilitating the functioning of care institutions and, in particular, of all other establishments, in order to enable them to operate in a good manner. The issues of working time and the need for alternative working time arrangements are complex and affect important interests both for patients/users and workers. I will therefore follow developments in this area closely. Of course, the needs of users must be central to the organisation of public services and touring. However, working time arrangements with particularly long shifts, and in particular where they are successive, may have adverse health effects and the likelihood of errors and accidents increases. At the same time, it may be difficult to combine with family life. As a result of the implementation of the Working Time Directive in the Working Environment Act, in 2006 the general exemption of the Labour Inspectorate was limited in relation to the 1977 Act. The restriction no longer conferred on the supervisory authority general powers to dispense in addition to the daily and weekly leave requirements of the Directive. Therefore, it was suggested that different working time arrangements would be agreed between the parties to a greater extent than in the past. When concluding agreements on different working time arrangements, different interests and needs will inevitably have to be balanced against each other. An example of where this balance has to be made is in the current Bergen Tournament case. In order to take account of the different considerations, for the type of cases in which the deviations are very extensive in relation to the work environment law, a system of trade unions of a certain size has been chosen to agree on such schemes. I assume that this competence is properly practised and that there are serious reasons why there is no local agreement on a working time arrangement between the parties. In this respect, I will follow closely the practice of the parties in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1287	I thank you for your answer. It also turns out in this case that the trade union movement in Oslo is going to decide what is best for employees and builders and employers in the municipality of Bergen. Does the Council of State really think that this is the right way to go for all the parties involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1294	As I said, this is a matter where you have very heavy interests up against each other. It has users' interests, but then it is a very large deviation from the general tour systems, a deviation that is so large that under EU law we cannot have a general exemption for the Labour Inspectorate to do so. What has been done then is a system in which the parties are required to agree, and where that consensus is central to the larger organizations. I think it underlines the importance of seeing the whole of this, and you have to look at the impact it has on working life in general. That's why you don't just leave this at a local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1299	I thank you again for your answer. In 2008, a 6,000 out of health care, but 6,700 out of it. In today’s pre-health societies, there are many challenges to continuing to be employed and recruiting for the future, and there should be different flexible working time arrangements, wages and other incentives to do so. What has the Council of State intended to do with this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1308	I just want to stress that, as I have been informed by the parties, there are no issues yet, nor in matters relating to Bergen, where it has been said no in any way to those tour arrangements. Derogations have been granted in all the cases that have been raised. So now, after I've been informed, there are two things that are not formally applied for exemption, but where you discuss how the scheme can be organised. I stress that we know that continuous tour leads to major health problems. We know that e.g. The breast cancer rate among women is higher among women who work night shifts and turns. That is why it is also my job as Minister of Labour to ensure that we have good shift and rotation arrangements that also safeguard the interests of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1316	‘More municipalities have or consider alternative tour arrangements. Unfortunately, this is difficult, among other things. because, centrally, the trade unions have «vessel rights» and because approvals are granted for short periods of time, which creates considerable uncertainty. An alternative may be that any change in working time beyond 10 hours shall be approved by the Labour Inspectorate after formal discussions between the employer and the trade unions locally. Will the Council of State support such a proposal if it provides better conditions for employees and better services for users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1323	The representative of Røe Isaksen probably shares my recognition that setting working time is a difficult topic. I can also conclude from this issue that working time is important for society and business and important for individuals, both as individuals, patients/users and as employees. With regard to the representative’s specific proposal, I assume that when the representative, Røe Isaken, refers to working time of ‘more than 10 hours’, he aims to extend the normal working time. The law already opens today so that trade unions with the right of cancellation can agree to this. If there is a need for very different arrangements, as I mentioned in my previous reply, there is a tradition that, after careful weighing, the parties will come together to find solutions that are good for all concerned. It is also natural that, if very different schemes are developed, they should be made time-limited so that they can be evaluated both in relation to patients/users and workers. Working hours and, in particular, working very uncomfortable hours are also strongly linked to pay, in other words, to key elements in the relationship between the parties. It is therefore not natural for the Labour Inspectorate to enter into and settle such ‘interest conflicts’. It will, in my view, put supervision in a difficult role. However, today's system demands that the parties are conscious of their responsibilities, which I assume will be in the future as well. As I said in my previous answer, I should follow this situation closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1334	I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up on the matter, because we know that we have huge challenges in the care sector, and there is one thing that is widely agreed in the political environment in Norway, is that we are going to need more resources and more staff in the care sector in the years to come. I would like to stress that decent conditions are required in the workplace in Norway. I would also like to stress that I am very positive that the municipalities engage the trust-chosen and have an active and lively dialogue with the trust-chosen. Using the example from Bergen as the starting point, as the previous question asked, it turns out that users are satisfied, the employees are satisfied, this is rooted in local trust elected, but there is a frustration that the projects are only approved for one year at a time, and that it requires approval centrally – not locally. Will the Council of State do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1341	As the representative himself stresses, there is a need for a balance to be struck against the need for a good working environment. As I have underlined in my previous answer, we do not know that this type of tour schedule and shift arrangements are very demanding for those who work. But we have them, and we have created good systems – even if, as I understand, you can disagree if they are good – for how to safeguard that balance of interests. So the dispensation of the central trade union lies. And the background for that, we can reflect on it together. It is not always stated that the local levels are the best to see the long-term consequences. Local levels can sometimes feel pressure in relation to solutions, etc. That is why, in many ways, we have left the central level to make the final decision. But I stress two things: we have not, after what I have been informed, got someone no centrally. That's the one. I also stress that I assume that when the parties agree locally, there should be serious reasons for a central disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1348	It is in itself true that no one has been given a no as such, but one of the challenges here is that the central government approval is granted for shorter periods of time. As of today's date, then, it's like the municipality of Bergen, the local trustees and the users are not sure if they'll once again get what they want. today is the pilot project. I also want to refer to a project in the municipality of Skien, a municipality that was, and is, run by the Workers' Party, where there were just objections from the trade union central that made the project, which had a slightly different device than that in Bergen, have to end. There were very many local trust elected, local members of the Trade Union, dissatisfied with it. I want to give the Council of State a concrete challenge: Some of the things you can do with these projects are several full-time positions. More can go from unwanted part-time to full-time jobs. Will the State Council consider whether this can be used more actively in several places to offer more full-time jobs, not unwanted part-time, as today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1357	I just want to underline again what I have said. I hear that the representative is more focused on one year versus laying down the decision-making authority. It's a pilot project, and it's to get an opportunity to evaluate it. With regard to whether you get it or not, there are no applications now either; you are in a dialogue. I think if you put the rhetoric a little bit aside here, you have to be able to get an agreement on where to take care of all the important points. With regard to this, full-time and part-time, it's a bigger question that I'm not going to go into concretely here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1364	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-14.ana.ud2206e1600	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
