ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e55	The representative Karin S. Woldseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e63	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of a gift-enhancing scheme for Norwegian museums.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e68	The representative Ivar Kristiansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e71	On behalf of the representatives of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Lars Myraune, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I would like to propose a new comprehensive order of command for the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e76	The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e79	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I will be allowed to promote a most necessary proposal to put in place a system of psychiatric ambulances in all the counties of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e84	The representative of Svein Harberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e87	Then I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives Bente Thorsen, Dagrun Eriksen, Trine Skei Grande, and signed on the consequences of the Supreme Court ruling in favour of the Church employers' and stakeholders' organisations in the information society fund case. We request that the matter be dealt with under Section 28(c) of the Storting Rules of Procedure, so that the Storting takes a decision on the matter before we take a summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e95	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Of course, the request regarding Section 28(c) will also be settled. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. No objection has been raised and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e113	I should just like to say something very briefly about the position on this matter, and I would like to point out that there is agreement in the presidency on the two amendments to the Rules of Procedure that are included in the vote. According to Section 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the Municipal and Administrative Committee deals with «State personnel policy — including pay and pension conditions», while the Labour and Social Committee deals with «pensions». At the ministerial level, there were cases of public service pensions, including the State Pension Fund, formerly under the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, but from the end of the year the matter was transferred to the Ministry of Labour. The two committees concerned have agreed that matters relating to public occupational retirement provision, including the State Pension Fund, should be dealt with by the Labour and Social Committee, which deals with other matters relating to pensions, inter alia. from the Security of the People. The Presidency agrees and proposes an amendment to Section 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which requires the transfer of public occupational pensions to the Labour and Social Committee. The Municipal and Administrative Committee shall continue to deal with the matter of State personnel policy, including remuneration. According to Section 15 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, the Presidency can redeploy a matter that Stortinget has sent to a committee. After the matter has been referred to a committee, the Presidency may decide that the draft nomination of the committee shall be submitted to another committee for an opinion before its appointment. It may also decide that a case shall first be examined by one committee and that the draft nomination of that committee shall be forwarded to another committee, which shall then give its opinion. The Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy have no explicit rule that the Presidency may take a decision on the latter after a case has been sent to one committee, but the Presidency has taken the view that it has such a power as a result of the competence it otherwise has under § 15. The Presidency proposes that the wording of the third paragraph of Section 15 be clarified on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e128	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 4270]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e144	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 125 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines in response to contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines in response to contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e155	Today, we are discussing an important document for everyone in Norway – the municipal proposal. All residents are affected by our decisions, all live in a municipality, and most receive some form of municipal service. We have kindergarten or kids in school, our garbage is emptied once a week, there's water in the bar, the health centre is vaccinating, and home services are helping people who can still live at home. These are just a few examples of the diverse municipal sector we have in Norway. It is the same municipal sector that implements the adopted policies of the Storting and the government. I believe it is important for the national Parliament to know that active interaction with the municipalities is necessary to translate decisions into actions against individuals. The red-green government has greatly increased the level of activity over the past five years. There has been a large increase in the creation of new places of care, historical investment in new kindergartens and many new year-olds in the municipal sector. For the last four years, a total of 47,000 children have been placed in kindergarten. That means that a lot of parents have got a simpler and more predictable reality. Only in 2009 8300 more children were given kindergartens. During the period, 32 new children have been given kindergartens every day. This is an incredible boost for families with children and a real effort both from the municipalities and the state as advocating authority. Norwegian women have very high participation rates compared to women in many other countries. Norwegian women are more equal and have a genuine freedom of choice related to professional participation. We can rightly be proud of this! And babysitting is important in that context. Furthermore, a real growth of 41 billion has been added. kr to the local government sector from 2005 to 2009. It's such a big sum that it's almost hard to grasp. Nevertheless, the opposition asks about where the money has gone. Money is used for services in municipalities. From 2005 to 2009, between 35,000 and 40,000 new annual works were created in the municipal sector. The money has gone to what they will go to: new kindergartens and more employees in kindergartens, new places in the care sector and employees to serve these users. There are still major and unresolved needs in the sector, and I would like to mention here the continued expansion of the areas of good luck. We do not have an old-age care that shines, but we will do as Jens Stoltenberg said during the election campaign in 2005: we will not give a crown in tax booklets until it shines with the care of the elderly! It will be the government's priority in the future, and so will the Labour Party in the Municipal and Administrative Committee throughout the period. Despite the fact that restrictions have been reported in the Norwegian economy, the government is strengthening the total income of the local government sector with a real growth of between 4 and 5 billion. kr. Of the total revenue growth, between 2.5 and 3 billion. (c) come as free income. No municipalities believe that they are getting sufficient funds. That's the way it is, and that's how it's going to be. The reason for this is that all local politicians have an intrinsic force in themselves to want to improve their services to their own citizens. We need to drive quality development, we need to improve and renew services, and we need to apply new solutions that meet the needs of our citizens. In this area, it also means that all municipalities must have a continuous review of the use of their own resources. If they are used correctly, do you get the most back for the money? Or can the services be organised more efficiently to make better use of them? Community policy is to give priority to what is a little less important. This communicative proposition contains some important changes. The cost keys have been revised after 15 years. This means significant redistribution, because the use of municipal funds has changed in 15 years. Most people know that if we think back to 1995, a lot is changed internally in our own municipality. The service offer has changed and the cost distribution has turned in a different direction. Adjusting the cost keys after so many years means redistribution, but not doing this was not the case. On the other hand, a deferral would be a continuation and reinforcement of differences in allocation between municipalities. The Government has notified that the cost keys shall be adjusted approximately every four years. That is right, and it helps to capture objective changes quickly and efficiently. In next year's budget, the designation will be historically low. Childcare funding is included. That means an incredible 26.3 billion. kr is incorporated and transferred to the municipalities, without earmarking. The reason is that these are ordinary tasks for municipalities, which naturally belong to the rest of the framework funding of municipal services. This inclusion has resulted in only 4 pst. of the frames are now ear-marked. This means that municipal self-government is strengthened, that local democracy even more so than before freely disposes of its income within the framework of which the municipalities themselves believe that the greatest needs are. In the municipal bill, the government proposes that the tax share of municipal income should be changed from 45 p.m. to 40 pst. This means that differences between taxable and tax-impaired municipalities are balanced. There is solidarity and a suitable means of allocating inequalities in income. Another part of the cohesion is the metropolitan grant allocated to the cities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. Our biggest cities have challenges related to urbanity, to growth, to counteract major social differences and to boost drug supply, to mention something. The municipal sector has a challenge related to sick leave. Absence is higher than in the private sector and is unevenly distributed within the municipal sector. Absence also has many different reasons. Through good and systematic work on the part of employers, in cooperation with employees, it is possible to reduce sick leave. If the local government sector manages to reduce the absence by 1 pst, which may be possible, it will amount to 1.25 billion. kr, according to KS calculations. There can be a lot of good municipal well-being for 1.25 billion. kr. Despite all the wealth in this country, we have problems that make crisis centres have enough to do. They are now integrated into the framework transfers. There have been a number of concerns related to it. We'll listen and follow the situation carefully. We should follow developments in child protection as closely as possible. It is a field that it is important to ensure quality and to strengthen. That is the cross-political agreement on which it can be ascertained by reading the notes. Finally, I have to remember that there is hardly any country in the world that spends as much money per capita on public services as Norway. We are a privileged people, our municipalities are privileged, and we have good services. That doesn't mean everything's perfect. It'll hardly ever be. We will strengthen, improve and renew, while taking care of the good traditions of the community sector. The municipal bill is domestic policy, but Norwegian politicians should also take over the international financial situation. Many countries envy our economic situation. We should never put it overboard! It will hit more than just the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e192	The representative of Ingalill Olsen produces the municipal bill for 2011 as a «lift» for the municipalities. It's also shown that one gets extra free money of 2.5 to 3 billion. kr. But now demographic developments show that we're getting more older, and that it's going to impose extra costs on the municipalities of 2.4 billion. kr next year. Due to increased pension costs, municipalities will be charged 0.5 billion. kr extra next year, and due to a stipulated increase in interest rates, municipalities will have an increase of interest costs of 0.5 billion. kr. In addition, the costs of the Interaction Reform come. Then my question is, how does this relate? I can't see there's any "lift" here at all. In what way does the representative Olsen think that this is a 'lift' when we consider these costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e199	The municipal sector has a wide range of tasks to work with – there is no doubt about it. They have a lot of demands, they have a lot of legal issues, and funds are put at their disposal. That doesn't mean it's easy. But once we've reported that the costs of this government are going down, and at the same time we're strengthening the municipal sector, I think it's a starting point with which it's completely possible to live. This does not mean that the municipal sector should not make priorities. They have to do that. But there are funds, there are free revenues, and it is fully possible for the sector to get out strengthened and do its commitments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e206	There is rarely a record from the Workers' Party's group meetings in the newspapers, but the Nett newspaper, Nordlys and others could report that there was a complete outrage at the Workers' Party's group meeting when the municipal proposition was dealt with. Ten group members voted against, 26 supported at the end of the government’s arrangement — it was obviously a little bad on that day. But it shows that there is quite a struggle about this arrangement. When the calculations show that the municipalities with the highest incomes, e.g.: power municipalities such as Bykle, Sirdal, Modalen, etc., become winners in the new system, and Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim become losers in the new system, then Ingalill Olsen and the Workers' Party are satisfied with that profile and the device this arrangement has received? Or is it possible that there might be adjustments gradually when one sees that the rash gets stuck in the opposite direction of what was meant, namely, to give the big cities an extra grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e213	If you start from the funds allocated to the power stations and distribute them to all municipalities, it will not amount to very many kroner per capita. It's an important thing to discuss, but it won't make up the big differences. When it comes to having reviewed the cost keys, I think all the parties have to take on board that if you don't adjust the objective criteria of 15 years with the change that is, it has to be redistributed. It's hard for anyone who gets less. It's easy for those who get more. This has also been the case in this case, but that does not mean that we did not have to carry out the adjustment with cost keys. I think it wouldn't have been right to postpone it, it would have actually become even greater redistribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e220	In the last 30 years, crisis centres have had a central place in the work on violence in close relationships. The crisis centre offer is now legalised – a law that should make it clear that the public has a responsibility to ensure that people who are exposed to violence in close relationships get protection, help and follow-up. The crisis centre offer is now included in the framework grant, and it occurs before the law is well established. It happens before the municipalities have had time to ensure a good offer, and it happens before the real cost level is known. Why is the Workers' Party so hasty? And: Many existing crisis centres fear that they will have to build up their business if the appropriations do not increase radically. Does the Labour Party take these concerns seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e229	The Workers' Party is very concerned with crisis centres, and we have always been. Unfortunately, we have to have them. We should all wish we weren't in the situation that we needed them. That offer has now been included. We have also had the concern of some crisis centres in view of this funding, and we have said that we should follow the situation closely. When we give that signal, it means that we take the concern seriously and will follow closely, because we are interested in ensuring that there are sufficient resources and that this is going to work as it should for those who need it the most. Minister of Justice Storberget, from the Workers' Party, has been incredibly concerned with violence in close relations. It's also the Workers' Party, and the crisis centres are some of the things we're going to work on to combat this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e238	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e242	The party of progress has a somewhat different municipal political starting point than the government and the red-green parties. The core of our municipal policy is man. We mean that the municipalities are there for the inhabitants, and not the other way around. The public has a superior responsibility for the services provided, but does not have to assume tasks that individuals, businesses and individuals can do just as well or better. The party of progress does not have much left over for the new income system of the municipalities presented by the government in this proposition. Some small municipalities, especially some power municipalities, will probably come out useful, but more of the largest municipalities, as they have been called here before, will come out far worse than today. We believe that today's income system is antiquarian. Instead of faltering on a bureaucratic and unfair system, it would be better to turn it into state-led government funding, as the Progress Party has proposed. Today, the income system of the municipalities appears to be an irresponsible calculation game with the well-being of children and the elderly. We want a need-driven state funding of basic welfare services. It shall be such that, when a need is identified, it shall trigger government funding, whether it relates to hospitalisation, home care, home care, school, etc. That means it won't play any role with regard to these basic welfare services about a cage in a poor or rich municipality. One notes a need, and then it triggers funding from the state. In addition to this, we would like to be financed mainly through local taxation. But we're of course accepting that we're not getting through to it in this round, and probably not the first few years either. We must then reluctantly base our current framework licensing system and the challenges it poses. However, the party of progress is clear that the frameworks signaled by the government through this municipal proposal for 2011 are far from adequate in relation to the challenges facing the municipalities. The Progress Party therefore proposes to increase the municipal framework next year by 2.5 to 3 billion. kr more than the government part and the other parts are entered. 2.5 to 3 billion. In fact, many good welfare services in the municipalities will be triggered – more than what the government intends to do. KS – the community sector interest and employer organisation – also believes that municipalities need to increase the framework by 2.5 to 3 billion. kr more than the government has proposed. Thislift proposed by the Progress Party would, if agreed, mean more money for all the municipalities of the country. We believe that such an increase is necessary to ensure basic welfare services in the municipalities of all those who need it. Many things unfortunately go wrong in Kommune-Noreg. The local authorities are struggling with the poor economy. Indebtedness to the municipalities has doubled over the five years since the Senterpartiet has its seat with the municipal minister. New tasks will be imposed on municipalities, e.g. The cooperation reform, without money and all the regulations in place. The maintenance allowance has increased, and figures also show that municipalities cannot afford to benefit fully from favourable interest-free loans and health care facilities. Of course, the municipalities are getting poorer equipped to meet future challenges. The municipal bill 2011 also does not offer any positive prospects. Taking into account demographic developments, an ageing population and increasing costs due to it, and an increase in pension costs in Kommune-Noreg, an increase in interest and new tasks, mean that municipalities will not receive more money for the next year than they have this year. The bill also announces that municipalities will retain a smaller proportion of tax revenue. In summary, the municipality proposal for 2011 is far from a good reading for those who are busy with the welfare services and well-being of municipalities. The party of progress fears that an already strenuous economy in many municipalities will deteriorate to next year. This means, of course, that there are huge delays in many municipalities when it comes to the rehabilitation of municipal building stock and infrastructure resulting from a strenuous municipal economy, not being reduced, but increasing further. One of the areas we're concerned about is resource-requiring services. There was a worsening of the framework in the current year. The government part, the bulk of the population, reduced the reimbursement part from 85 pst. So let's say 80 pst. And then we also have an increase in the point of entry far more than the rise in the price. It did one with retroactive force. We in the Progress Party want to reverse this. We want the reimbursement part to increase again to 85 pst. We want to reduce the entry point initially to NOK 800,000, and we also want to drop the entry point further in the years that are coming, until we get down to about $800,000. 400,000 kroner. With the policy of the Progress Party, therefore, this weak group will have a better offer. With the government party's policy, this group will unfortunately get a worse offer in the years to come. One has previously dealt with this with an elderly care as a skin. The case spokesperson was concerned that luckily it was admitted that she was not yet shining. That's a good observation. We think we should make her shine, we need action and not just election fighting. We think it is a great paradox that one of the richest countries in the world, which according to the red-green parties is a welfare state that other countries seem to look up to, still have a steady news coverage in the media about major problems and misery in their old-age care system. The Progress Party believes that this situation is totally unacceptable, but unfortunately a quite natural consequence of a socialist system that rationalizes the provision of elderly care based on framework commitments and with economic frameworks that are too small and that can be freely used for other purposes, for the care of caring for the elderly. When funds are not automatically made available in response to a growing need and an ageing population, queues, waiting lists and higher thresholds for help must be achieved. The party of progress is of the opinion that a significant effort must be made to build hospitals. This should be done by increasing the back-up arrangements for the construction of sick homes to at least DKK 800000 per seat and by increasing the total frame so that 2 500 sick homes can be built as a minimum per year until the need is met. Some people may have thought that if a food eats the local authorities for a long time, they'll be more effective. Progress party doesn't trust it. We don't believe in such a policy. We believe that we should facilitate competition – internal competition and external competition. Competition thinks we're healthy. This gives you more benefit, effect and well-being for the limited money you have. In this way, we can have a positive development for the community sector for the benefit of the inhabitants and for the benefit of the service recipients. Today, we also have a budgeting system – an accounting system – that we think is obsolete and that covers the real economic situation in the municipalities. So we don't have a depreciation charge today. Right, the deduction is going to be a cost, but it'll often be a lot less than the real loss of value to which a depreciation would go. If we had had such a change — that is, if the depreciation system had been incorporated into the municipal budget, as all private companies have, this would probably have resulted in blood red numbers in most of the municipalities of the country. But that's what's real. It's creating an accounting system that doesn't show the impairment due to maintenance, and that one has a building mass that should have been depreciated, and that then decreases in value if you don't do anything about it, we don't think we're wrong, and we don't have a system to uncover it. So we want a system of depreciation, so we get the real reality. In Norway today we have 430 municipalities. There's too many of them. That should be reduced to less than 100. It would provide a better basis for providing good welfare and services in municipalities, because many municipalities are too small today to attract skills and to build up adequate skills. Unfortunately, it is not in this proposition that we put in a tool to get municipal approximations. This means that we have too many municipalities, as we have today. If we had reduced the number of municipalities, we could have improved the efficiency of Kommune-Noreg. We could be given free resources for well-being, and for the Progress Party, it is very important that the funds remain in the municipalities. Today, municipalities have no financial incentive to merge. I have previously asked the municipal minister what if two municipalities of 3,000 inhabitants in North Troms merge? What I get is that after 15 years, the state will make 31.6 million. 2010-krona – i.e. in reverse transfers to that municipality, while the municipality will then have a corresponding reduction in income and will have to streamline with the corresponding – by 31.6 million. kr to get to zero. One doesn't have to be psychic to realize that with such a system, we don't get a lot of municipal conjugations in the years to come. However, the courts shall have jurisdiction. The plural comment that the Progress Party is in, among others. the government party, that one should extend that transitional arrangement with full compensation after a municipal merger to 15 years instead of 10 years, is a step in the right direction, and we want more steps of this type to be taken. Fewer municipalities would also mean that we could have abolished the county municipality as owning a political, administrative level. There we could free additional billions of dollars that could be used for basic welfare services in the municipalities. Fewer and larger municipalities would also facilitate the use of modern welfare technologies, e.g. vacuum cleaner robots. It's a Danish test that shows that if one had taken advantage of this kind of technology, it would release 5,000 settings in the public sector. There are options that would benefit you from more user rights than today. My impression is that the government is currently doing little or nothing to implement new welfare technologies, and I hope that will of course be changed in the future. It's important that we do some short-term actions and some long-term actions to enable the municipalities to perform their services. In short, we need to add more money to our municipalities so that they can do their job. We have proposed two and a half to three billion. kr more than the government has proposed, and what the other parties have proposed. That's what we think is necessary. In the long term, we also have to look at changes in the accounting system, so that we can get a depreciation and a visualization of the real situation in Norway. So when you have a Soviet-inspired accounting system, you're going to have a sadly single unfortunate outcome. We need to stimulate healthy competition, and we also need to stimulate a more appropriate municipal structure in Norway. This will allow us to achieve more and better well-being for each of the municipalities. In conclusion, I will address the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or together with our friends in the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e305	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e310	Now we've heard the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, start talking about the Progress Party being busy with people, and then talk about accounting systems and depreciation for 15 minutes. But what I thought I was going to ask the representative about is more about today's way of financing the municipalities, which the Progress Party has declared to be an opponent of. The framework funding system they want to throw at the boat and instead they want to have a state bureaucratic piece price financing. This means that the Progress Party advises that framework funding is the most effective and unbureaucratic way of financing the local government sector, such as: Both the Rattsø Committee and the Borge Committee conclude with. The Progress Party says that they want less bureaucracy, while the policies they actually propose here in the Storting give more state bureaucracy. Last week we heard the Progress Party argue that we should have binding referendums, but now they argue to move decisions from local people elected and out to some state office to be set up. My question to the Progress Party will then be: What professional advice and assessments is the Advance Party leaning on when they call for such bureaucratic piece-price financing and claim that it is less bureaucratic? How do they feel that such a model should work in a long-term country such as Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e321	Yes, I note that the representative Sivertsen and the red-green have problems with this, but the Progress Party has no problem with this. We will also refer to the DRG index that hospitals operate with to specify the cost of the various interventions. It works well in the hospital sector. We have good experience with that there, and then it's at least as good a basis for using this in Kommune-Noreg. So it's like defining what needs you have, and then you get funded from the state. Then it has to be a little bit variable, depending on where you are in Norway, so you get more for a service in Utang-Noreg than a sheep in the center. It has to be accounted for, but in any case, there has to be a secure financing of the service, but the municipalities still have to be responsible for the production of these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e326	The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, began his speech by saying that the Progress Party had a different municipal political base than the other parties. He could also have completed saying that you have a completely different economic starting point than all the other parties. An increased framework in the municipal sector of between 2.5 and 3 billion is proposed here. kr. If you read the setting, you'll also find that you want another 90 billion. kr to county roads. Not long ago, the Progress Party proposed to remove all toll obligations, and every time we deal with matters in this Chamber, the response from the Progress Party is increased public appropriations. This is happening at a time when Europe is otherwise tightening its lifeline and increasing its competitiveness. My question to the representative Hagesetter is: is the road to increased prosperity for our people and our children through increased public spending, and ultimately bankrupt, and less competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e333	I just want to say that the future is in better infrastructure, that one invests in the municipalities, and that one of course also invests in the infrastructure and in the roads in the municipalities. I think we have the opposite situation, that one is about to save itself. So one has a road system and a road level in Norway, which is too bad, which goes beyond business, and which leads to extra costs. We have an alternative government budget that looks very good on how we finance these investments, both with a little bit more oil and also cut. by the farmers. We think that's important. I am proud that I belong to a party that is both able to invest in infrastructure and that is investing in the municipalities and the welfare of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e338	It is less than a week since we were told that at least one of the other representatives of the Progress Party did not understand what the state price financing system of the Progress Party is all about, namely that it is the state and Gjermund Hageseter who are going to sit here and decide what to give priority to – whether there should be older care, whether there should be school, whether there should be child protection, rather than that job with priorities, this important democratic job, is done in the individual municipality. All the other parties here on the Storing are for local democracy. The party of progress is too government governance. I don't know who has the most Soviet economic system, us or the Progress Party? But let me ask about one thing that's very unclear to me, and that's the way the Progress Party thinks about tax financing administration and culture and all the things that aren't valuable enough for the Progress Party to get state funding. Does the Progress Party realize that in a municipality with few inhabitants, it means higher taxes than in municipalities with many inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e345	I note that neither the representative Heikki Holmås nor the red-green understands how it works. Nor do we expect the Red-Greens to introduce this for the Progress Party. We would rather bet that we would get an impact on this in 2013 and beyond, after we had the biggest choice then. We want to legislate basic welfare services, and it is not supposed to be politicians who make priorities, as it is today, whether or not they can afford to provide welfare services. It should be such that when one triggers a need, one receives funding from the state, so that those who live in poor municipalities will be entitled to the same services as those who live in rich municipalities. Then it is quite right that, as far as the representative Heikki Holmås was concerned, we have many small municipalities today. The progress party wants to stimulate us to get fewer municipalities and larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e354	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e357	Municipalities should have the necessary freedom to facilitate local growth, wealth growth and welfare production. The government’s 2011 proposal for a municipal bill does not take the necessary steps to ensure local development and growth. Local self-determination ensures closeness to decisions, participation for the inhabitants and a living democracy. The municipality proposal for 2011 does not provide the necessary room for action for municipalities to operate in a rational and cost-effective manner, and the instruments announced by the government are not sufficient to provide local influence and co-determination local policies. We see the government's approach as low as dynamic and indicate that, in the consideration of regional reform, we promoted a number of new proposals on tasks to the municipalities, as well as proposals on the transition from today's three-level model, state, counties and municipalities to a more efficient management model with the two levels, state and municipalities. The government of Stoltenberg II has created an expectation crisis in Kommune-Norway. The media and political debate give the impression that Kommune-Norge has received at least 32 billion. kr more to go with to improve the service provision. I am not quite sure whether Norwegian advisers and rapporteurs share this view. According to the government, municipalities will have an increase in their free revenues of between 2.5 and 3 billion. kr in 2011. That's half of the need that KS announced in advance. In the municipal proposition for 2011, the government itself refers to calculations carried out by the Technical Calculation Committee, which indicate that in 2011 the municipal sector could receive additional expenditure of about 2.4 billion. kr related to demographic development. 400 million. SEK is set aside for discretionary grants, to be distributed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the municipalities that lose more than DKK 100 per capita on the conversion of the income system. In other words, the notified growth in free income for municipalities will only be sufficient to cover expenditure arising from changes in population composition. It is not right that the scheme for the local economy in 2011 will allow for improved service provision and continued growth beyond demographic developments. So this is creating expectations, this by adding the list so high that the municipalities have to tear down, which makes frustration increase. It also means that many people are sitting and waiting for more money, rather than getting rid of more efficiency, rationalisation and important debates on changes in municipal structures. In its 2011 draft government budget, the right will have a scheme for the municipal sector that will give the sector the same financial autonomy as the government proposes, but we want a different device. In our opinion, municipalities should retain a greater proportion of their tax revenues locally. We'll give the municipalities greater freedom and let them keep a larger share of the value creation locally. This was stated by the KS at its national government meeting on 28 May, which probably drowned a little, because it was probably the day the strike started. The government of the KS says unanimously: «The Government proposes that the share of tax revenue in the income of the local government sector be reduced from 45% to 40%. Tax-weak municipalities will benefit from it, while municipalities where citizens contribute more tax losses. The national government of the KS believes that local anchoring of income is important for local self-government.» It is important that incentives are given to generate income in their own municipality and to drive industrial development. We believe that municipalities must retain at least half of their own tax revenue. It is important that municipalities are stimulated to carry out active economic and development activities, thus contributing to increased value creation and growth in tax incentives. By constantly weakening the importance of tax incentives for municipalities, the government is counteracting such developments. Under the government of Bondevik II, the municipalities were given 50 pst. of the tax revenue. So now the fraction goes down from 45 pst. to 40 pst. That's why we're also suggesting that we get this tax rate back up to 50 pst, so that the municipalities get a greater incentive to drive business development. The same applies to corporation tax. There, the Bondevik II government had submitted a share of the corporate tax that the municipalities had retained, which provided the basis for a positive and forward-looking industrial policy. With the government's arrangements, where one reduces the tax share and does not allow the municipalities to retain any of the corporation tax, the incentives for the development of a high-growth industrial policy in the municipalities are effectively removed. This is very unfortunate and sends out signals that the efforts of municipalities in this area are of little importance. It's a contradiction to what the Right believes. The number of tasks assigned to municipalities is increasing to an extent. This increase can help municipalities to come together to address common challenges. But the incentives for merging municipalities are not sufficient, on the contrary, they are almost non-existent to carry out such aggregation. On the right, several incentives are requested by the government to enable municipal mergers. A municipal structure with many small municipalities is a challenge with a view to ensuring that they are able to provide the most equivalent of the services the municipalities are expected to provide. We will therefore, if we get the opportunity to do so, implement a comprehensive task reform that creates better services and larger and more robust municipalities. We have proposed a financial framework for the municipal sector from 2007 to today and until next year that had given the same space for action as the government has. But our alternative means that a greater proportion of revenue had come from retaining a larger share of own tax revenue in municipalities. This would, of course, mean a more even growth for the sector, continue to focus on improving efficiency and renewing and expectations for the sector in line with the economic framework. The expenditure of municipalities in recent years has increased more than that of the government. The policy of today's government is that municipalities receive grants in the first year of action, but that the government then removes the grant. This practice implies that many municipalities are entrusted with unfunded tasks. Today's government has also excelled in providing municipalities and companies with more and more statutory tasks without the funding being included. This means that municipalities have to cut into their other responsibilities. More and more points to the fact that the State, by departments and directorates, sends letters to the municipalities where they come with expectations, so-called letters of expectation, on how to carry out tasks. This puts pressure on municipalities and helps to reduce the political space for action. The government weakens its many demands, expectations and demands of local self-government and undermines the autonomy of the municipalities. On this basis, reforms will be implemented to ensure greater freedom and accountability for local communities. Finally, a few words – or quite a few words – about the government’s proposal to include kindergartens in the framework grant. Important hearing bodies such as KS, the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager and Unio, which were some of the few who met at the hearing on the municipal bill, have pointed out that there are many uncertainties about the funding of kindergartens. A real non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens is still not in place, despite government promises. It is essential that regulations and laws fully ensure this non-discrimination, and we ask that the government ensure that this is clarified as soon as possible. The new cost key for the calculation of the nursery allowance is also followed by questions from the same hearing bodies. The right will ask that the government in the 2011 budget respond to whether the educational criterion is too specific – i.e., in a municipality with highly educated people, there should be many kindergartens, while in a municipality with low-skilled people there should be fewer kindergartens – whether small and scattered housing is captured, and whether sufficient consideration has been given to areas with high costs of property. We also refer to the report from Telemarksforschung, which was made for KS, on the inclusion of the nursery grant, where it says: ‘The day’s grant-based grant provides perfect compensation for variation in needs since grants are paid at each actual place. [[demand]] No other model can therefore provide better consistency between funding and the actual level of demand for nursery facilities.’» These are issues that the government needs to assess and at the same time put in place in the regulations a real non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens. That is why we are also promoting a proposal to have a concrete timetable for phase-in. We know that there is a five-year plan, but we want to know more exactly how this non-discrimination is going to be implemented, before we can go into a discussion about including the nursery allowance. We are in principle for inclusion, we want inclusion, we want fewer earmarked grants, but when so many questions are asked and there is so much doubt as to whether the municipalities actually get compensated for the cost of taking over the kindergartens, if there is a real equal treatment of private and municipal kindergartens, we will expect to take a position on this inclusion until such clarification is available. That's what we hope to get into the state budget, so it's possible to make that clarification there. I'm dealing with what the Right proposal has with the Christian People's Party, and I hope we can have a good debate on the proposition here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e410	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e416	The representative of Greece believes that the government's municipal structure is not very dynamic. Now I am not going to ask what Greece thinks about the rapporteur in Sandefjord, but on the Dayrevy yesterday we could hear him just asking for a policy for even stronger income balancing between municipalities. Sandefjord has tax revenues below the national average. The right-hand arrangement of the municipal economy will move large sums from tax-weak to tax-advanced municipalities. It seems negative for more than Sandefjord, among others. with many municipalities in the representative of Greece and my own home country, Buskerud. My question to Greece is: Why do Right and Helleland want a kind of reverse Robin Hood policy – take money from tax-deprived municipalities, for example. Sandefjord or Obere and Lower Eiker to give them to rich municipalities such as Ashes and Bears?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e427	I used quite large parts of my post to explain just that, but I can repeat it. We think it is necessary for municipalities to have good incentives for business development, for growth, for investing in and facilitating jobs. The representative of Christoffersen knows very well that in a city like Drammen, for example, there has been a lot of focus on creating new jobs, creating activity. If you keep a larger share of the tax revenue, it'll be good. But if it was intended to, for example, 50 pst. of the tax revenue should remain in the municipality, it is not that we would not have seen other factors in another arrangement, if we had been in government. After all, there are myriads of factors that affect the income development of municipalities. Sandefjord is the municipality of the country with the lowest income per year. the population, and it is clear that a balance sheet or model must be found that could affect this. But the important thing is to give an incentive to create income, and then you have to keep more of the tax. For example, the centre party has proposed freedom of taxation in municipalities. It would be a system that it would have been nice to hear the views of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e436	Let me just start by saying that I agree with what Trond Helleland says about all the departments having their ‘babies’ that they want the municipalities to take care of. This gives you a number of departments that send out signals and say, "These are the expectations we have. There I believe that we should listen to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, for the Minister of Municipal Affairs, as the 'coordination minister' for the whole of the municipal sector, see the government's priorities in the State budget as a whole. This year, there is one sector that is specifically mentioned in the priorities, and it is that we say that this year's municipal scheme will provide room for 400 new posts in the protection of children. Then I notice that the Right is a supporter of a child-restraint plan. But they do not support the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to consider the possible designation of funds. Can Trond Helleland say anything about how he wants the municipalities to actually prioritize more child protection positions and bet on child protection within a stepping-up plan if he does not care about earmarking?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e445	First, I would like to say that the description of the municipal minister's efforts to reduce earmarked grants, expectations and demands, etc. is a good description of a rhetorical government has. But it's far from reality. It is during this government – I kept saying – the increasing noise level in the municipalities about letters of expectation, about demands, about the so-called free means that are expected to be used for yours and your daughter, has arrived. That is the main challenge for this government, namely to do what the Council of State says she will do, to give the municipalities greater freedom of action, to give them more opportunity to pursue their own policies. I think if the municipalities get a clearer signal that it has to be invested in it or that, they'll follow it up. But then there must also be funds. The same applies to child protection. We're not saying that we're opposed to any kind of earring, but we're not saying that's the first thing we should start with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e452	The representative of Greece started his speech by saying that there is no need for intervention for local development and growth. At the same time, there is a very static representation of the sector, both in terms of service production, service development and, not least, the need for increased income from the use of pure demographic production. My own experience is that the municipal sector bubbles. Developments in the provision of services are continuing. You keep doing things a little bit smarter than what you've done before. I think that Greece and the Right could have credited the municipal sector for that. Otherwise, I will also challenge the fact that we have raised the floor in terms of transfers to the municipalities. It came in 2005. We've still done that, and it's been hard for the Right to try to move it down again. So right in second rhetoric, the growth of government employees is too high. How does this relate to the fact that you're laying here at the same level and actually suggesting that the growth is too low?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e463	If the representative Borten Moe has got the impression that the Right does not value the creative work done in the municipalities, he has been wrong. The right is very satisfied with what many municipalities do. There are many municipalities that have a lot of good proposals, a lot of good reforms, etc., things they want to carry out, but usually it is stopped because there is some state order, some state bureaucracy that says you can't do this. That's why we really agree with the Central Party in the rhetoric regarding the municipal sector. We want it to flourish, we want it to be self-determination and freedom of action for the municipalities. We don't want state conducting at all microlevels. But what's the challenge is to give the municipalities that trust. We see that in this matter of nursing homes, where the Council of State ensures that even housing laws are not worthy to receive subsidies to build nursing homes of fear that maybe a penny can go to the private sector. This is not central party politics, Ola Borten Moe!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e470	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e473	There may well be no debate where the difference between the real priorities of the right-hand side and the left-hand side is as clear as in the debate on the municipalities, the municipal sector and the municipal economy. During the first four years of our first period of government, we had an increase in the expenditure and income of the local government sector of 41 billion. kr. And during that period, there are therefore tens of thousands of people in public positions employed to do a job of care, in kindergarten – to ensure that people living around in all the municipalities of the country get a better and more well-functioning offer. This stands in stark contrast to the government period that was ahead, where the Right showed its true face and showed what they stood for, when in the last three years they ruled, new people were almost not employed in the public sector in the municipalities at all. It was because instead of spending money on improved welfare for people – right together with the Christian People’s Party, the Left and the Advance Party, who helped to adopt two of the three budgets – chose to spend money on tax relief. 23 B.C.E. So kr became the fasit of tax relief for that period, while the municipal sector starved. There's no doubt that we're creating expectations. And we think it's good to create expectations that we have a public sector and an offer in the municipalities that keeps up with the development of the private wealth people feel. People can afford new flat screens, they're replacing their old televisions even if they're not worn out at all, because they have the opportunity to get an improvement in private wealth. At the same time, if you experience that the public is not keeping pace, you will have a failure in trust with the community, and you will have a privatisation of welfare services instead. That's a development we don't want on the left hand side. We want it to be a good welfare offer. That the right-hand side wants an opposite development, and has proven that they want the opposite development through actually managed policies, they get to stand for themselves. So we've hired new people, and we're spending the money on welfare. And the biggest bet we made during the last government period, and we now very clearly see the consequences of, at the latest in the year we're in now, and also last year, was the bet on kindergarten. Never has there been so much bet on kindergarten. We increased the babysitting from about 76 pst. in 2005 to over 88 pst. in 2009. 47,000 more kids have been accommodated in kindergarten. This is clear evidence that we are serious when we focus on welfare improvements in the municipalities. Why is this good? I am a pediatric fundamentalist: I believe that kindergartens are absolutely right. Unfortunately, I only got one year in a public kindergarten during my childhood. Kindergartens are well documented for education, for the chances of completing the school, it is good for equality, and it provides a freedom of choice that is completely sub-communicated from some of the right parties. It actually gives an freedom of choice to have security for the opportunity to go out and work instead of being at home, which you have to do if you don't get kindergarten. Why is this freedom of choice important? And why does the policy in practice show that this is more important for the left-hand side than for the right-hand side? Well, because parties like Left and Right want to increase the cost of people having their kids in kindergarten. If you increase costs, there will be fewer who can afford it. If the number of people who can afford it is lower, the number of people who have freedom of choice. We believe that a commitment to welfare around the municipalities, around the whole municipality of Norway, is important, not just because there is a need for services out there, but because a good welfare state and a well-functioning municipal sector are crucial for distribution. Rolf Aaberge, a researcher at the Central Bureau of Statistics, has said that what actually works most smoothly, and that really shows that Norway is a society that contributes to redistribution, is both social security benefits and not least the welfare offer, which is privatised in many other countries, and that one has to stand for itself through private insurance schemes or by paying for it. So we have it as part of the welfare offer we take for granted around the municipalities. So a good welfare state is good for distribution. In addition, there's one more thing that's important with a strong municipal sector, which I want to challenge a little bit on the right side. The right-hand side says very clearly that they believe that a greater proportion of the income in the municipal sector should come from taxes, because it will be more stabilising for the municipal sector — that was one — more stable growth. And I disagree. Nor is it the case that in their national government decision, KS says that they want an increase in the proportion to 50 pst, as the right-wing parties say they fully agree with KS in, and take KS’s statements to revenue for it. KS doesn't say that, they don't say anything about that distribution. They're just saying that it's important that you have a local income base. Now we've been up in the financial crisis. The fact that we have a high level of taxation in Norway has made us more robust in dealing with the financial crisis. If a greater proportion of the income of the local government sector comes through taxes, they would be more exposed to the fluctuations occurring in the international economy – it goes right into action. We've been through the last eight years, all the time I've been sitting on the Stortinget – nine years now – how fluctuations in economic cycles hit right into the municipal sector. And that's okay when it goes up, then you get to keep more money. But it's very negative when you're in a recession and maybe especially need to get a stake in the development of business. I also want to include just one last thing in terms of arguing against an increased tax rate. Right, and especially Trond Greece, argues that this will be positive for business development. I have asked KS, NHO and Right for the nine years I have been sitting on the Stortinget: give me a single research report that shows that it is the municipalities that are working on industrial policy that are coming out well. It's not like that. When I go to the Right-Rapporteur in Bø or meet Mayor Monica Mæland in Bergen, there is no doubt that the one who talks the most about the welfare challenges is Monica Mæland in Bergen, the one who talks the most about business development, is the rapporteur in Bø. Nevertheless, it would be Monica Meland who was left with the most money if one got a greater share of the money through corporate tax, not the rapporteur in Bø. That this has some connection at all, I've hurt to see. And so I didn't get a single proof that it actually is. Let me do something about the big grips we're doing in relation to the conversion. After all, that's all that's the big change in the municipal sector that we're doing from this year to next year. One thing we do is we update the cost keys. They're absolutely necessary to update, because it's been 15 years since the last time it's been done in some of the areas. When people get older, however, we actually spend less money on the care of the oldest – or the young older – because some of them stay fresher. It is reflected in the actual use of money by municipalities, and it is now reflected in the municipality keys. The second is that we've spent a lot of time in school in recent years, upgrading, several hours in elementary school, and more teachers for those who go in the lowest stages, to get early work done. All of this leads us to spend more money on the youngest now than before. It's reflected in the conversion we're doing. That's why I think it's completely incomprehensible that the Progress Party is running ostrich politics by saying, "We're against the system, and we don't want to do it fair as long as we don't get it exactly the way we want it." It is a kind of ostrich policy that, in my opinion, a responsible political party should not operate. The second thing we do is we improve the cost keys. They now take better account of some of the major urban challenges that exist. We have a lot of people with a minority background in Oslo. We have major living conditions problems. This is taken more into account in the cost keys. We've got a better grip on the costs of the small municipalities. That's why it's inside, it's up-to-date, it's improved. But it is clear that the challenge of all forms of inclusion, whether in the case of crisis centres or kindergartens, is to be able to do this in an accurate way. We have chosen to apply the best possible objective criteria. It's inside. And then we've seen that it's given us some results. This is why we have also implemented changes in the degree of cohesion — the political grips of income balancing and the income system of municipalities. And we've taken action to make sure that we lower the tax rate and increase what goes over the frame, because it gives better distribution overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e507	We might just know what we could have expected if the representative had had more than one year in kindergarten. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e512	In the 2009 government budget, the transfer mechanism for resource-requiring services was improved. At the end of 2009, the government reversed the scheme with retroactive effect. When the committee moved around in the previous period, the arrangements for transferring the key to municipalities of resource-required services were one of the most critical things for which we – the committee and the government – received the most criticism. As a result, the government in the 2009 government budget improved the scheme, so that it was almost in line with what the Progress Party wanted. SV is a party that talks hot for the weakest in society. Why doesn't SV want us to get back the scheme with which the government budgeted in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e519	This was carefully mentioned in the budget proposal for the year we are now in. It is one thing that is important to say in this regard, and it is that if we look at the period we have been sitting together – from 2005 to today – we have improved the resource-requiring user scheme in relation to what it was before we took over. So it's quite right, as Starheim's representative says, that we made adjustments to this arrangement. The background to this was simply that there was a strong increase in the use of the scheme, and we wanted to make sure to limit the growth in the use of the scheme until we had an overview of what it was for. Now we have the review in the report that is available, which is also mentioned in the proposition. Here's something that's a real growth in need. Then there's something small that's been on reporting arrangements, which we've now done something about. Overall, we believe that the scheme is now good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e527	The representative Holmås is an enthusiastic person, but he is constantly hurting to talk about «our» money, and that the red-green parties grant money for well-being and good ends. I just want to ask the representative, who is also an economist, if he is aware of where the money comes from. Are they from the parties, or are they from the taxpayers? That's the one question. The second is that the representative Holmås earlier in an article praised the municipal minister as our coordination minister for the municipal sector. Then I could imagine whether Holmås is satisfied with the effect of this coordination, and whether he can give some example of the fact that the Minister of Coordination for the Municipal Sector – to quote Holmås – has really helped to coordinate some state interests in favor of local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e534	That's people's money. What we run and manage is people's money. And we spend that money the way people think makes sense. So it is that the right, who spent the money on comprehensive tax relief – mostly for the people who had the most in the past – did not regain the confidence of the voters in 2005 after pursuing such a policy. Instead, we who have spent the money on strengthening well-being, spent the money on investing in more kindergartens, lower kindergarten prices, got renewed trust for the next four years. I think it gives a very good signal as to what people think are priorities. People don't believe in right-hand ideas that it's better for each one to finance his own pension and his own insurances – that is, to do all of this yourself, completely dissolved and individually – than to do this together. It is much more efficient, and it is much better distributional to ensure that everyone has a good offer funded through the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e541	After such a tirade of self-responsiveness in view of what this government has done, it would be thought that the municipal sector is pure heaven on earth. But the representative will have a question that might show something else. Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion Lysbakken recently stated in Stavanger Aftenblad, i.e. May 3rd: ‘We have a critical situation in municipal child protection.’ Is the representative Heikki Holmås from SV comfortable with the situation we have in municipal child protection, and how long is it okay for SV that the situation in child protection is as unacceptable, critical and serious as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e551	We're very concerned about child protection. That's the background to the fact that it was the only area that was mentioned related to government priorities when we last allocated money to the local government sector, when we said that we thought this would give room for 400 new child protection sites. We're not satisfied with the way the problems are distributed between the state child protection and the municipal child protection, and so you've started a review of the whole area to see how we can make these things work better. It is absolutely critical that municipalities have the power to prioritise and take care of their children and to follow them up when they need it, right from the start. Otherwise, it is, first of all, many lives that risk going to the game – not in the sense that a door, but that a person gets bad lives. Secondly, for society, wasted money and wasted human lives. So I'm very concerned that we're getting a good child protection around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e560	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e563	Let me start by saying that today we are dealing with an exciting sector that concerns us all in a lot of ways. I want to deepen it a little bit with the dynamics of the sector, with the development, because in many, many municipalities, initiatives are taken every day that characterise social development both locally and gradually also centrally. Much of the welfare development in Norway is a bottom-up development, with municipalities often taking the initiative. Then this is adopted by the state and inserted into the national framework. The treatment of the cooperation reform is a good example of just that: it is the municipalities that have taken responsibility, try to get things done, have done it and have good experience, and now this is to be implemented nationally. The community proposition we are dealing with today responds well to the challenges facing municipalities. Revenue is increased. There is a good and decent framework for municipal service production also in the coming year. Local democracy is developing further. Never has there been such a large proportion of free income, and this is also shown by the results. Never have so many people got that much. There's a lot of investment going on. There has been a picture of several representatives from the opposition here earlier today, especially from Hagesets, of poverty and very poor buildings. My picture is on the contrary that there are becoming very many beautiful buildings, both school buildings, nursing homes and kindergartens, around this country. Babysitting is soon to be completed. There are many, many offers that are in better condition now than they have been before. But it is also not possible to stick under the chair that there are major challenges. The demography is changing. We know that there are many people who make greater demands, and services are becoming increasingly complicated. I therefore have great respect and understanding for those of our local politicians and our rapporteurs who describe a challenging everyday life. So, to look a little bit forward: in this room, when we discuss this topic, we have a hang to focus only on increasing municipal income. I think that's part of the solution, but I'm also quite sure it's not the whole solution, simply because the efficiency and development of service production is also important in the public sector and in the municipal sector. My experience is that it happens in all the municipalities of the country. It's hardly a municipality that does things exactly the same now as it did ten years ago. That is precisely why it is so important that we do not go into the line for which the Progress Party is a spokesman, with piece-price financing and state over-test. The entire dynamics associated with the development of public service production in the municipal and county sectors are then lost. I have already mentioned the Interaction Reform as an important step in this way. But there are more. I think there's room for change and development in most municipal areas, and I think there's room for increased focus on the expenditure side also from this pulpit. To take some obvious themes: sick leave is one. In too many municipalities sick leave is too high. It costs a lot of money. In my own municipality, Trondheim, it is about 10 p.m. That means that 1,200 people are away from work every day. It's not good for them, and of course it's a tragedy for the municipal fund. We know that a lot of municipalities spend much more money on energy costs in construction than they would ideally have had to do. We also know that there are big differences in operation. We have conducted an unrelenting investigation between Trondheim and Stjørdal. It is relatively similar to user satisfaction, but the underlying cost level is very different. Had Trondheim driven as efficiently as Stjørdal, we're talking about savings of a three-digit million – and that's conservative numbers. It shows that there's room for thinking differently, there's room for looking at the cost side. It is also a great responsibility for our local politicians. There will be new reforms with specialised offers and increased demands. It faces increased interaction and cooperation challenges in the municipal sector. Our major challenge will be to ensure democracy, openness and reprobability. I believe that also requires driving rules from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e583	During this debate, red-green representatives have tried to put political color on what has been called the reverse Robin Hood, who takes from the poor and gives to the rich. But there's a lot of evidence that this inverted Robin Hood actually has a red-green party color, at least if we're going to believe the NRK. A look-up on NRK's websites yesterday said it quite clearly: «Rive powerhouses become the winners of the new income system. The population of the country's powerhouses will earn an average of 761 kroner more with the new rules.' Of the 24 poorest municipalities in this country, almost half will have reduced income. My question is, since it is the small municipalities that are the winners: Is this a greeting from the Senterpartiet home to its own municipalities and a punishment against municipalities where the Senterpartiet is in poor shape?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e595	We know that different tax bases are the biggest single cause of a different service offer. That is why we have considered it reasonable to achieve greater cohesion. Then, of course, we take note that the Progress Party is of the very opposite opinion and wants to increase the differences in the income base between municipalities – not only here, but also in the case of corporate tax. This would have led to further different services in this country. I'll call that unsolidarian and stranger for our part. Then you make this a question of the income framework of the power stations. Let me just say that these municipalities have surrendered large parts of their natural resources and natural resources to the benefit of energy production for the big society. It would simply be lacking that part of the enormous value creation that lies in these hydroelectric power stations, in these water stations, does not become local again, creating a breeding ground for the development and development of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e602	I want to come back a little bit to the dual role of municipalities both as entrepreneurs of state welfare ambitions and by having the freedom to make decisions, based on local circumstances. My question to the representative Mr. Borten Moe, who was concerned with the fact that the proportion of earmarked grants had gone down and enjoyed it, is: Isn't the total order and central government that, without budgetary responsibility, obliges the municipalities to implement a far greater threat than the exact transmission mechanism? Then the question comes to the following: Is the representative Borten Moe satisfied with the development of the municipal sector, which has weakened municipal autonomy and strengthened the centralist forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e609	First of all, I believe it is important also from this pulpit to enjoy what you should enjoy, and I think that the representative Tetzschner and I would agree that it is at least good that the earmarked grants have fallen, which gives increased freedom of action for Norwegian municipalities and increased opportunities for local democracy. Of course, we are not satisfied with the fact that the proportion of government orders goes up. Of course, we also see the problem in it. Of course, there's something we're going to have increased focus on in the time that's coming. And with little luck, we may be able to stand here next year and say that in the year that has passed, the share of the directive from central government to Norwegian municipalities has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e617	In the light of the administrative reform, it appears that the county councils are essentially taking responsibility for new tasks in a very good way. In the transport sector, we see that more money is being spent on the road than before. In fact, more money is spent on the road than what is transferred from the state. The government has promised to keep sufficient money with it when large parts of the national road network were transferred to the county municipalities – a national road network with a huge maintenance network. Is the representative of the Central Party satisfied with what his own government has put up with by means so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e624	I believe that there is a reasonable settlement underlying the transfer of the national roads to the county municipalities between the state and the county municipalities. Then I also register with pleasure that this is a very good priority around the counties, and that a lot of money is spent on this. Then I think we should also be aware of the dynamics of the county municipalities taking over it, simply because it opens up too much local initiative, including with elements of self-financing. That I think is an example will be seeing more and more of in the future. As I see it, there is at all no contradiction between the basis of settlement on which the transfers were based and the result we are now seeing with increased activity. On the contrary, it is entirely after the intention and very good and happy news.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e631	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e634	The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. This presupposes that power distribution and funding are such that both municipalities and county municipalities have the means to carry out their tasks. Municipalities are the main provider of welfare services. This requires a predictable and good local economy. There must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipalities and the finances of the municipalities. State reforms and impositions must therefore be followed up by adequate free means. Unfortunately, these considerations have not been sufficiently addressed by the government for the municipalities in 2011. The increase in the free resources is only half of what is needed according to the KS. In the municipal bill, the government itself refers to calculations carried out by the Technical Calculation Committee for the Municipal and Municipal Economy, which indicates that in 2011 the local government sector could receive additional expenditure of about 2.4 billion. kr related to demographic development. 400 million. SEK of the free income is also allocated to discretionary funds, which are to be allocated by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the municipalities that lose more than DKK 100 per municipality. incorporates the conversion of the income system. In other words, the notified growth in free income for municipalities will only be sufficient to cover expenditure arising from changes in the composition of the population. The reality of many municipalities will be the status quo at best, and the municipal economy is most likely to result in many municipalities having to cut into important services such as care, school and child protection next year. The Christian People's Party does not think it is right as suggested by the government in the municipal proposition, that the scheme for the municipal economy in 2011 will allow for improved service provision and continued growth, in addition to the demographic development required. The Christian People's Party believes that the community structure must be strengthened in addition to the government's proposals if there is to be room for greater financial freedom, increased teacher's density in school, better quality of care services and upgrading child protection. The Christian People's Party has fought for a long time to bring about a rapprochement plan for municipal child protection. It is therefore disappointing that the government is not alerting a escalation for the next year, but is only careful to assess the development of child protection towards the 2011 budget. This is about giving the most vulnerable children the best possible care. Then to the crisis centers. Crisis centres have had a central place in the fight against violence in close relationships for the past 30 years. It was necessary that the municipal crisis centre offer be legalised in order to secure the offer. The law was to clarify that the public has a responsibility to ensure that persons exposed to violence in close relationships are protected, assisted and properly followed. I am in principle for locally adapted solutions and local self-government. However, the Christian People's Party has warned against integrating the crisis centre offer into the framework grant already now, before the law is well established and the municipalities have had time and opportunity to ensure a good offer and the real cost level is known. Many existing crisis centres fear that if the appropriations are not increased radically, they will have to build up their activities. A transfer of responsibility for the crisis centre offer in line with the legal requirements for the municipalities is not sensible until the offer is developed to the standard and performs the functions set by the law. The Christian People’s Party therefore disagrees with the setting of such a short time frame as one year before the transfer to the municipality takes place, and believes that the transfer should only take place once the offer has been developed and the cost framework for the future crisis centre offer is further defined. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Christian People's Party is alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e653	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e658	The representative Confessor has just pointed to a number of needs in the municipal sector. Today, the Christian People's Party is promoting a series of proposals alone or with other parties. Among other things, there is a desire to phase out non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens, to step up capacity in certain municipal services and to improve distribution between state and local authorities in the case of resource-intensive services. The Labour Party does not disagree with the fact that the Christian People's Party points in important areas, but these are proposals that cost money, in part a lot of money. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Becquerad, to explain how the Christian People's Party is making its proposals possible. Where is it to be cut? What will the Christian People's Party downgrade in relation to what is the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e665	If the representative Håkon Haugli reads the alternative government budget of the Christian People's Party, he will first see that we don't have much more money than the government has. We do not have – as the Progress Party – almost unlimited resources. We are often at the same level as the government. We'll probably do that in the future as well. But if you look at how we prioritize the money, we use the big money differently from what the government parties do. Within the same framework, we have other priorities that allow us to have room to increase the provision of services, among other things. in the case of resource-requiring services, in the case of child protection, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e670	I travel a lot around Municipality-Norway. There's one thing that I'm a little over in the proposal of the Christian People's Party, to say no to the inclusion of the nursery allowance now. This was one of the things that the Christian People's Party, when we entered into the kindergarten agreement in its time, was on the clock. The Christian People's Party says you're not a fundamental opponent of it, but you think this isn't good enough. Now it's been a little while since the municipality proposition was presented. Does the Christian People's Party have any better suggestions than what lies there, concretely, about how inclusion should happen, and when should it happen? Now it's full child-care coverage according to the criteria that we're the United States of America. That's the one. The second is: the Christian People's Party supports, along with the rest of the opposition, a proposal to look at an equalization of the North Troms grant and the Finnmark grant, but it says nothing about whether this should be done through new money or by taking from the other North Norway grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e677	I'll try to answer both questions. With regard to the inclusion of the nursery allowance in the framework, the Christian People's Party believes that it is too early. Of course, we don't mind that this is going to happen, but it has to happen at a time like that. the costs associated with these costs are well known and well established in the municipalities. Then we also say that we should wait to integrate this into the framework grant until we have been given equal treatment between private and public kindergartens. There's something about waiting for things to happen. We're not fundamentally opposed to introducing this into the framework system. We have said clearly that we are for that, we are for that in principle, but it must happen at a time that, among other things. the level of costs is well known. With regard to the municipalities in the action zone, we point to the unfair discrimination between the municipalities of Finnmark and the municipalities of Nord-Troms. We believe that there is no technical justification for the discrimination that the government has committed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e686	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e689	When we, as ordinary citizens in Norway, meet the welfare state, we almost always meet the municipality. The left has a belief that a good and living government will find good solutions locally. We have great faith that making solutions that are close to people actually provides the best solutions – not just the most effective solutions, not just the most economic solutions, but the best solutions for each one. The representative Holmås said he is a nursery founder. Yes, there are actually two fundamentalist wings in this debate. It is true that one of them touches the term ‘childcare’. We see that we have a government that is fanatically concerned that everything is going to be done in public, and you are much more concerned about who does the job than what job is done. We now see that in the nursery sector you are not so busy with the private kindergartens, you are concerned that there should be public kindergartens. In the construction of nursing homes, care homes are not so concerned about how much they should be, how many they should be — the most important thing is that they should be built by the public. Local solutions can be made by public employees, believes the Left, but often there are smart solutions locally, and it does not always mean that there are public employees to carry them out. On the other hand, we see another kind of fundamentalism, namely the fundamentalism of the Progress Party. It is believed that we should create a right bureaucracy, where all people's needs can be defined by a right system. To that I would like to mention an example that was kind of an aha experience for me. I was at Ammerud, and then an old lady came to me and said, "Now I've got a diagnosis of all my pains and pains that I've had for many years, but do you know what that led to?" It led to that now my entire apartment is packed with aids that came automatically, but no one helps me with what any old lady needs help, namely washing the windows. For her it was not to have clean windows – and we all know old ladies like that – the worst. But all the tools – which almost didn't get in its passage – that were automatically triggered by a diagnosis, she wanted to get rid of it. Good care is best done when your expectations meet with a dialogue on how to make good solutions, and then the right fundamentalism of the Progress Party is wrong. I also believe that the municipal structure is a barrier to making the good solutions. It's not a savings reform that the Left is talking about. But what we're talking about is that if we're going to make good solutions now, if we're going to get the intention of the government's cooperation reform, if we're going to get a good child protection, we need good professionalism. It's a completely different offer, and you need a completely different structure than what we have today. My fear is that we now have so many intercommunal companies that we no longer have a local democracy, but that everything is moved into closed rapporteur's clubs that sit and negotiate between the municipalities. Then I want to take up the proposal that is distributed in the hall, from the left. It has the intention of getting better solutions through more freedom. The left is a liberal party. That means that we have faith in freedom, that's the driving force for finding the good solutions. Today, local democracy is regulated by between 4000 and 7,000 paragraphs and regulations. In addition, we have a very advanced income system – I think you need to look for a long time among councillors and rapporteurs, at least municipal government representatives, to find someone who has a line at all on what it becomes like. All this makes it enormously complicated, and makes us today get a local democracy that is increasingly reaching out to satisfy law paragraphs, not to find good solutions. That's why the Left wants to initiate a review of the whole law that organizes our local democracy, and hopefully clean up, clean up and make expectations much clearer. For today, the government is putting in a lot of measures that they don't finance, they're adding a lot more expectations that they don't finance. They don't even have the solutions to what they're really supposed to finance, because they haven't even defined that before they go in with, for example. homework or crisis centres. And I think that weakens our whole local democracy. Then it won't help if we boast that we've transferred a lot of money, if we've transferred even more problems. Finally, I would like to say that the Left wishes to vote in favour of proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 and proposal No. 13, and of course our own proposal, for which I hope more will also vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e709	The representative, Mrs. Trine Skei Grande, then referred to the proposal she referred to, and also expressed a second vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e714	Last year the left went to the elections for a large-scale municipal reform in connection with the Interaction Reform. I think two things were achieved. One is, of course, that you are derailing the entire debate on the cooperation reform, because instead of it being about service development, services and finding the right solutions, it became a purely structural debate. The second is that the election result to the left did not exactly show that it was necessarily a good grip. So my two questions are, simply: Point one, was this tricked, as the representative Skei Grande assesses it today? And point two, isn't it smarter to discuss the content of these services first, and then you better take the structural consequences afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e721	I think, so historically, that the left has words on it for not always choosing what is tricked, but what is right. I think that very many of the reforms that we are facing – and that we can get ‘a drag in the throat’ to make us do – actually turn out to be right over time. I think you can go to the history books and see that. So here too. Because it is not a derailment of the debate that we are actually discussing the structures to which we are going. If you are to be well managed in the health and care sector, you must have units that can afford to have the managers they need. You have to have someone to find out the smart solutions locally. Here you create an interaction reform with an order function that you do not have the competence to perform in the municipalities, you have to create an intermediary. And that's what I don't understand, because I think the Central Party and the Left have had a similar drive in local democracy for very many years, but this belief that closed rapporteur's clubs should take over local democracy with all possible coordination – I don't understand that the centre party can be that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e726	The representative Skei Grande used the term "rights foundationist" to refer to the Progress Party. If that means that we're engaged in the rights, the basic welfare services out in the municipalities, then I'm proud to be assigned that term. Because we are concerned about having some fundamental rights, guaranteed funding from the state, regardless of whether you live in a rich municipality or you live in a poor municipality. We are also convinced that this will mean less bureaucracy, and not more bureaucracy, as well as that individuals can know that they will have their needs met, financed by the state when they need it. My question to the representative Skei Grande is: Does the Left not see it as a problem that poor municipalities do not receive the services they receive in many rich municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e733	First I have to say that I'm happy and a little proud that I'm the one who gets lines from both political sides. I take that as a compliment – then the left is placed correctly. Let me subtract the lines from the debate we had yesterday, on ombudsman. It's actually the way in this society that we adopt a lot of rights. It should not be possible to be among those I pass when I go home from Stortinget in the evening – those who are lying out under the bridge at the railway square. We've adopted rights so it shouldn't apply. Then why does that happen? Because it happens! There's a lot of money in this system. There is a lot of money that is also spent on these, but they don't know what rights they have, no one is pressing through. When the disabled person's Joint Organisation had a telephone, the number was 60 pst. by the phones of parents with disabled children, none from people with mental disorders. A rights bureaucracy, to which the Progress Party puts forward, is about the strongest fighting through with their lawyers, and the weakest are still under the bridge on Greenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e740	I notice that the Left joins the two proposals on taxes, which are about increasing the importance of taxation for the funding of municipalities. It will increase the difference between the amount of money the municipalities have in relation to their needs. In particular, I think it is important to note that – in one way or another – the ideology behind the Left is some principle that it is important for municipalities to finance their incomes themselves and the sacred principle that half is a very correct and well-principled position. There is, as is known, no evidence that this will lead to more nutrient development or the kind of thing, despite the fact that very many have argued for this for a number of years. The consequence, however, is that the richest municipalities in the country, those with the highest incomes – Asker, Bærum, Austevoll, Hole municipality, where Olav Thon lives – will be much richer per capita because of wealth taxes, and it will take away from all the others. Is that justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e745	We think that tax is actually a means that can contribute to creating well-being in a completely different way than SV thinks. We believe that creating a business in a municipality is part of creating money for the community. Having politicians who facilitate it is actually helping to create more for the community. I hear that there is a bit of brother-in-law's research going on here, about which rapporteurs the representative of Holmås has met. But I wanted him to be able to attend an entire city board meeting in Oslo. Then he would have known how important it is for Oslo to stretch towards facilitating business. I believe that the vast majority of the rapporteurs are trying to do so. But with this system that the government has now added up, there's no point in doing that, you don't get anything back to do it. You should stimulate business, because it is a fundamental driving force for the creation of community in this society. It's about creating income for the community, but it's also about creating jobs, which also contribute to creating well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e750	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e753	It is an important debate that is going to the main hall today. Our municipalities provide 70 pst. the welfare services that all in this country rely on. Regardless of each cage and age you are in, almost every day you are in contact with the municipality and with the services provided by the municipality, whether it is within transport, kindergarten, school, health and care, or it relates to culture, etc. There's been a formidable job of providing these services from many, many thousands of people who don't always get used to it as well, but who are important in their place. Maybe we've just seen how important they are, how important it is that they are in their place and do their job. Local authorities are different and have different needs. Our country is inexhaustible, and therefore it is important that there is a local discussion in each municipality about how much one should use the frame for the various services one should provide. This is why the historically low earmarks that lie in the municipality for the next year are important. It strengthens local democracy, provides vitality in local debates, and therefore it is important that ear-marked means are now introduced into the overall framework. I record both a waiting and a critical attitude to the precisely childhood incarceration and the composition of the pediatric criteria. I'll come back to that. First, a small note that relates to the frame. There are also critical comments from the opposition. But let me remind you that demography should be covered not only within the free revenues, but also within fees, self-payments and earmarked revenues. It is important to be aware that at a time when the government has streamlined the economy, where we are going to have a tighter economic environment, this government prioritises local welfare. We also prioritise municipalities within a more strict financial framework. We look around us in Europe, and see the conditions in other countries, it becomes difficult to take seriously the grievances voiced from the opposition, and that relate to a framework that provides room for increased service provision as the population changes. I've been honest with you that the funds in free income are going to go on with a high level of activity. We've increased the financial envelope by 41 billion. kr the years in which this government has its seat. There are over 60,000 more added. There has been a huge job to increase activity, get more teachers, more care workers, etc. It notices people in their everyday lives. The growth will not be as high as it is in time, but we will continue a historical growth. We're not going to compare it to previous governments -- it can do it, it can do it, it can do it, it can do it. But it is clear that there has been a completely different rate of growth and vitality in the municipalities in recent years than it has been in the past. The income system is a complex matter. Making changes to the objective criteria that the government has now presented is complex and complex. We've updated a system from the 1990s, with basic material from the early 1990s, we've improved it, made it fairer, and it's more fair compared to variations in social costs, especially municipalities in Finnmark and Oslo municipalities – the last in relation to social costs. We've also made changes to the political elements, precisely because we've got a more fair and fine mask system in the objective criteria, gives room for it. It is important that people have confidence in this system, it is important that the criteria that are introduced cannot be affected by municipal decisions. For this reason, the number of children is the criterion, for example, the number of children receiving cash support, and that refers to the level of education — for this is a major difference between municipalities. That's why it's an objective criterion. The number of kindergartens can be influenced by the municipality's decisions and is therefore not a criterion used. The objective criteria are made up of changes in population and of changes in services, of course. They will rely on municipalities that have received more cost associated with demographic changes. It also shows up when we have 15 years of accumulated changes. Local authorities with higher numbers of older people, larger rates of mortality, with higher numbers absent, will increase their income. Municipalities with several inhabitants aged 16 to 66 — such as many in this room, which burden little on the municipal budget, but with tax revenues — have reduced their income according to objective criteria. The results that one sees will be within a zero sum game, some win and some lose. We have also made changes to the political element, precisely for that reason, in order to smooth out some of the major differences that came with the objective criteria. We've taken down the small municipality bill and the North Norway and Namdal bill. The big city bill is made, and it comes from the larger cities to meet, and it captures those who lose the most – 400 million. In addition, a tax component that is now 40 p.m. reduces the main reason for different possibilities for equivalent services, i.e. the tax component. It varies between 60 pst. and 260 pst., and it is important for us who are occupied with equivalent services — not equal, but equivalent — that we get a reduction in the tax component for that very reason. However, I have to remind you that 70 pst. of the free revenues actually are taxes in the system we have. We see that the opposition is shattering in today's debate and in the setting. Once again, the opposition does not coincide in important policy areas. One cannot read out of the debate today what policy a blue government would lead to in relation to the local government sector. The Progress Party criticises the framework, claims that it will not give room to resolve the needs of an ageing and growing population, and as a rule has much more money. The other opposition party then stays about at government level, but has critical remarks on other elements. In relation to the Right, I would say that the political memory is short. Quite rightly, there were no expectations relating to the Right’s municipal budget. Yet there was great disappointment every spring. It was a very low activity growth. Set up against the more than 60,000 more added in the last years, you can go in and see what expectations you would have if there was a new right-wing government – they wouldn't be big. So yes, which keeps expectations, the expectation of better well-being, the expectation of better services, the expectation of equivalency in municipal provision, as people expect when we have a red-green government. I'll give it to you. In relation to the left's distributed proposal today to set up a municipal law selection, I would like to welcome you to the left. On the basis of a diffi report I have received, which shows that, not only in the last five years, but also in the years before, there has been an increase in government leadership towards the municipal sector, I have announced on behalf of the government that next year, where we are just going to look at how the municipalities and the state are working together to solve the problem, and how the government is going to act in relation to the municipalities. It's an important job, it's a job we're going to spend time and energy on. But the work is already going on, and this is how I can only welcome you. So I hope that the Progress Party will never have multiples for its economic model for the municipalities. One doesn't say how to get the services covered in the 100 municipalities that will pass. One does not say how to satisfy the weakest needs. How the geography should be in such a model, they also say nothing about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e781	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e785	First, I would like to say that the weakest should be covered by government-led funding. The Minister of Local Affairs is concerned that transfers to the municipalities to the kindergartens are now to enter the framework and not to take place according to the activity, not according to the number of children in kindergartens, but based on the number of children living in the municipality, and also the level of education of the adult population in the municipality. This means that the children of a lawyer and a doctor will be more valuable in relation to government transfers to the municipalities than the children of e.g. a fish and a help care provider. What I want an answer from the Minister of State is why that's the case. Why should the children of those with higher education be worth more when it comes to transfers to the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e794	The sub-cost keys for kindergartens are the statistical models that best explain variations in expenditure between municipalities today. Variations in child care costs between municipalities, between real accounting results, are best explained in a model where educational attainment levels are included. The analyses show that education levels have a very robust impact on the demand for childcare services. There are professional arguments that should be the basis for the cost key, not allocation policy arguments. Therefore, this element is a robust criterion in the cost key for the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e799	I am now recording that there are statistical calculations that require that the children of a lawyer carry larger transfers to the municipality than the children of a fisherman. Now, some municipalities have been good at building up a good childcare facility. One has built up such a good childcare facility that some, because of the flexible pattern we have when it comes to professional participation and work etc., have placed their children in kindergarten in the neighbouring municipality. This will now create a problem for the municipality, which will not receive funding for the provision they provide to these children, and probably also in the long term will result in these parents not being able to deliver the children in kindergarten in the neighbouring municipality. Does the Council not see that this will create a problem both for the municipalities that have been nice and for the parents of these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e808	There is no doubt that the inclusion of kindergartens in the frame provides a fairer system than one has had with ear-marked devices. The municipalities that were late in building up have been paid very well for it, and those who were early out have received little of the ear-marked funds. When they're going to run the kindergartens – when we have full coverage, which we have today – it's clear that we have to go with criteria other than those. It would be wrong to say that the kids of a lawyer are worth more than the kids of a fisherman. It is simply about the general level of education. Where it's high, the demand for kindergartens is higher. So we're going to go through the cost keys every four years and not every fifteen years, which have our usual. Then you will see if you should mitigate or strengthen these criteria. But as long as there is a clear link between this, and there is a criterion that the municipality itself cannot influence by decision, it is an objective criterion that must be included. I support the professional recommendations and want this to have objectivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e815	I note that the Navarsete State Council again used its post on its favorite singer, namely to talk about history and other political parties, especially the opposition. There were very few visions. There was very little about your own policy. It was most a historical review — and erroneously so — of how the stand was under the Bondevik II government. The growth force in the municipalities was greatest in 2005, when Erna Solberg was still the municipal minister. And then it would have taken two to three years to clear up after the miserable situation that was after Stoltenberg I. That's also a storyteller, and I think it's at least as right as the Navar seat adds up to. So the question is, how much time and energy will the Council of State spend on giving municipalities greater freedom of action? She talks about it, but we haven't seen one thing yet in Stortinget that indicates that it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e824	I think that the representative from the Right should equip himself with some sort of stopwatch and look at how long a user spends on what. I had one sentence -- maybe there were two -- where I referred to the previous government. Everything else was about a new system, we've both had the courage and the will to go through an obsolete system and put it forward. And it's not directly simple, it's complex. I am very happy that we have submitted it, and for the reception the system has received in the municipalities. Not least, I am glad that we have received a much greater share of free money, which is one example of increased local freedom of action, both for a larger part of the framework and for us to increase the framework year by year, in line with demography and the ability of the municipalities to strengthen their services. This government has done so every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e829	I know that when the Right People speak, the Council of State does not listen. That's why I need more to find a neutral party that can comment on government policy. The Council of State has been a member of the County Council of Sogn and Fjordane for many years. There they have a councillor named Jan Øhlckers, who writes the following in the Annual Report for Sogn and Fjordane County: ‘It is surprising that several departments and directorates, through letters of expectations, put detailed guidance on how the county council will solve the new tasks. Of course, we should follow the agreed national policy guidelines, but the sum of all the expectations that are now coming does not correspond in any way to the resources that we have at our disposal.’ Does the Council of State feel this is the case? Does she feel that the councillor in Sogn and Fjordane is on the wrong track, or is there a truth in this with which she intends to do something, and not just talk about?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e841	I've referred to a report from Divi from the pulpit that addresses that particular issue. It is not random that it has been ordered. It is not by chance that one has gone through the number of leaders of the state and the municipality – during the reign of the Right and during the reign of this government. Unfortunately, we have to report that regardless of the colour of the government, the number of government leaders is increasing, especially from the directorate and other agencies that are out-of-office. That is why I have sent a big message next year, where we will go through this. I don't do that to play politics, I do it because I think it's an important area to go on, to really ensure local self-government. I hope for a good cooperation, with input from the Right both locally and centrally, a good cooperation with KS, as the municipal representative, and an open debate on how the relationship between the state and the municipality will be over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e848	As regards the financial arrangement for 2011, the government proposes that between 2.5 billion and 3 billion. kr shall be provided as free income. The sum is what it takes to cover the additional expenditure in the municipal sector related to democratic development, plus that 400 million. kr is used as a discretionary resource. Nevertheless, the government – the Council of State has also said so – believes that the scheme for the next year will allow for the continued expansion of municipal services. But since neither this government has been able to invent a magic formula that creates growth just because it is said, the reality is that to expect growth in the municipal sector, municipalities must continue to draw the famous credit card. Does the Council agree with this description of reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e853	No, it's not the Council of States. Governments and governments have said that within the overall framework, which will be between 4 and 5 billion. kr, there will be room for growth in service provision. The overall framework will be defined in the budget of the autumn. Within the free resources one can – I have been very clear to the local government sector – continue a high level of activity. It has been a difficult growth in the financial framework when it comes to free money – 20 billion. kr in free money, 41 br. Total kr. There have been over 60,000 more added. It has been a difficult growth in the municipal sector, and it must help us to continue. But we've said that growth is getting smaller, there's going to be a tighter economic environment. But even within the tighter economic framework, this government prioritises local welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e864	For the red-green government, a strong and healthy municipal economy is a prerequisite for a good welfare offer throughout the country. The aim is to strengthen the free income of the municipal sector during the ageing period, so that the provision of child protection, school and care and care can be even better. The municipalities of this long-term country have different assumptions about providing an equivalent service provision. The two main explanations of the differences in service provision between municipalities are the differences in income and the differences in the cost of providing the service. The municipal income system aims to mitigate these differences, both by balancing differences in income and by balancing costs between municipalities. This is an important contribution to ensuring equal living conditions and giving everyone a real opportunity to live where they want to. The aim is to fully compensate for the differences in involuntary costs between municipalities, both factors that affect demand and factors that make the production of services more expensive. The basis for today's cost-balancing takes place from the mid-1990s and is mainly based on the so-called Rattsø range. Since the mid-1990s, both age and living conditions have changed. There have also been major changes in the housing pattern. During the entire period, centralisation has taken place at the same time as population growth for the country as a whole. The increase in the population has been higher than the population of the municipalities initially. The government’s proposals for cost keys are based on the broad review of the income system by the Borge Committee. And together with up-to-date analyses and models, as well as a better data base, the new proposal for a cost key for municipalities will be better than today's key captures the actual differences in demand and costs of providing welfare services. In short, the map can be adapted to the terrain and we get a fairer and fairer distribution between the municipalities of the country. For the future, it will be wise, as the Council of State also pointed out, to update the system more regularly, so that the redistribution effects of revision are not excessive. We therefore support the government's proposal to update the cost keys approx. every four years. And then there is a basis for stressing that there are professional assessments and analyses that will lead to the revision of the cost-balancing, not political priorities, just as we do this year. Due to the fact that injustices and imbalances in cost-balancing are now being corrected, it also provides a basis for looking at income-balancing and the political elements of the income system. The revision of cost-balancing results in relatively strong redistribution effects, and despite a better system, there is a need to correct some of the strong effects. For example, the largest cities have special challenges. As these problems are linked to a very small group of municipalities, it is difficult to capture the challenges in a cost key. This is why it is proposed, inter alia: a political effort to introduce its own major urban grant covering the four largest cities, Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. There are considerable differences between the tax income of municipalities in Norway. While Bærum got NOK 34 500 per person. In 2009, the municipality of Ballangen in the Nordic region had only NOK 14 000 per capita. the population. Large differences in income result in large differences in the quality and extent of school provision, in care for the elderly and in the provision of care. Therefore, a reduction in the tax share of municipal income, so that a greater proportion of revenue is provided through the framework grant, will help to reduce the disparities between municipalities. Therefore, the government proposes to reduce the tax share of municipal income. This is also in line with the value of the Workers' Party's position, that the one with the strongest back should also bear the largest stock. We want a society where there is access to equivalent welfare services, regardless of whether you live in Bærum or in a municipality in Northern Ireland. Conversion is demanding and difficult, but must happen all the time, also in Kommune-Norway. Overall, the redistribution effects of the revision of the income system for municipalities are relatively large, not least because of 5.8 billion. kr which is currently granted by discretionary grants to kindergartens shall enter into an ordinary financing scheme where there are objective and fair criteria on the basis of which they are based. In order to mitigate the effects in the municipalities with the highest negative impact, a partial loss compensation has been proposed for all municipalities that lose more than NOK 100 per municipality. incorporates the proposed changes in the income system. The audit and updating of the income system has been a major and important work. It provides a fairer system, where all municipalities are given the same prerequisites for providing good welfare services to their inhabitants. And if we end up in the middle of the range that's suggested for the municipal economy next year, all municipalities will also get more income per capita.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e885	I wonder if someone can show me where I find a shiny old age care. I can't find it in Kommune-Noreg. Despite the great promise made by this pulpit, by those who have run this country through generations, a lot of misery is seen, not only in the care of the elderly, but also in many other groups that in the municipalities need help and support. Now, municipalities face a major challenge, namely, an ageing wave. It will mean that everyone will have a smaller offer, if there is now no intervention to strengthen the municipalities. The aftermath in Municipality-Noreg is only getting bigger and bigger. We in the Progress Party have seen through our alternative state budget, and now in the revised, that we want to spend more money on the municipalities than the government. A few years ago, we had the psychiatry lift, with earmarks of funds for strengthening the psychiatry in the municipalities. This resulted in good results. Now we see what happens when these funds have gone into the framework transfers to the municipalities. Now the municipalities of psychiatry are cutting. We in the Progress Party will have a state funding scheme of the municipalities’ core tasks. It's in our opinion the only thing that will work. We have an example of that through psychiatry, and we also want to see it now when the ear-marked resources of the nursery become part of the frame. I am convinced that, in the future, there will be a poorer childcare facility around the country. Over time, the municipalities have been humiliated by expensive reforms. Everyone thinks of the administration reform, which was a giant belly pad for the red-green government. Compromise causes great difficulties for the county councils. I would also like to refer to the councillor in Sogn and Fjordane, who in a brilliant way pointed out the weakness of the difficulties of reform. The councillor wrote the following in the Annual Report for Sogn and Fjordane County: ‘It is surprising that several departments and directorates, through letters of expectations, put detailed guidance on how the county council will solve the new tasks. Of course, we should follow the agreed guidelines, but the sum of all the expectations that are now coming does not correspond in any way to the resources that we have to consult." Group leaders in the Workers' Party and vice-presidents in Sogn and Fjordane County Municipality, Åshild Kjelsnes, had to admit in June that the sitting government and former governments have never been able to fulfill their promises to complete their major reforms. When we see in my county, Sogn and Fjordane, there is a commitment to a prestigious project such as the construction of Dalsfjordbrua, which was part of and drove forward when she was appointed as a county representative, it goes beyond what is the greatest task of the county councils now, simply to maintain what one has received in gifts from the state: well 17 000 km of bad road. That gift was in such a wretched constitution that it is a shame that the great majority must take responsibility for it. I fear that the forthcoming cooperation reform will move in the same direction as we have now seen when it comes to the administrative reform, quite apart from a total disaster. When I use such strong words, it is, as I pointed out in the introduction, because the municipalities are not in a position to manage such a comprehensive reform. I am also critical of whether we have a municipal structure that will be able to manage such a comprehensive reform. I see that here are named different models in the form of inter-municipal cooperation to solve difficult tasks the reform will entail. I'm against inter-municipal cooperation, and I'm very surprised that those who speak hot for democracy are in favour of stimulating inter-municipal cooperation. In my many years as a local politician, I have seen how undemocratic intercommunal cooperation can be. Here the decisions will be taken by a few politicians in closed rooms. That's not how I want it. In such important processes dealing with people’s health and care requirements, it is up to politicians to decide that decisions are taken in full openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e914	In a year's time, we'll have a new choice, a municipal choice. The election night, experts will interview each other about why the vote was so low, and why it was not so easy to get people on the list. And then maybe a sample is put down to look at it, and then the department hires PR experts, who next time are going to make sure that the voters are reminded of how important it is that they vote. This case we're dealing with today, the community proposition, is actually a matter that in many contexts is going to determine whether people think it's right to use their leisure time to participate in local democracy. This is where we put the framework for whether it's meaningful to talk about local self-government. I can't see that the proposition gives a handshake to the local self-government. It does not provide room for action for rational and efficient operation. Some people are pleased – and I am among them – that there is a proper development when the number of earmarked grants goes down, but it does not help if the so-called free funds are verbally bound up by promises made by national politicians, which every day are derived from new state standards, guidelines, regulations and directives. The most effective way to undermine local self-government is to adopt laws that provide third parties, i.e. the public, with legal requirements to obtain benefits across any priority that may have taken place locally. This does not mean, of course, that there is no sympathy for the services provided by these rights, but it simply coincides with municipal autonomy. The Governments referred to the proposition, inter alia: as follows: We give priority to local welfare. After my performances, it would have been even better if it had been a local municipal government that could say that it had prioritised local welfare. In fact, if you want to influence a municipality, it is natural that you get involved locally, and you can be elected to the local local government. It may also be a year when it may be right to give priority to tasks other than care. It may be that we need to solve some climate problems, invest in a district heating plant, to help make the municipality CO2 neutral. Moreover, we know that the municipalities are not the ones that put the welfare tasks at the bottom when they are first given the opportunity to prioritise. Local politicians are striking the population at eye level, and well-being is an important issue. So I believe that the government could also be much more bold to go ahead and change the rules, so that we could reintroduce local self-government. There is something tame and passive about the government's attitude towards the municipal sector. It's like you've stagnated in your vision of being able to do it better or especially differently than today. Too many resources are still being tied up in administrative duplication. We have a county municipality that has never functioned democratically, which has never sat in the public's consciousness as a real political level, and we have too many municipalities, each of them running double-treatment and double-administration, where they could have served to merge. We even have a grant scheme that makes inappropriate units actually have an incentive to continue unchanged. We also see that the government does the same for tax revenue. One is almost tempted to believe that one wants not only the population on the client list but also the municipalities. Nor is there an offensive in the case of sick leave in the public sector. The discussion we had in the winter of sick leave is grounded after the government didn't even dare follow the advice of its own expert committee. There are still many resources that are tied up in the municipalities by losing between 12 and 13 working days in the municipality. What we need now is a task reform, a clearer division between state responsibility and municipal responsibility, so that the citizens of a municipality know who they should hold responsible and which politicians they should choose or not re-elect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e934	It's in the municipalities people live, that's where it's supposed to live its life. The Labour Party wants you to have the same opportunities for a good life, regardless of which municipality you live in. And the 2009 population survey shows that close to 90 pst. of the inhabitants are satisfied to live and live in their municipality. At different stages of life, you will need different help and support from your community and municipality. The government has had a strong focus on combating violence in close relations through the previous period of growth and beyond in this period. You may find yourself in a situation where you need to contact the crisis centre. The law on municipal emergency services was adopted in the Stortinget in June 2009 and entered into force on 1 January 2010. Municipalities have had some time to prepare to take over the responsibility for providing the crisis centre offer, but there is a concern about funding existing crisis centres. I am pleased that the Workers' Party in the Municipal Proposition asks the government to follow closely the situation in the crisis centres. So some comments on the view Right on Stortinget and Right on the City Council in Bergen have on the municipal bill 2010. With figures and statistics from the early 1990s, it is absolutely necessary to update them in order to have a fair and correct transmission system for municipalities. This professional update is negative for Bergen, in line with many other municipalities. The mountain is by no means in a special position. But the government did not want as much loss in Bergen as the technical evaluations did. Therefore, the government took several political steps that are in favour of Bergen. Despite the fact that the red-green government mitigates the consequences for Bergen, Højre's mayor continues to attack the government. One of the most important requirements of Bergen has been a major urban grant. Now the government delivers a big city grant, and still complains to city councillor Monica Mæland. The city grant to Bergen next year is 80 million. kr. The mayor wants less focus on the district municipalities. Now the small municipal grant is reduced by 1 million. kr per municipality and the North Norway grant is reduced by 10 pst. Both of these changes are in favour of Bergen. The mayor further claims that Bergen comes out worse than Oslo in the municipal system. That's wrong. While Oslo contributed 2 700 million to the tax equalisation in 2009. kr, contributed Bergen with 266 million. kr. The mountains thus retain more of their own tax income than Oslo. Oslo thus pays ten times as much into the tax equalization pot as Bergen. Stavanger contributed 570 million. kr, more than twice as much as Bergen, despite the fact that Stavanger has half as many inhabitants as Bergen. Do the representatives from the Right stand behind their party colleague Mæland's view that this is in Bergen's disfavor? The reason Bergen has lower income per capita than Oslo is that Bergen has lower tax income, despite Oslo retaining less of its own tax income than Bergen. In 2010, Bergen received a national grant of NOK 8 825 per capita. Oslo received a comparison of NOK 6 480 per capita, i.e. a difference in Bergen's favour of over NOK 2000 per capita. What separates Oslo and Bergen is that Bergen has lower tax revenues than Oslo. Now Oslo gets NOK 238 more, Bergen gets NOK 193 less. The difference is still almost NOK 2000 per capita in Bergen's favour. What remains to be known is whether right-wing policymakers disagree with the professional analyses that underpin the changes in the municipality's 2010 proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e957	The President should perhaps have made the previous speaker aware that the President of the City Council in Bergen does not have the opportunity to take part in the debate here today. But I'm going to talk about something completely different, or really not, because the town councillor in Bergen probably shares many that the same challenges as city councillors other places and rapporteurs and councillors experience on a regular basis, about. every four years, i.e. when red-green population representatives and government members travel around the country and beach in the Kingdom, and on behalf of all these municipalities just promise elderly care that shines, better primary schools, better child protection and all these things that we recognize from the repeat button every four years. The problem is obvious: in reality, the state has relatively little opportunity to make the major changes within the budgets of each municipality. So it becomes very demanding for many local politicians around to experience national politicians who are legislating on their behalf, while not filling up the wallet and enabling the same municipalities to deliver exactly the services that national politicians promise on their behalf. Of course, it's because we have an income system that should eventually be antiquarian. We've been a little bit involved in the debate earlier today. The Progress Party is being attacked because we want need-driven funding, that is, that there is the need for a sick home place to release money from the state, and not, as today, a reasonably intelligent bureaucratic, complicated system that evil tongues have supposedly claimed is so ingenious and complicated that besides one person in the Ministry of Local Affairs, only the Spring Lord has the full overview of the system. Then you say, at the top of it all, that the Progress Party should like to introduce a bureaucratic system. It's completely incomprehensible. It's very difficult to imagine how you can have imagination at all dreaming of a system of income that's more bureaucratic than what you actually have today with transfers to the municipalities. Through their cost keys, income balancing, cost balancing, grant schemes and in addition earmarked funds, this is very incomprehensible. It also has unforeseen consequences when making changes to this system, such as us. was made visible in the debate today, that some changes to the cost key can suddenly turn out and ensure that the power municipalities become the major winners of the income system. So it's very hard to understand that you can blame the Progress Party, which is in favour of a simple, straightforward, transparent and easy-to-understand system of paying out money based on the need for nursing homes and schools, to be bureaucratic, when you've already come up with some of the most imaginable system you can imagine. The second argument used against the Progress Party when discussing need-driven financing is that it is so undemocratic – it is just as undemocratic that the Storting should actually enable the municipalities to deliver an elderly care that shines, which is not possible within today's system. It's like undemocratic. It's completely incomprehensible to me. What one then defends, and what then obviously is the democratic right of the representative Holmås and others are really very concerned about, is the democratic right of the individual municipality to provide poor care for the elderly, to deliver an elderly care that is under pariah, which is out of proportion to the rights you should have in a well-developed society like the Norwegian. So that's a good idea. When you have a system that you've been working on for decades since the mid-1980s, and you've always seen bad consequences, you're allowed to sit at the drawing board, draw some consequences and introduce a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e970	The proposal for the government consultation note on a new funding system for non-municipal kindergartens in a framework-funded sector that is now out of consultation does not support the objective of real equal treatment of kindergartens. In particular, the right is concerned about proposals for regulations dealing with conditions in which kindergartens cease to exist and where the municipality may require values built up by government grants and the parental benefit to be re-established. Such a proposal radically changes the assumptions of today's kindergartens. There is considerable uncertainty about the framework conditions for private kindergartens, and it also makes it more difficult to start up private kindergartens. It appears very unreasonable to change the rules so fundamentally for those actors who have invested in building up equity in their companies. The proposal will have a negative impact on the whole sector and will affect all types of kindergartens, from ideal foundations to commercial actors. The right is strongly opposed to private owners losing the ownership of their building and property on termination or sale. We are because ownership is important to the Right. I think many voters also believe that ownership is important to the Center Party. They can now ignore that completely, because this is where the Center Party is going to fail completely. The proposal will lead to fewer private actors, the erosion of diversity in the kindergarten sector and the harmonisation of childcare facilities, where municipal kindergartens could be the only alternative. This will have major consequences for parents, and it will affect the quality of the provision to children. It is considered essential to the right for children, parents, employees and owners that the operation of kindergartens is effective and that the values in kindergartens are kept in the best possible way. It will ensure development, diversity, quality and continued great satisfaction with kindergartens. The proposal for a funding system for non-municipal kindergartens in a framework-funded sector would deprive parents of the possibility to choose between different offers and different owners. I'm not getting this all the way to vote, because it's the private kindergartens that have the greatest satisfaction in user studies, and it's the ones that deliver the best services at the lowest price. But you might not have to be a rocket scientist to figure out what the government, and especially the Socialist Left Party, is looking forward to regarding this proposal. On page 29 of the hearing note: ‘The proposal may bring about structural changes in the long-term by reducing the interest of the provisions in establishing new non-municipal kindergartens and, where appropriate, the need for municipalities to set up kindergartens.’ I understand that the Socialist Left Party is doing this, for their ideological struggle to remove what is found by private actors, the Socialist Left Party is honest on. But that the Workers' Party and the Center's party are incomprehensible in this way by SV. It is quite incomprehensible that the Centre Party can agree to remove the kindergartens that very many women entrepreneurs started 20 years ago around the district of Norway, and that they can agree that women's workplaces around the district of Norway will be lost because of SV's ideological warfare against everything that is private. The right is concerned with continuing to take care of private kindergartens and ensure healthy development. We are also very positive about the diversity that private kindergartens offer. We fear that major changes in the exit rules will reduce the take-up of new private kindergartens, which the Ministry also points to as a long-term development, if the proposed regulations are incorporated. The right does not see the need to introduce regulations on the withdrawal of values from kindergarten. We believe it is absolutely essential that regulations and laws ensure equal treatment in full, but unfortunately what is now in the government's proposal is the opposite. The right, therefore, wants the government to clarify this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1003	This year, the Municipal and Administrative Committee has been on several trips to which municipal structures have been the subject. When we visited Sogn and Fjordane, we met many rapporteurs who pointed out that cooperation between the county's many municipalities has become unclear. Several have expressed concern that the conglomerate of intercommunal companies and other cooperation models is now outside the control of local government. The 18-year-old KrFU Tore Storehaug made a strong impression when he briefed the committee on an opinion from Fylkingsting for youth where they concluded that "the time has come to transform the municipal structure into larger and more powerful municipalities". In today’s Evening Post, Sigrun Vågeng from KS says that the municipal merger is on the agenda throughout the country. At the same time, she points to the problems that arise when municipalities move large parts of their business into companies without sufficient control. The government will use the whole country. A good offer within basic services such as kindergarten, child protection, school, local health care and care for the elderly and caregivers is essential both for the quality of life of the individual, for people to live where they want to live, and for the confidence of the welfare state. The important role of the municipal sector as a foundation for the Norwegian welfare community is widely recognised. Municipalities and county councils are also important arenas for popular government and local democracy. At the same time, it is clear that the challenges in Utsira with 214 inhabitants and Oslo with nearly 600 000 are different. It is important for the government that people have influence in the municipality in which they live, and that the community merges because the inhabitants see that it will give a better offer and make the municipality a better municipality to live in. A historical municipal structure has no intrinsic value. Municipal boundaries must go where appropriate and appropriate for the citizens. The Citizen Committee pointed to several elements of the municipal income system that stand in the way of a more appropriate municipal structure. A broad majority of the Committee agrees on this point. Elements of the income system may contribute to sementing an inappropriate municipal structure because in the short term it may appear unprofitable to merge municipalities. The majority emphasises that there should be real voluntaryness associated with the choice to remain a separate municipality or start a merger process. Today, the level of the disaggregation grant remains the same for 10 years. The majority are asked by the government to consider extending this period to 15 years, and will return to this issue later in the ageing period. The fact that Oslo is one of the winners of the proposed changes in the municipal income system has been a bit of a blow to the chest. With more accurate cost keys, Oslo's living conditions challenges are better captured. The inclusion of the nursery allowance is also important for Oslo. At the same time, the capital grant shall be abolished. This grant has previously compensated Oslo for the local authority's taking national responsibility in some areas. This applies from foreign state visits to drug treatment, where 50 pst. by all those treated in Oslo have a different municipality of authors. Now the capital grant is replaced by a city grant to the country's four largest cities. Oslo also loses its share of tax. Unfortunately, it is part of the spinal reflexes of some to make themselves disguised, and attack Oslo. In this case, there is little reason to do so. The new income system implies that Oslo shares more of its tax revenue than ever with the rest of the country. The city is treated in the same way as the rest of the country's major cities, and the political grip that has been taken reduces what Oslo's citizens would have recovered, if purely objective criteria were used. Still, Oslo is making the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1020	It's about one year a day, since we talked about the municipality proposition for 2010. My theme in the debate one year ago was the administrative reform introduced from 1 January this year. I remember what the administrative reform contains: a sad remnant of a fortunately stranded regional reform, the downgrading of over 17 000 km of highways through transfer to the county municipalities, and the transfer of 78 out of 95 national ferry sections from the state to the county municipalities. These roads then had a maintenance run of 12 billion. kr. The government used the principle: out of sight, out of mind – let a few other problems. The important issue related to the administrative reform is the following: Does this improve roads in Norway? Does this provide better ferry services? The party of progress was convinced a year ago that the answer was a loud and clear no, and we are still convinced of it. The Minister of Local Affairs in 2009, who is Minister of Transport in 2010, mentioned the administrative reform with half a sentence in his main post one year ago. Politically, she is now letting go of her concern. The previous Minister for Transport has taken over the problem routes as Minister for Municipal Affairs. Bad roads won't be better if responsibility is shifted. Bad roads do not improve at all when it is not accompanied by money, which can ensure adequate standards as part of the transfer project. In the transport committee, where I myself am sitting, we are in the process of inspecting all the counties of the country. We've been to Hordaland, Akershus, Eastfold, Finnmark and Troms. Eastfold has a 1 billion lag. SEK, Finnmark worth over 700 million. kr and Troms of more than 900 mill. kr. The impressions and information are the same: road maintenance delays are high, and, of course, increased sharply at the turn of the year. The answer is the same for questions about how and when to cover this, if any: it cannot be given – not regional road authorities and not county politicians who have been responsible for poorer roads. Even when the state’s contributions to free income are used, and even when the county authorities use the loan scheme to borrow money to repair the country’s old roads, the administrative reform does not provide better paths in the foreseeable future. So the answer is obviously the same as the Progress Party said last year: the roads don't get better with the government's procuratorial bill. Significantly more money is needed over many years if we are to improve road standards on the new county road network. Evolution is going in the wrong direction in many places. Road capital is getting confused. Bad roads provide worse conditions for housing, for transport and for value creation. One of many paradoxes is that bad highways have become better roads, but not with repairs. They're getting better at highways because they're being assessed differently than when they were highways. The requirements are lower and different. This is all about the road-politic trick that the reform of the administration involves, saying that a bad path without laying one centimeter of asphalt and without using a single penny of administrative tricks can appear to be a better way. We notice that the state will now guard against adverse consequences. The State, which has not clearly maintained itself, is now concerned that the counties will get the knife on the throat. Regulations, currently only applicable to tunnels and bridges, are to be used, but permanent and complete national guides are also to be used. The regulations and instructions do little to help with the maturities. It is only money for operation and maintenance that helps and can prevent the road network in Norway from continuing to weather. There is nothing in the municipality proposal for 2011 that suggests that the county road network should improve. In this area, too, in the transport sector, progress party policies are needed to ensure good roads. Local initiatives without money have a bad and worrying tendency to become initiatives that allow for self-payment through tolls. There is more transport tax and a poor solution for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1050	I'm going to start with the obvious: ‘A strong and healthy municipal economy is a prerequisite for a good welfare offer throughout the country.’ It's the opening replication of this year's municipal proposition, and as in all good reports, it's the line that sets the tone for the rest of history. And this year's municipal bill is a good story. It is the fifth chapter of a series of tensions about how to spin, from starvation to re-given in Kommune-Norway. In that perspective, it was a little bit strange to hear from the right here earlier today that it is the councillor Navarsete who is the greedy towards the municipalities. I don't really get to rhyme with the previous chapters of the series before the series we're in now. But the municipal bill is also about fair distribution of tax revenue. We probably never quite agree on exactly what it means, but if we, like the government, assume that all the inhabitants of a country have the same demands for good welfare services, it is therefore a question of redistribution from tax-based to tax-impaired municipalities – stronger now than under the previous government. The municipalities have experienced historical growth in the free incomes of this government, and the growth continues. But the city's operating space does not depend only on the state alone. It's getting too passive. Municipalities can and must create their own space of action through the development of their own communities, internal transformations and the development of service provision in line with changing needs. Despite their own efforts, there are some municipalities that experience greater delocalisation than relocation, negative birth rates over longer periods of time and increasing difficulties in keeping the level of service up. Again, there are opportunities for the applicant for services. Municipalities can achieve a great deal by cooperating across municipal borders, cooperating regionally and across public levels, and not least across borders between the public and private sectors. On the one hand, it is about creating attractive communities where people want to live and on the other about local and regional economic development. In this way, it is also possible to contribute to own growth and progress. If further measures are still needed to ensure the population base, there is now a small tip from this: What about housing some of the 7,500 who are in reception waiting for a municipality that wants them? Some municipalities have already seen this point. Other municipalities should definitely think about it. As the representative Magnusson Lydvo pointed out, it's about 90 pst. satisfied with the municipality in which they live. Seven out of ten people are satisfied with the services. The inhabitants of small municipalities are actually the ones that are most satisfied. That study is the best evidence that Norwegian municipalities are still able to take responsibility for our welfare services. It's not like the Progress Party says, that most of it's razed. But then, of course, there are improvement points in many areas, and one of the most serious signals in that study is that 58 pst. believes that the public is wasting its resources. Of course, we have to take that seriously and go in the seams. At the same time, we know that our municipalities are going to have new challenges. It is enough to mention the three key elements of proper treatment, in the right place, at the right time, and everyone understands what we are talking about, namely the cooperation reform – primarily a community health reform that will make major demands on the ability to convert and cooperate in Norwegian municipalities. Even after the election to next year, this must be incorporated into the municipal planning strategy, which is required by new planning and building laws. I think then that the 138 municipalities that have invested in the Quality Municipality project, in cooperation between employees, administrative and political management and users, will probably be much better equipped to meet the kind of challenges that municipalities, such as: has chosen to invest in more privatisation of services. There is also an ideological distinction between the majority and minority parties. The majority, which here also includes the Right and Christian People's Party, have noticed the positive results of the Quality Community project. The Progress Party has chosen to give up – not unexpectedly, because we remember the Progress Party's recipe for meeting the financial crisis. It was more tax-free and further privatisation of public services, so not unexpectedly they are also in this case, as in very many other cases, isolated – the Progress Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other. All the others want to signal support to the municipal minister when she clearly signals that she will continue to cooperate in the Quality Municipality project, for the benefit of its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1066	The municipal bill for 2011 shows that, through the financial framework for the municipal sector next year, the government continues to facilitate the further development of welfare services locally. At a time when the countries around us are using axes on their public budgets and cuts in the welfare offer to their inhabitants, the red-green government is increasing the total income of the municipal sector by 4 to 5 billion. kr. It comes to the top of the promises made between 2006 and 2010. Although a broad consensus on the framework for the municipal sector is announced in the setting of the municipal bill, Højre's leader, Erna Solberg, comes with more recognizable Right-tones in Specter's magazine, Aspects, earlier this year. She says: ‘We must start by slowing down the growth of welfare goods and the growth of public sector employees.’ Such statements are more appropriate to the hunger feeding that the municipalities experienced when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. There is a bit of a contrast to the right-hand side of the debate here today, which seems to be a little short of money for the local government sector. If the Right regains power and influence in the future, we can conclude from the party leader's statements that tax cuts are still more important for the Right than money for kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly in the municipalities. I haven't met any local politicians who want to get back to such a Right Policy, and it includes Right's own local politicians who I've met on my way. In the setting, there are considerable differences between the red-green parts on one side and the Right and Advance parts on the other side. Where the Progress Party wants state and bureaucratic price financing, which will hit the districts particularly hard, the Labour Party believes that welfare services are best developed locally. Where the Right will take money from tax-weak municipalities and distribute it to the tax-rich municipalities, the Workers' Party believes that there is a need for redistribution. I would like to stress that the Workers' Group has endorsed the changes in the cost keys with that very starting point. The alternatives of the right-hand side will, in total, lead to greater differences between municipalities and thus to greater differences in the welfare provision of the population and of individuals. There is a policy there is reason to warn against. In the last few years, municipalities have carried out an almost child care revolution. 47,000 more children have been placed in kindergarten in the last four years. This is good for the children, who are given the opportunity to be in safe and good kindergartens with other children. But it is also good for society, for the Norwegian economy and for Norwegian work. With the children safely located in the nursery, parents with their knowledge and labour can participate in the working life. Investment in kindergartens is therefore a good investment for the Norwegian economy. In addition, municipalities have provided several thousand new annual shifts in the care services. The target of the last government period, 10,000 new annual care services, was over-achieved. Lifts were held. Now we're going to set new goals, and by 2015 we're going to work day and night to ensure full health care coverage, or offer a day care home to those who need it. Over the last few years, the government has set up billions of dollars for municipalities – which in turn have followed up with over 35,000 more annual works, which have provided better welfare services across the country. There's reason to praise the municipalities for the job they've done. At the same time, it is important to say that neither in 2010 nor 2011, the service provision will be perfect or without gaps around the country's municipalities. That's why we're granting new billions to the municipalities, so that they can further expand the welfare offer to the inhabitants. But there is also reason to raise our eyes and look at the hierarchies of the financial crisis in Europe. While Norway used new billions in the municipal sector to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis, other European countries need to cut off their welfare services. Norway had a good effect on its response to the financial crisis, because we said no to tax cuts and yes to money to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1093	The municipalities have a special position in Norway to ensure that the fundamental rights of society are actually fulfilled. If we do not have a stable, predictable and adequate framework that ensures that we can carry out the tasks we are going to do jointly and that are added to the municipal sector, the citizens will not have their rights fulfilled. From the point of view of a municipal politician, there may never be such a great deal of transfers that all the political visions you have when entering a local government in Norway are fulfilled. That's good, and that's right. You have to have ambitions to develop society further. But from the red-green government, the local economy is a priority, it is strongly strengthened both in the previous period, and it continues in this period – so the contrast to the previous government is very sharp. It's a conscious choice. Trust is given to local elected representatives, and it is recognised that the critical tasks and functions of society lie at the heart of the local community. A robust local economy is important in order to achieve the ambitions we have about security and security for everyone. Children shall be able to grow up in good and safe surroundings, where they will develop their abilities fully. Parents must experience a safe old age. We have increased the local economy to enable our local politicians to give priority to the living conditions of children. It's about kindergartens and a good school where students get to use their knowledge, it's about child protection that has resources, and not least skills enough, to help children and families who need help — early, before the problems get big and unmanageable. The trust that our local elected representatives make good priorities locally for the benefit of the citizens of their municipalities, with knowledge of their municipality, is the basis for maintaining most of the transfers within the free framework. It's essential that they're free, so we have the local possibilities. If we're to succeed in our tasks as elected representatives, it's a good school, of high quality, the basis for the building of society in the future. The prioritisation of literacy is one of the most important tasks. The ability of municipalities to provide basic services is what prevents social disparities in the country. We know that lack of reading skills gives people problems that they have with them all their life. We have had a change in the income system, and now a change in the cost keys for the municipalities, to ensure that the resources we have are allocated in relation to the tasks we have now added to the municipal level. Fortunately, our country is in constant change. This must be followed up by adjustments, both on the income side and in the cost coverage. Here in the house we tend to work with our areas, but fortunately we work with the whole political image, all the time. As members of the Labour and Social Committee, we work daily on the challenges of unemployment, disability, low income and social disparities in society. If we are to succeed in the tasks of our committee, we depend on the municipal level to have a sufficient framework. After all, in the municipalities the children have learned to read and write, and it is in the municipalities that preventive health work is carried out. This is where the early efforts are carried out. Prevention is socio-economic, but not least human, important and correct. We have to do this work where people live, and it's in our own municipalities. Strong and predictable local economy is a win-win situation. It's about the fact that it's good for individuals, good for business and good for society. If we're going to be able to do something about the other big budgets we're dealing with in this room, we need to make sure that the municipal economy is stable and robust.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1115	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1118	'Commune' is actually a pretty blatant word. 'Community' is better, I think, because that's what it means. The energy of the debate on the municipal economy shows that municipalities mean a lot to people, and that there are committed politicians who rule in the municipalities. It's important for each of us how we set up our local economy. I am therefore pleased that this and the previous government have given the municipalities significant financial boost. In the election campaign, the Right in West Agder was out with promises for new roads. But when it came to municipal economics, this was one of the areas in which the Right said they could not promise to increase. The Progress Party’s ‘repeat’ button is that they will have government arrangements in most of the policy areas that entail expenditure, such as follow-up of drug addicts, care for the elderly and social assistance. On the other hand, no one gets more criticism of the Progress Party than government agencies. They don't work well enough, they're too bureaucratic – and they seem to be one of the main enemies of the Progress Party. In its annual budgets, the party cuts large in appropriations to government bodies. So: unless money has to be solved more problems in the state. For the Workers' Party, local responsibility and local democracy are important. There shall be a balance between responsibility and authority and the economy to manage the tasks for which the municipalities are responsible. I am therefore satisfied with the main features of the proposition. West Agder has major living conditions challenges. In the evening post, a former government council tells us that he was unfamiliar with this as a state council. But it cannot be said loud enough – there are major challenges in Agder. These challenges require political action, centrally and locally, because we cannot have it like this, in short and well! Therefore, I would say that I have great expectations that in the future Kristiansand will be covered by the metropolitan supplement. It is not understandable that the challenges that exist in the region should provide increased resources to the regional capital of Agder, which is a driving force in much of the ongoing work on living conditions in the region. This must be the last proposition where Kristiansand doesn't get big city funds. But the proposition addresses living conditions challenges, and especially important are kindergartens, which have been addressed by many from this pulpit today. Kindergartens are important to break what is called negative social inheritance. I am therefore very pleased that the majority will follow developments in the kindergarten sector closely. The municipalities get more money, also in Agder. That doesn't mean the municipalities are satisfied. They must continue to prioritise and develop services within a more liberal framework. It is a debate on distribution and at the same time priority, and never had to stop this debate! In a well-functioning democracy, such debates must be alive, and opinions must be broken – locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1135	Child protection is one of the most important services provided by municipalities to their inhabitants. Child protection is also one of the most vulnerable services provided by municipalities to their inhabitants. We're all going to get older once, or we have people in a close family who have become, and who need the municipality's services in the care of the elderly. Many of us have children in kindergarten or school, or we have them in our own close family. Child protection does not have the same general interest; it does not have the same press groups behind it, either at municipal or state level. This is precisely why child protection is one of the most vulnerable services, which therefore also requires special political attention. We have heard many speeches today from red-green politicians about the importance of child care and the importance of full child care coverage. We have heard articles on the importance of care for the elderly and on the importance of full health care coverage. We hear fewer articles about the importance of child protection and the need for full child protection. So what's the situation in municipal child protection? Barneminister Audun Lysbakken said to Stavanger AFTENblad on 3 May: «We have a critical situation in municipal child protection.» At the leadership conference of the Children's, Youth and Family Council on 15 April, according to the script on the Ministry's website, he says: «The situation is so serious in many municipalities that there is a risk that children's health and legal security are not being guaranteed.» What is the government's response to this frightening diagnosis? Does the government have any response to this diagnosis? Where has it become of the 400 posts you have been constantly talking about during the autumn and winter, after making the state budget available? Today’s Enterprise Commentator Kjetil Alstadheim summarized this in a comment on June 4: ‘The protection of children is in crisis. Child Minister Audun Lysbakken points to the municipalities, KS to the state treasury and Municipal Minister Liv Signe Navarsete on the Lysbakken.» The title of the article was ‘Pekeleken’. The ‘Pekeleken’ is an unworthy response to the challenges facing child protection. It's not any service, but it's the most vulnerable service we have, and this is some of the recipients who need our attention most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1153	As early as today's debate, Gjermund Hagesetter said that we have a Soviet-inspired income system. So it says a party that wants to get away from framework funding and move on to a more state-driven income system. I have really wondered if the Progress Party has understood the income system for the municipal sector. Luckily, I got this confirmed when Per-Willy Amundsen spoke later: the Progress Party cannot manage the income system for the local government sector. What did he say? It's just an employee in the department and Springlord who understands the system. Since, as far as I know, Amundsen is not employed in the department and is definitely not Springlord, he does not understand the income system. Thank you for your clarification. The income system is not that complicated, if we want to get into it. How the revenues of each municipality are calculated, we get an overview of each year in the Appendix to the budget proposal from the Ministry of Local Affairs, so-called Green Book. It is the responsibility of the Grand Duchy to determine the criteria to be taken into account and they should be amended at regular intervals. It's Storting's responsibility. We often use the term ‘full child care coverage’. Now we have full child care coverage, there are several who say. It almost seems like we've built kindergartens, so now we can do something else in the future. Yes, in those municipalities where the population is roughly constant, or even going down, there is full child-care coverage – perhaps once and for all. But in those municipalities where the population is increasing, there is not full childcare coverage – once and for all. The population is increasing, thus also increasing the number of young people, and therefore more kindergartens have to be built. So we have to stop saying that we now have full babysitting. Many municipalities must continue to build kindergartens. Many municipalities have to build many kindergartens in the years to come. Let's not forget that. I just mentioned municipalities with growth in the population – so-called growth municipalities. Many of these municipalities are located in the central east, but also some municipalities are located in Rogaland, Hordaland and Tøndelag, and elsewhere in the country. Common to many of these municipalities is that they are low-income municipalities. It makes it difficult to provide a good service to the inhabitants. People move to, and the municipalities have to expand the service offer. The economic situation of, and the level of, the provision of services in many of these municipalities is challenging. Fortunately, we have a government and a large number of people who are gripping this. The introduction of the so-called ‘growth premium’, as previously decided by the Stortinget, and the changes that are now being made in the cost keys with more emphasis on living conditions and less emphasis on distance, have been taken in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1164	I take the floor because I heard the speeches of the Labour Party's parliamentary leader instead, where she chose – which I must say is beginning to be symptomatic of the level of argument of the Labour Party's parliamentary leader – some sedentary quotations, slightly populist variants and easy-to-use with what others think. She had obviously read an interview I've given about the long-term development of Norwegian business, welfare societies and our ability to finance welfare assets in the future, and found out that a piece of a sentence could be taken a little bit out of context. Let me refer to what I said in this interview: ‘We must start by slowing down the growth of welfare goods and the growth of public sector employees, in order to give competitive industry and mainland Norway conditions to create new competitive products and services. I’m not saying that we’re not going to have a good public sector in Norway, but it’s about keeping a little behind today to afford the good welfare solutions in the future as well.’ Most surprising to me is if the Workers' Party disagrees with this. It is most surprising if, in fact, one disagrees when one has heard all the rhetoric that has come from the country's finance minister with indications of Dutch disease, discussions that public budgets cannot grow so much that competitive business is moving out of the country. If this is something the Workers' Party actually disagrees with, if this is the political dividing line, then it's an interesting dividing line. It would be very interesting to go back to the West and say that Helga Pedersen believes that we should not hold back a bit now in the public sector in order to secure jobs in the future. I believe that it is an important political task to ensure that growth in public expenditure does not go any faster than that in the long term – for the next generations – in relation to the costs and cost standards that competitive business can bear. Just over the next 20 years, we're going to go from an economy where we still have an increasing number of older people, but not a dominant number of older people, to a lot of older people, with the expenditure that comes in the municipal sector and in the health sector. This is the short-term perspective of creating space through investments in more growth in the years to come. If the Workers' Party now declares it as the dividing line in Norwegian policy, it's fine. I stand upright that I want a welfare society for future generations, not just to lose the petroleum fortune today. I use that as a basis for our overall economic policy. If the Workers' Party thinks otherwise, yes, I think they should say it in the public room, too, because it's not in line with what they usually say.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1176	The state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples — Samer and Nordmann. Both peoples have the same right and the same right to be able to develop their culture and language. Because together is a minority with a need for special protection, we have also included in the Constitution § 110a the obligation to facilitate this for the Sami peoples. As we like to point out, people live in the municipalities, and that's where they live their lives and meet public Norway. The municipalities and county councils must then also be able to meet their obligations towards Sami users in line with international and national obligations. And the government has in St.meld. No 28 for 2007–08, Joint Policy, states that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure the framework conditions for the local authority sector. The municipal bill also states that there is a difference in the costs of municipalities in this field, and the extent to which this will be compensated varies. Therefore, the issue was assessed in the context of the review of the cost keys. Unfortunately, this proved to be technically very difficult to incorporate into cost balancing, among other things. because there are few municipalities and relatively small amounts. I am therefore pleased that a Joint Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, stresses that the Sami people should also have equivalent services, where language and cultural aspects are taken into account. When this cannot be done within the ordinary system, special solutions must be created as in other areas. The majority of the Committee therefore requests that the 2011 State Budget assess how to better ensure the framework conditions for municipalities in order to meet their obligations towards the Sami people. This may, for example: is managed with a policy grant of its own, such as the small municipality grant, or the city grant we are now introducing, which is also measures to meet few municipalities with specific challenges. The point is that a solution needs to be found where this national task is also carried out through a framework grant to municipalities with challenges, and not as fragmented grants that come piece by piece to a few municipalities. I meet with the government's assessment in the context of the 2011 State Budget of how to better provide municipalities with framework conditions to meet their obligations to the Sami population as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1187	At the end of the debate, we are told that the basic tone of government parties can well be summed up so that everything good in society can be derived from government's forward-looking policy, as if the government had its own money that was not provided by taxing – that is, transferring freedom of choice and well-being from private homes. It is also said in a majority comment from the same parties that it is satisfied that full child-care coverage has now been achieved – which has otherwise been achieved thanks to the fact that this is a sector that is not fully municipalised, where it has actually been less ideological and has been willing to include private in the welfare offer. And in the Right's view, one way to go, if we're going to produce welfare services, is also to call on the wealth of initiative that's in the private sector, if you're going to come up with good welfare offers for the whole population. So to this statement that was criticized, to which the party leader in the Right replied excellently, but who again puts in relief what the red-green parties still claim, namely that the values are created as they are granted. But the values come from the sector that finances any public position, and they are the employees in the private sector – they are the ones that finance all public actions and all public employees, even though public employees also produce welfare and are part of the value creation. I'm not going as far as the retired health minister, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who, when he went into a position in the private sector, said it was so delicious to be over in the value creation. I say that public employees also do value creation, but it is the private sector, it is the taxpayers, who finance such a large public sector. Therefore, it is also important that municipalities get pressure to think through: Do we have good framework conditions for the companies in our municipality? Is there anything we can do to attract someone who wants to invest and build jobs in our community? And therefore, it is so unedagogical that one extracts from the incentives of the grant schemes that could have just made a local government more involved in the value creation itself – because it is often there, in the decisions and in the meeting with the local entrepreneurs, that it is actually determined whether there is an investment climate, and whether new jobs can be created in a municipality. And it is harmful when the incentive structure changes there that a general local government does not become so interested in industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1198	There are probably few representatives here who have opinions closer to that quote from Margaret Thatcher that «There is no such thing as society» than Michael Tetzschner. It's not that far from Margaret Thatcher to Michael Tetzschner, and it's probably right. If you look at how the representative Tetzschner thinks about value creation, it's completely remote from how anyone would perceive it. He said he wouldn't go as far as to say that there's no value creation in the public sector, and even if he corrected himself, what's under there is when he says that it's the private business that finances public welfare. That's not right. It would be perfectly possible to make sure that 100 pst. State operations in Norway were a self-financing affair. But we don't. Let's pick a mix model. Take the idea that nurses end up in public hospitals and start working privately, i.e. they don't go from value creation to value creation – everyone understands how unreasonable it is. The public and funding through the welfare state is something we do because we find that it is a good, efficient, democratic way of financing welfare services that we all have an interest in. But I took the floor to answer Erna Solberg for her reasoning and her interpretation of her own interview. There is no doubt that if you put up with the recruitment of people in the public sector, in the municipal sector, as she proved when she was the municipal minister herself, and instead spend the money on tax relief and reducing public revenue, then there is one way to pursue policies that are negative in meeting the challenges we have in the health care system, in the care of the elderly. We want to have a strong public sector, and we see that if there is an imbalance between the needs people feel need to be met and the resources made available to the public, it will weaken the confidence of the welfare state. So that's going to happen, not by people asking for the services that are needed, but what we need, for example. sees in health care now, that those who can afford to buy services outside. So says Erna Solberg, is it that you don't realize that this will mean a weakening of competitive business? Then I just want to say, it's not about it at all. We agree, both the government parties and the right, that we must follow the rules of action. It limits the nature of the framework conditions for competitive business. If we choose to have private service providers or a good public welfare, see it is... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1209	When I drew myself for a three-minute post right after Heikki Holmås, I expected that he would attack the Progress Party. He didn't. He attacked the Right instead. I expect that he has then understood what the Progress Party's alternative arrangement is all about, and that he believes that it is so good that there is no basis for further attacking what goes on in need-driven state funding and the solutions that the Progress Party stands for. That's good. But then it's the other one that hasn't got it all. The representative Helga Pedersen also talks about the Progress Party's alternative when it comes to need-driven government funding. What's not right is she claims that this will affect the districts. That, of course, is not correct. There shall be a need to trigger state funding. So it's independent of whether a cage in Oslo, Finnmark or anywhere in the country. So there should be no difference between the basic welfare services for a cage in a poor municipality or in a rich municipality. Everyone is to secure funding and ensure that these services are carried out. We're going to have an unbureaucratic, differentiated funding to secure all the services they need. The representative Sverre Myrli claimed that I had said that we had a Soviet-inspired income system. So I didn't say that. I said we had an antiquarian income system. So the only person who's been talking about a Soviet-inspired income system is Sverre Myrli. I have no objection to that description. But what I'm talking about was a Soviet-inspired accounting system, which assumes that it's a deduction that's a cost. So regardless of what you invest in, it's the deduction that determines the cost. That's wrong. We need a depreciation system that reflects in depreciation the loss you have in various asset classes. It has one in the private business. Then an impairment appears. A visible cost. One should also have done so in the municipal sector. Then one would have arrived at the maturity. One would then have discovered that one is in arrears when it comes to upgrading schools, churches, infrastructure, etc. There's something the Progress Party is going to talk about on several occasions until we get a system that reflects the real impairment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1218	It's almost a shame that this debate is about to go to the end, because now it really starts to move to here! We Red-Green have long wondered when the Right Party and the Advance Party were going to realize Siv Jensen's great dream of a common government project. In this way, today's debate is very interesting. I said in my first post that the Progress Party has chosen to distance itself from all of us – all of us – in terms of the Quality Communion Project. That's not so strange, because the Progress Party will shrink the local self-government and introduce an over-control by means of increasing rights-holding. Interestingly, Michael Tetzschner went in his first post almost to the frontal attack on the main philosophy of the Progress Party in the development of policies in the municipalities. It shall be reduced in favour of State override. What Michael Tetzschner said was that laws that impose legal requirements on services are in common with municipal autonomy. So it's going to be interesting to see how this principleal debate is going to evolve further in the time to come. So I also think that the post to Right Erna Solberg was interesting. She said we have to hold back a little bit today, don't spend money faster than what's sustainable for future generations, and don't bottle up the oil wealth today. Then she wondered what the Workers' Party thought about it. Without the fact that we've grouped that sentence, I think on behalf of the Workers' Party I can say that we don't disagree with that initially, but we may not be quite on a wavelength of content and just where the level is. But it's still not the distance between the Right and the Workers' Party that's big here. That's the distance between the Right and the Advance Party. If you've looked at the proposals of the Progress Party in the Committee's vote - now I've noticed through my five years at Stortinget that it's very rare that the Grand Prix representatives read the proposals they vote on, but cost you to read what's in the vote today, because there you'll see that the Progress Party is all alone about adding 2.5-3 billion. kr to the municipalities, which are therefore not to be governed by the municipalities themselves, but to which the state is to decide – it is plus to resource-intensive services. It's more lawmaking. It's plus to the nursing home. There is need-driven government funding — and this is where the entire register of municipal welfare services comes — health and care, primary school, secondary school, social services, kindergartens and, in addition, a proposal that is not included in the Right’s list of tax-deprived municipalities for more money. As I said at the outset, it will be very exciting to follow this debate further. Here it is clear that there are great ideological differences, not between the red-green and an overall opposition, but between the Progress Party on the one hand and all the other parties on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1231	The President assumes that the representatives have been involved in the matters that are at all times for voting in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1235	Yes, President, we're starting to be the worst people! It was the right parliamentary leader who inspired me to take the floor again. I would like to stress very strongly that the Workers' Party is, of course, behind the rule of action, and we do not want to spend more oil money than our export industries can bear. There we agree with the Right, and I want to reiterate that we have order in the economy and lower unemployment now, with the financial crisis, than what we had under the Bondevik II government, without the financial crisis. What the Labour Party and the Right disagree on is how we use the community's resources. Are we going to use them for tax cuts for those who already have the most, or are we going to use them to strengthen, renew and improve welfare and community solutions in this country? The working party, together with its government partners, is going for the last time. The Bondevik II Government, with Erna Solberg as Minister of State, prioritised tax cuts, and this continues to remind the rapporteurs. In Sweden, the Right Sister Party is in government. I suspect that the Right is watching and learning from them, and then it is worth noting the debate that is now taking place in front of the parliamentary elections in Sweden. There we can see with all possible clarity that there is a long distance between the developments that the citizens suggested to the Swedes before the elections and the results of the Swedish bourgeois policy. They promised to reduce the differences in society. They were talking about aliens. The result today is that social contributions are increasing in 90 pst. by the municipalities. They promised to increase investment in well-being, and they cancel public employees on a large scale. They also promised a responsible economic policy, and what did they do? Well, the government has even chosen to borrow money for its tax cuts – 80 billion. NOK 3 years. The richest percentage of the Swedish population has received 25 pst. by the tax havens. It's just the imagination that sets limits, the government says, and they suggest tax deductions even when someone goes out and airs your dog. Then to the Progress Party. The market-oriented thinking on which the Progress Party bases its policy is best suited where there is a good market base. It's in the big cities, not in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1248	I thank Gjermund Hageseter for his clarification. So he doesn't think we have a Soviet-inspired income system, but he thinks we have a Soviet-inspired accounting system – as if it were so much better! But in any case, he and the Progress Party are for a Soviet-inspired income system for the municipal sector, or need-driven state funding, as it says in the proposal. The municipal income system consists of two pillars: income antialiasing and expenditure antialiasing. Both components consist of a set of different criteria. But there are completely understandable criteria if you want to get involved in it. Nothing is randomness. Municipalities receive their income calculated from this system. Then a sailor can disagree with the system and the criteria that lie there. Then you have to change the criteria that lie there, and that's exactly what we're doing now, with the cost keys in the cost equalization. It's Storting's responsibility to do that, and we should do it at regular intervals because the country is changing and society is changing. Taking political decisions is weighing different considerations against each other. In the relationship between state and municipality, there are many different considerations that need to be weighed against each other. I speculate that since the introduction of the Presidency laws in 1837, there has been a tension between the state and the municipality – between the central level and the local level. One principle is that the service provision should be somewhat similar across the country, another principle is that we should have local maritime administration in Norway. Decisions shall be taken as far as possible into the system, closest to the population. So we have to weigh these different considerations: what is to be determined by the state, and what is to be determined locally in municipalities and county municipalities? For this reason, the proposal of the Progress Party for so-called need-driven state funding, which is intended to sit and distribute money to the municipalities, or to department or directorates, or whatever it may be – at least government bodies. One may well be for it, but then one ignores the principle of local maritime governance. As I said, we have to weigh different considerations against each other. We're making some changes in the income system now that's right. But we never get a perfect system. I am absolutely sure that no matter what we do, we are told that my municipality is getting too little money. The important thing is that I have the impression that all the municipalities in the country can also prove that my municipality is below the average. That's not the way it's supposed to be. We are now taking some important steps towards creating an even better income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1265	In 1992, Norway had a large government budget deficit. We carried out a tax reform. We lowered the taxes. Gro Harlem Brundtland and Sigbjørn Johnsen borrowed money to finance the tax breaks. It often happens in countries that are going to turn their economy upside down and that don't have an oil fortune. But it is no longer since the Workers' Party did just as the Moderates do now – using tax reliefs as an incentive to create more jobs. At present, the moderates peak the statistics – over the Social Democrats – in terms of confidence in creating new jobs. So the Swedes actually believe that that policy will create more jobs. When a Norwegian politician chooses an example that others cannot deal with entirely, in Norwegian debate, there is one way to argue that I think one should actually behave a little too well. But I have to say that if I had been in the situation that Sweden is in, I would have done exactly the same thing, just as Gro Harlem Brundtland did in 1992, to do something when we had a lot of unemployment. It is not that we agree on everything that concerns the rule of action. We agree, six out of seven parties in this hall, on how much money we're going to spend, but we don't agree on how we're going to spend them. I believe that this is a fundamental problem – and that was not part of it, because they were not really in favour of the rule of action when it came – that what the Workers' Party and the Right agreed on when we introduced the rule of action, namely that the extra money should not be used for normal public consumption in Norway, but should go to investments in growth in the Norwegian economy, which built business for the future, the Workers' Party under this government has run from. It means that we're spending the next generations' money every year instead of building more growth for those who come after us. That's not just what we're saying, because in every national budget it's been said that the generation balance has become worse with the arrangements made by the government. That is why I think it is important to have an action rule, but I also think it is important to talk about what we spend that money on which we get extra. I actually remember the situation at the beginning of the great period when the Bondevik II government was in power. We had experienced increased taxes, we had kept the rule of action, but over a third of Norwegian companies were evaluating relocation because the price of the crown was so high that we had to do something. We took care of it. We reduced, among other things: the administration of the local government sector. Then we delivered what Arne Strand summed up the four-year period with: that the Stoltenberg government came to the table. That's the story. We cleared, we arranged, and the best income year ever for the Norwegian municipal sector was actually that year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1278	I shall begin with a small explanation of vote: the right will support proposal No. 15 from the left. Then to the ongoing debate. I registered that Helga Pedersen was talking about our friends in Sweden, the Moderates, almost as if it were an unsocial party that was about to tear down the Swedish welfare state. It is interesting to note that in recent measurements the Moderates have passed the Social Democrats and are now Sweden's largest party. We'll see if it holds up to election day, but it says a little bit about how Swedish voters perceive the policy that is now taking place in Sweden. The representative Hilde Magnusson Lydvo had – to put it straight – a number of figures, comparisons and so-called professional analyses to prove that there was a major conflict between the Råre Storingsgruppe and Monica Mæland, the mayor of Bergen. I read earlier today from the Group meeting of the Workers' Party, where representatives from Hordaland – probably then Magnusson Lydvo – Bergen and Sør-Trøndelag were in Harnish over the regime the government is now presenting, about full dissatisfaction in the Workers' Party's accumulation group on the arrangements of the government, who will punish Bergen, who will punish Stavanger, who will punish the Red-Green Lighthouse Trondheim, and give them minimal counting on next year's municipal budget. This is something that Hilde Magnusson Lydvo and the Workers' Party now obviously have a need to cover, as they so boldly intervene in the debate and it seems exciting to discuss how things are going on in the Right. We have said very clearly that we want to go through just the big city grant, as the government has generously presented. They have taken the capital grant, the pot that Oslo got, and then distributed it to the four cities. It is the grand metropolitan grant that is now being offered to cities in Norway that face the greatest social challenges and have the biggest challenges of raising budgets. Hilde Magnusson Lydvo and others do not get away with the fact that the municipalities that have the most already get even more with this income system. That means that someone here has to admit that this system won't be perfect. Here, the Council of States must also be able to say that this is what we need to look at more closely when we get the final distribution in 2011. That's what the right one has said in the setting. We will come back both to the big city grant and to the distribution keys that are now included in the proposal, when we see the final draft state budget for 2011. That is what this debate should really be about: how will this turn out? Can you correct any of the distortions that have been lying there for a few years? Now it looks like it could actually get even worse. We agree that we need new cost keys, but we have to look at the overall distribution, and then the tax revenue the municipalities get to keep, is also an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1295	Helga Pedersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1298	In Norway, we have managed to keep low unemployment after the financial crisis came to an end. The availability is about 3 pst. In Sweden, the unemployment rate is now 9.8 p.m. I think it is great that the representative Solberg believes in Sweden and has faith in his Swedish sister party, but the numbers of vacancies can give an indication that the policies of the Moderates have not been fully effective in combating unemployment. In Denmark, the bourgeois parties have canceled their announced tax cuts because the reality has gone up for them. I also noticed that the representative of Solberg believes that the government has used the money incorrectly, understood that we have spent too much money on public welfare. Then I would like to challenge the Right parliamentary leader on where she thinks we've spent too much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1307	Clearly, the opposition is fragmented in terms of governance and financing of the local government sector. Fortunately, the single-price financing for the Progress Party will be completely impossible to implement even if we get a government shift at the next elections, and that is good. I note that the majority, minus the Advance Party, are united on a scheme for financing the sector, but with different weights and priorities between the parties. The municipal sector is complex. Simple solutions are not the answer. The fact that the Progress Party does not dampen its money consumption on behalf of the state does not surprise me, but I had believed that the economic reality in Europe had led to a more responsible attitude towards the use of public money. In the course of the debate, we have been able to see that the Progress Party is missing the Soviet Union. They're talking about a Soviet-inspired accounting system. At the national meeting of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen spoke about our health services being at Soviet level. This rhetoric, the Advance Party, is as out of date as the Soviet Union. So for the debate on value creation – private and public: the Labour Party should strengthen welfare goods, but also focus on business. In the Workers' Party we have a slogan about creating and sharing. The tradition of the Workers' Party has always been that we should create first to then distribute. The right has agreed with the Workers' Party to create. It's exemplary, but they haven't always been equally interested in sharing the goods with everyone. We create, and we share. We're also going to keep doing that to the municipalities in the municipal proposition. It's going to build further well-being in the country, as it has so far done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1320	Erna Solberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1323	I don't know if I'm ever going to convince the Labour Party's parliamentary leader that others might have some gold grain, that others have the same heart layer, or that they can pursue a policy that starts a good development for society. But I realize that when you choose countries you point to, you don't talk about social democratic Spain, which has 20 pst. unemployment, or other such. We can pick these countries around. I have one thing at my heart: I am at some international meetings where I meet colleagues from other countries who experience cutting. Then we're talking about cutting -- not like we're talking about, cutting when you don't grow as much as last year. But they cut – roughly – because the economy is unbalanced. They cut because they may have spent too much money and haven't taken care of the growth of their economy over the years. A debate like the Norwegian one, in which one later as if it were not the oil revenues, and our management of them, which have been the important but the social democratic wind, is a mockery of the policies of these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1330	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1333	I feel the need to establish two things in relation to the history writing here. One is the question of the rule of action. It was that SV was a follower of the rule of action. We have had an impact on our interpretation of the rule of action. We were skeptical of two things about the rule of action as it lay. One was that the money was to be used for tax relief, and the other was afraid that there would be a mechanical interpretation that would not allow us to operate counter-cyclical policies. Already that government Erna Solberg was part of, ran counter-cyclical policies and ran for 23 billion. kr over the rule of action in its last year, just by such an interpretation as we wanted. But the right used it on tax havens. Instead, we want to spend the money on investment and public welfare. To say one thing in the end: believing that investing in kindergartens is not an investment in the future is evidence of a lack of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1343	Gærmund Hageseter has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1346	The reason why I take the floor is the representative, Ingelill Olsen, who was very shocked that the Progress Party wanted to give the municipalities more money. What I'm registering is that one doesn't like it. The party of progress does it because we think there is a need to give the municipalities around the country more money to basic welfare services. We have also seen in our alternative state budget that we want to reduce bureaucracy, we want to reduce transfers to unprofitable business. We want to cut down on a lot of things. But we want to strengthen basic welfare services in the municipalities, and I'm proud to belong to a party that does it, as opposed to what the red-green parties do in their alternative arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1353	I must express great joy at the fact that the representative Myrli could share his deep insight into today's existing income system with the Stortinget. There are some of us who have also worked a little on it – and have some insight into it. But it's obvious that the representative Myrli believes that there is no effect of the income system that is untransparent and that gives effects that you had not seen the consequences of at the time you made the change, etc. Then I assume that, from the point of view of the representative, Myrlis, it was planned to, for example: the power stations would become the major winner of the income system with the changes made. It is obvious that the representative Myrli, the Workers' Party and all the red-greens really want to see 2/3 of the municipalities with the largest share of the elderly in their municipalities reduced their income as a result of changes in the system. So it's good to have an overview of the situation and really thought about it. There are a number of effects that will eventually be seen, which mean that this whole system needs to be looked at with new eyes, re-evaluated and actually simplified, so that there is a need that triggers the money – as the Progress Party wants – and not statistical models in the Ministry of Local Affairs. And then I think it's a little interesting that the representative Ingalill Olsen of the Workers' Party proclaims that the Advance Party is missing the Soviets. Because what I could knowingly hear during today's debate was that her associate representative Holmås was the one who obviously missed the Soviets most when he said that it could be done quite unproblematically so that the state took 100 pst. ownership of the business community, and that it could go very well. It looks a little bit more like what I know of the Soviet Union than the Progress Party is asking, namely, that you see the cost impact in the municipal accounts of worn-out building masses, of schools that fall due, and hospitals that need renovation. The reality today is that this is a cost that is hidden, and that makes the maturity happen from day to day, increases on, without having the opportunity to pick it up. But I find that you're more concerned with defending an archaic system than with thinking about new things when you're going to finance the municipalities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1362	The Progress Party wants to add more money to the municipalities. That's not rethinking, we've heard that many times before. It is the same thing over and over again: everything should be lubricated with oil money, but no one has said how to manage the economy if things go wrong. My point is that the economy in Norway, despite the fact that we have the great oil wealth we have, must be governed, while at the same time we are shifting to the world economy. We're part of a global economy. We've been told that through what's happened in Europe this spring. The municipal economy is also part of the global economy. Here too, the Progress Party is isolated in its reality from the other parties in the Stortinget. It can't be called reconnaissance. It should be a cross of thought for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1374	Much could have been said about the level of precision in this debate. The proponents of the Progress Party claimed that vacuum cleaner robots would be able to replace 5,000 employees in the municipal sector, and Højres Erna Solberg uses the Arne Strand of the Newspaper as a truth witness and draws parallels to Spain and 1992. Neither Solberg’s visions of the past nor Hageset’s visions of the vacuum cleaner are particularly relevant to what is on the agenda, which is the municipal proposition. It was, however, the representative Trond Greece's posts that made me redraw. It's not coverage for the gloomy picture he's drawing of the consequences for the big cities. The new cost key places greater emphasis on variables describing living conditions and social conditions, and Oslo stands out in particular and is better cared for. Thus, there is room for reducing the capital grant. So instead of removing it, it's divided between the four largest cities. If Greece believes that the big cities outside Oslo should have more, it must be taken from someone else, i.e. from municipalities which, on an objective scale, have major challenges. I would like to challenge Greece to answer who will take this from.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1381	It has been interesting to sit and listen to the debate, which in some areas has been a bit of a leap, but which shows an image that there is a big gap between parties in the opposition. After listening to this debate, the Norwegian people cannot have the slightest idea of what policy a government has taken from the right party, which from time to time they think they are going to enter into cooperation, would lead to the most important welfare producer in our country. The new income system shall better capture the actual costs of providing welfare services to the inhabitants of a municipality. We're adapting this map to a changed terrain. This means that municipalities where a large proportion of the population are busy and do not require a lot of municipal services will get a smaller share of the cake. So the municipalities are cheaper to operate than other municipalities. The same applies to municipalities where a large proportion of the population require municipal services, such as: many older ones, a larger part of the cake. And they get a greater share of the income than they've had before, because they're more expensive to run. For most people it will appear to be fair. Since there is a real growth in the frame rate for the next year, there are no municipalities that will have a real decline in their revenues, even if they are isolated in their system conversion losses. Some have been in the field of plant taxes. There has been broad agreement in the Storting that powerhouses should retain their income, nor has KS proposed any changes to it. There have been no changes in the income system considered. Power Municipalities receive a large proportion of their income from concessional income and property taxes. So, it's not part of the income system. The tax on natural resources is part of the basis of income blending and the income of the municipalities has been reduced as income blending has increased from 55 pst. to 60 pst. from 2009 to 2011, which results in significant losses for the municipalities. It's also important to notice that of the growth to next year, if we add 2.5 billion. NOK 42 million. kr to the municipalities of power. When we also see daily revisions and posts from this talking room, one would think it was the 42 million. kr which was a significant problem for the rest of Kommune-Noreg. It's probably not like that. I can also ask the question, of course: Is it so that the Progress Party, which has been aware of this today, will change the natural resource tax and remove it from the power municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1390	Trond Helleland has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1393	Very short to the representative Haugli, who gave me a visit in his – preliminary – last post. I have a quote from the unanimous decision of the KS National Government on 28 May, which is in the vote on page 35: ‘The new income system provides both ‘winners’ and ‘losses’ in all parts of the country. Nevertheless, the National Government would point out that the four largest cities now have to share the capital grant previously granted by Oslo alone, and that the government should increase this grant and assess the number of municipalities in the scheme on the basis of the specific challenges facing these populations. The new structure also takes little account of the growth municipalities.» As far as I know, the red-green parties also have a majority in the national government of the KS, but there is a unanimous national government that says that large municipalities and large cities, especially Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim, have come out badly. It cannot be explained by the representative Haugli with new income keys. This is too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1403	Michael Tetzschner has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1406	In the opinion of the Council of State that the municipalities are the main welfare producer in society: that is not correct. The largest welfare producer in society is the families. It's typical of the red-green rhetoric that the family and the private community are practically nonexistent. In the past, we have seen today that the bourgeois parties have called for some respect for who is financing the public sector. It's the families. The red-green government does not have a crown left over if it is not first taken out of the families. And what we also have to realize is that every dollar has an alternative purchasing power, it has an alternative use. Having too high a tax rate is reducing family welfare menus and their own recipes on how to put together a good life. So once again this: the families are the greatest welfare producer in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1414	Mr Sivertsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1417	What made me take the floor was the indignant speech by the representative of Greece about what he describes as ‘too bad’ when he refers to KS’s statements, which are also reflected in the vote. We all know that it is easy to argue that there should be more money, but the representative of Greece did not respond to the challenges he received from the representative Haugli. Where are you going to take the money? As the Council of State has explained earlier in the debate, this is a zero-sum game. It's about the distribution between the municipalities. Then the representative of Greece also jumps over the fact that had it not been for the political grips you take, where you actually lift up the big cities, both Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger had come out worse than they do with the scheme proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1424	One must almost be a Right-Man in order to characterize the family as a welfare producer. For me, the family stands as a close community of people who choose to live their lives together. I don't have the same relationship with the municipality. I live in the municipality, I really appreciate the municipality, but fortunately my husband and my children are my family, and I have a very different relationship with them. Municipalities – yes, they are the largest providers of welfare services. 70 pst of the welfare services are provided in the municipality. I know very well who is funding those services. We and all the other residents do it over the tax haven. We do it because we want to deliver to a community. Unlike the Right, I want to strengthen that community – not by increasing taxes, it's good if we can have a tax level that's not too high. But it should be high enough for us to have a strong and good community with Community services where we provide as we can and get as we need, where the weakest of us can get what they need and where the more resource-intensive can also get what they need. I'm thinking of a system that goes in a direction where the most resource-intensive can buy more and more services. In the long term, there may be a challenge for the Community and the Community system — the Nordic model and the Norwegian system, which we are proud to have managed to build. It's a system that also produces value creation. It is not that the Nordic countries have a lower value creation than other countries, although we have a safety net and a welfare system that we should be absolutely proud of and that we should take care of in the future. Community and distribution are strong for me and for this government. That's what we're going to do to keep going. We also need to work to further value creation, and we can do something within such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1433	Håkon Haugli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1436	I asked the representative of Greece a simple question, but got no answer to anything but a reference to a KS opinion. Well, KS points to challenges, but not to any solutions. It's a simple fact that to get some municipalities more, a few less. Greece says something about who's going to get more, but nothing about who's going to get less, and so we're going to have to take that further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1441	Swearing Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1444	I just want to end the dispute with the Advancement Party and Amundsen, and I understand from the body language of the President that he also wants. I haven't said that we have a perfect income system for the municipal sector. Rather, I said that we should regularly make changes to the system, because the country is changing and society is changing. I pointed to the growth municipalities as a group of municipalities that have special challenges. That is why the system should be changed, and so should we. My point is one and only: we as deposit representatives cannot blame for the complexity of the system. If we disagree with parts of the income system, we should change what we disagree with, not replace it with a state-run, bureaucratic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1453	It was not the end of the dispute with Amundsen, but on the contrary a new round with him, for the next speaker is just the same representative Amundsen. Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1458	If the representative Myrli really thinks that you are going in the right direction, step by step, it is very difficult to explain why the bias is now increasing with the changes made in the income system. That's the ultimate proof that you're actually going in the wrong direction. So it's not like that, even though you repeat it on both the in and out, that our system is more bureaucratic. On the contrary, it is simple, transparent and predictable, which is the complete opposite of how today's municipal income system works. Then I think it's very interesting that we have a municipal minister standing on the floor of Stortinget and quoting Karl Marx. It might say a little bit about the challenges we're facing in terms of the red-green government. It may be in many ways a warning that it is very high time to get these batches out of the government offices and replace them with something more foresight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1467	Then no more of those who have speaking time for good have asked for the floor. But it has the rapporteur, Mr Olsen, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1470	The changes in cost keys do not increase the bias, on the contrary. But when the cost keys have not been adjusted in 15 years, it is clear that there will be redistribution. It's elementary, and I hope everyone who sits on the municipal committee has come to understand that. There's been an adjustment that makes it more fair. This does not necessarily mean that all municipalities are equally satisfied, for example: Those who go down. But those who go up and get more are more satisfied. So we must not spread untruths. The deviations don't increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1476	I only have a very brief comment for the Progress Party. In that case, to the extent that I have quoted Karl Marx, it is entirely unintentional. Because I have to say that there I might have my limitations. But the quote outbox of Karl Marx is nice that the Progress Party may be able and aware of. Unfortunately, it cannot be the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1481	Then we can be sure that when the mayor quotes Marx, it comes from the heart and not from the writings. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4270]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1499	I won't say much about the payroll in the state. It's more of a ritual exercise for Stortinget to go through it. But I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to commend both the Minister and the payroll partners, because this salary settlement was the first public negotiations in a very long time when it was possible to make some important steps towards equal pay. I would like to make two points regarding the central negotiations and the local negotiations. There were clear demands in the central negotiations that the pot should be given a guide, so that women get at least 60 pst. It was set at 300 million. to specific equal pay policies. The second is that local negotiations agreed that women should have a greater share than the distribution of annual work between women and men. I think this is spectacularly good. It is worth noting that both the Council of State saw this as a good grip for equal pay, and that the organisations viewed it as a good grip for equal pay. The negotiations with the Joint Alliance, and the first private sector negotiations and the first public-public-sector negotiations promised very well. In my opinion, this is something that can add a template for how we can work on getting equal pay. Because even though it is that we have now taken one step on the road towards more equal pay between women and men, it is still so that even after these grips the pay gap is great. After all, we started with a starting point where women make 85 pst. of the hourly wages and salaries of men. It is announced that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Audun Lysbakken, for the autumn, will present a big message on equal pay, and this was, in my opinion, a good start to the work, which our government is constantly doing to bring about more justice. For everyone, it is agreed that work of equal value should be valued equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1514	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4271]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1530	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1539	Today, the Energy and Environment Committee will in a way turn Gudrun into the Stortinget. It's a Gudrun that all parties actually want. I'm not going to prejudge the events, but it could be a good and short debate. The matter we are dealing with today is the plan for the development and operation of the Gudrun field in the middle of the North Sea. Gudrun is located 55 km north of Sleipner. The extractable resources are estimated to be 127 million barrels of oil equivalent divided by oil/condensate, gas and NGL respectively. Production start is planned for the first quarter of 2014. Parts of Norwegian continental shelf are today defined as mature, i.e. as areas with known geology, infrastructure development, declining production and increasing unit costs. However, these areas still have a significant potential for increasing extraction rates, improving the efficiency of operations and exploiting adjacent resources. The Gudrun field was first detected in 1974. This illustrates the long-term management of petroleum. It is now possible to develop fields that were previously not extendable. This is good for resource management on the socket, but it is also good for the welfare community of Norway. Fields that, in isolation, may not be profitable and propelling, become profitable because they can make use of infrastructure in the neighbourhoods. In the Gudrun area, the rightholders plan to expand with an independent platform, with oil and gas exports via Sleipner and further to Kårstø. The link to Sleipner makes the field a good example of the recovery of already existing installations. The general rule in Norwegian petroleum management is that no substances dangerous to the environment should be released into the industry. The zero emission target was set in St.melding. No 58 for 1996-1997, Environmental protection policy for sustainable development. Gudrun has good environmental solutions. Among other things, CO2 will be separated from the gas and reinjected in the Utsira formation at Sleipner. The working party and the red-green government make strict demands on our petroleum industry. It is important from an environmental and climate perspective, and it is important to ensure technology development that ensures that Norwegian Socket is world-leading in environment and safety. It's not least very important for all those who work in Norwegian Sockets. A safe and secure workplace is a fundamental right. In this area there is no room for compromise. The development of Gudrun is important for the Norwegian supplier industry. The investments are estimated at about 19.5 billion. kr. This shows how much value creation will be generated on the socket. The Norwegian supplier industry is very competitive, and we hope therefore Norwegian suppliers will be very central to the development of the Gudrun field. There are many jobs related to the petroleum sector, and the industry is a foundation for our common well-being. Long-term interest and value creation require solidity of the main features of petroleum management. This case is a good example of that. In the future, the world faces two major challenges: climate challenges and a strong increase in demand for energy. Petroleum industry is a key industry in both challenges. It requires willingness for political cooperation. The work with Gudrun has been an example of good cooperation between the parties. I look forward to continued good cooperation on petroleum policy in the years ahead. In this way, we will also contribute to addressing climate challenges and managing our energy resources on the base in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1574	This case I think is really very positive. There is an overall committee that is behind what you want to do, namely to develop another petroleum field on a Norwegian base. I'm not going to repeat all the good words that the previous representative said. I think it's very enjoyable in these times when someone in the media keeps hearing that now we can't allow more oil and gas business, both because we're at risk of accidents and not least because it makes us late, that when the projects still come to the Storting, a unanimous committee says yes. I think that's good. I just wish we had an equally nuanced and good debate in the media. We don't get that. In the media, unfortunately, there is a very bright signal about what some parties want, and not least what the government wants. But I'm going to give praise to the case rapporteur and to the red-green parties for the fact that when it's really going to happen, you're going to tie the team close and all are going to be equal, and all votes for Norway to continue to be a good oil and energy nation in the future. Like I said, that's good. It's important to get continuity in this industry. One cannot get enough emphasis on the long-term and capital-intensive industry and the importance of having a steady progress in what is happening to ensure that one maintains and develops skills, maintains and develops jobs, and maintains and develops Norway as a credible and even oil and gas supplier. This project contributes to it. But it's very close enough to be a solution to our overall challenges on Norwegian pedestal. Because while we have a good gas development, we see a significant decrease in oil production. There needs to be even more offensive measures to secure us as an oil and gas nation in the future. We find too small and too few new fields to replace the production that you currently have. I am pleased with what the case rapporteur said about Norway being an energy supplier, and that the oil industry is the key to this. I think that's words from the red-green parties – all of them – that it's worth noting. Because it is also important to give clear signals to this industry that this is what the government actually wants, and not that the government in the kerosene message should signal that Norway should actually go away from being an oil nation because it has made us late, but on the contrary that this is an industry that is important both for Norway and our value creation and for us as energy suppliers. Once again, commend the rapporteur for the good positions she has taken. Let me also hope that the Council of State in its article – in addition to talking about the importance of this project – can give some signals about the kerosene message. There have been some different signals in the media, considering what progress it will be on it, in the light of the accident in Mexico. It is important that we learn from the mistakes that others have made, the accidents that have occurred, but the lesson must be – as President Obama also takes over – how we can do this better, not how we can end the chapter. I believe, on the basis of the statement made by the rapporteur, that the government will in no way close the book in respect of Norwegian oil business. It's also important that the government doesn't faminate between the sides, that you don't blink back and forth in the chapters because you don't remember where they ended the day before, but that you actually have a clear advance on this. I accept that in some areas you would like to spend more time than you initially wanted, because you have seen that new challenges have arisen. Challenges that you thought you would avoid having to take experience from have happened. But giving a signal on the progress plan, a signal of the 21st round in addition, would have been very useful, even though it's a little bit on the side of what Gudrun is really about, when you look at the individual project. But the Progress Party gives its full support to the project. We are very much looking forward to the investments to be made. We think it is important for Norwegian oil industry; we think it is important for the supplier industry. I hope as case rapporteur that this gives many jobs on Norwegian soil and on Norwegian land – not just because we want it, but because Norwegian business proves to be the most competitive when contracts are to be concluded. Then I hope that the rapporteur's words will also be reflected in the other contributions from the Committee, as we were a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1589	This is the first proposition during this landfill period dealing with the development and operation of a field for the extraction of our petroleum resources. It's a beloved proposition. After three decades of growing production on the base, oil production has fallen rapidly in the last decade. New resources detected through exploration activity are much smaller than the volumes we've produced. The replacement rate – the ratio of new findings to withdrawals – has been around one to four in recent years. That is, we only find one barrel of new oil when we extract four barrels. The forecasts of the Oil Directorate show that oil production from existing fields will be halved already in the next ten years and reduced to about 20 pst. of the level of the day in 2030. It is likely that in the future a further development of Norwegian pedestal will have to be based more on the development of small, complex fields with lower margins than has traditionally been the case, such as Gudrun. Although Gudrun is historically not one of the largest areas on Norwegian pedestals, it will provide Norwegian suppliers with met new challenges. The investment forecast for the Gudrun field is estimated at 19.5 billion. kr, and since we know the Norwegian supplier industry as an industry of high competence and competitive solutions, we must be able to assume that some of these investments will be carried out by Norwegian suppliers. Like the other batches, the right supports this proposition for the expansion and operation of the Gudrun field. It is positive that in this way we ensure better use of infrastructure in the area, and it is good that the CO2 gas is planned to be sent to Sleipner for landfill in the Utsira formation. In addition, it is likely that the project will contribute to future income to the country, both through taxes and taxes, and from the state's own holdings. It is a primary objective of the Right that Norway maintains a sustainable level of petroleum activity for as long as possible. It is important to avoid the confusion of the technological expertise required for the future development of a progressively more mature petroleum industry. The opening of fields as Gudrun is important for the further development of Norwegian pedestal, and today is therefore a joyous day in this way. However, I would point out that the main challenges for the future of Norway as an oil and gas nation are still there. If new areas of significant importance are not opened up to petroleum activities in the coming years, there is a danger that major technology clusters in Norway will become confused, either by being closed down or by moving to other parts of the world. Gudrun doesn't change this fact. These may be technology clusters that focus on challenging new field developments, such as: the development of deep water, remote or environmentally challenging areas. Once the clusters have weathered, it may be difficult to rebuild them. In that case, technology has to be picked up elsewhere in the world. A sustainable, long-term petroleum industry is very important for the Norwegian supplier industry to maintain its international position. A healthy Norwegian supplier industry, which will also be able to compete internationally in the future, requires a level of activity based on Norwegian base for the further build-up of competence. The level of investment on the base is still high, but we rely on new, driving findings to bring forward more projects that the actors want to realise. That is why on several occasions we have pointed out that the sitting oil and energy minister and the Stoltenberg II Government have a too passive approach to future challenges for the petroleum industry, among others. in relation to opening up new promising exploration areas. It is important that we have a government that makes ambitions visible for the country's most important industry, and from the right we have repeatedly stressed the importance of the government delivering a petroleum message that can make visions, goals and strategies visible for further development of the industry in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1609	I have a few comments on the Committee's position. First of all, I think it is very gratifying that a unanimous committee joins the commentaries on HMS. Earlier this year, the Aftenposten was able to report a recent investigation carried out by the Petroleum Authority among 231 platform managers, operating managers, technical staff and protection officers on Norwegian pedestal. It was depressing reading. One in ten admits that jobs and operations start without the use of risk mitigation measures. One in four answers that they never, or rarely, use experience from other risk analyses as a basis for new assessments. "It'll just be a sheet that hangs with it," said one of them. Only one out of five answers that you take into account previous analyses when analysing whether the job is safe. In such an image, it is very important not to compromise with the safety of Norwegian pedestal. The oil industry is a money machine, and this tends to make players a little eager. It is our job to hold back and put health, the environment and not least the safety of employees first. I am therefore pleased that the entire Committee stresses that the concept of operation and the dimensioning of the Gudrun residential district must ensure sound operation and ensure adequate recovery and rest for all workers groups on the platform. The signals from the Petroleum Control Department, the Ministry of Labour and the Stortinget are a powerful message, which should be clearly perceived. There's one more thing that's worth mentioning. An overall committee underlines the importance of Norwegian employment and local value creation related to such projects and that Norwegian and local industry is given as much priority as possible in such development. I always get warm about the heart when I see the right side leaving their principles of a free market without state intervention. The focus of the right-hand side on local value creation and Norwegian industry is a good and necessary settlement with its own market-liberalist ideology, and it is an important recognition from the Advance Party and the Right that things other than the free market should be given importance in policy-making, in particular the policy on value creation. The party of progress prefers to produce SV as a party which, first of all, has never supported oil activities in Norway at all and which, second, wants to close all oil production in Norway overnight. Both parts are non-substantial and defensive claims made by the party which themselves cannot demonstrate a link between their own petroleum policy and climate policy. The party's claims are a little surprising. The party itself has problems recognising that climate should be a factor in its policy at all. Unlike that, the SV's oil policy constitutes a whole and a continuity. We have many times, over several decades, arranged for a moderate rate of extraction, and had, for example, The Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party with us on this in the treatment of previous expansions, and some of the parties were also involved in our remarks on this in connection with the previous notification of petroleum. We want a better resource management, we want a debate on extraction rate, and we want a discussion on the individual calling a soft landing. How is the transition from fossil to green economy going to happen? By winning everything to the last drop, or by wise political choices? We have supported the development of several fields, including in the opposition. For example, we were. for both Kristin and Snorre, and it wasn't just because of the names. White bears and cereals are other examples. But we have also voted against some fields. For example, we were in SV together with the oil friends in the Progress Party to vote against Sleipner West in the early 1990s – with two completely different reasons. SV would postpone the project to avoid accumulation of investments over a few years and provide better earnings, while the Progress Party voted against because they were against state ownership in the Sleipner West. If the majority had then followed SV's wish to postpone, the state's revenues from Sleipner would have been much higher because of the low oil prices during the expansion. Had we followed the Progress Party, Sleipner West would probably never have been built with its world-famous CO2 management technology, or subsequently taken over by private actors, for example. BP. The Progress Party would make Sleipner West 100 percent private, and opposed using taxpayers' money, as they called it, in risky projects on Norwegian pedestal. Privatisation was so important for the Progress Party that they voted against the whole development. It asks who will be high and dark in debates on Norwegian petroleum policy. In the debate on how oil revenues should benefit the Norwegian people, and how we should not affect the environment and safety, the Progress Party has very little to be proud of. They should go quietly in the halls.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1630	The committee has visited Gudrun a few weeks, and she has come out well and got followers in all camps. The Committee is in the configuration of Gudrun development, and the plan for development and operation is very well described here by the case-speaker and others who have spoken before. So let me just briefly highlight the following things: it's an extension that can, and hopefully will, create important business development in a time that's demanding for our supplier industry. For the last ten years, we have built a very good, forward-looking and outsourced supplier industry, and it is our hope that the Gudrun development will also contribute to the important development of jobs throughout the country. Technology development, infrastructure and more knowledge have made the field relevant for development now – despite the fact that several of today’s committee members were discovered. The commitment to technology development is, therefore, central to the realisation of projects on known parts of Norwegian pedestal, and to ensure the best possible use of the fields. The fact that the projects that are being developed have a broad agreement here in this room is also an important value. The use of existing infrastructure on known parts of Norwegian base is thus the best possible use of petroleum resources in known areas. There's something that the whole Big One can gather around.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1639	We have today to treat the development and operation of the Gudrun field. The rapporteur went through the committee voting in a good way. Gudrun is located in the middle of the North Sea, near Sleipner. It's an important and proper extension, as the Christian People's Party sees it. We're getting optimal use of already existing infrastructure in the area. I'm actually taking the word for a brief remark about electrification. It is important to see any case and its expansion on a Norwegian base in this perspective, given the climate struggle we are facing. Gudrun has a power demand estimated to be a maximum of 13 megawatts, which will be covered by Sleipner A via a 20 megawatt power cable. There will be no need to install a new power plant on Sleipner, and the calculations indicate that Gudrun will release approximately. 0.6 million. tonnes of CO2, corresponding to an average of approx. 50000 tonnes of CO2 per year. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to make optimal use of existing infrastructure in the area. It is important for the best possible use of resources, but also for investments already made in the area. We know that power from land has been assessed, both to Gudrun and Sleepner by the operator and the Oil Directorate. The force from Sleipner A to Gudrun is intended to cost approx. 420 million. kr, while power from land is cost-based at SEK 1,1 billion. kr. None of these solutions has a cost level in relation to the impact on emissions, which suggests that this measure should be implemented. We believe that expansion is too small and emissions too small to defend land-flow demands. If we were to consider a possible land-flow solution, we should have assessed it for the entire Sleipner area. Petroleum supervision and the Ministry of Labour have also noted that the planned housing block is not fully dimensioned to meet the needs of the planned operational concept. We assume that the operating concept will have a dimensioning of the residential neighbourhood which ensures proper operation, as the Committee stresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1656	I am pleased that the Committee shares the view that Gudrun is a right and an important development both for the best possible use of resources and for investments already carried out in the area. The development of the Gudrun field will help to maintain the level of activity and employment in the supplier industry. This is essential for the preservation and development of knowledge and technologies in petroleum-related industries. The importance of employment in the industry is also an important argument for a uniform and predictable level of activity. The development of Gudrun will involve a new facility suitable for the development of resources in the area north of Sleipner. A future expansion of existing findings, such as Sigrun, and new oil and gas findings in the area, may significantly extend the production period of the devices. In the area around Gudrun, exploration wells are planned both in 2010 and 2011. The development of Gudrun can make these projects more profitable. Gudrun is a significant project that will make important contributions to the total production and level of activity on Norwegian pedestal. The expansion has already awarded contracts to Aker Solutions in Verdal. The project contributes to a better use of infrastructure in the area and helps to increase the likelihood that other projects in the area will be developed. Not many projects in Norway have investment in 20 billion. kr-class. Gudrun also has good environmental solutions. The Gudrun gas has a high CO2 content. The CO2 will be removed from the gas of Sleipner A and will then be reinjected into the Utsira formation in the same way that the CO2 gas from Sleipner is being handled today. So, as speakers before me have been in, the power of land has been assessed for Gudrun. Both the calculations made by the operator and those made by the authorities indicate that there will be very high operational costs. The power of Gudrun will therefore be covered by existing power capacity on Sleipner. There will be no need to install new power-generating equipment on Sleipner A, and the power cable from Sleipner to Gudrun will have additional capacity in view of future expansions. The Gudrun gas also contributes to the development of the long-term business on Kårstø. I am pleased that the committee has given its unanimous support to the government's proposal for the development of Gudrun. When it comes to the problem, there is agreement on the main lines of the petroleum policy in Norway. That's good. It is important for the efficient use of Norwegian petroleum resources. The name Gudrun is derived from North Island mythology. Like the author's wife, the field is a complicated lady. However, the operator has good experience in dealing with such ladies, as Kristin also had such qualities. Gudrun was found in 1974, but is being built up only now. It shows the value of the technology development and the knowledge building that has taken place in the Norwegian petroleum industry and that I am committed to facilitating further development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1682	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1685	I share the Council's assessments and setting-up and the entire package when it comes to this matter, so this is not a malicious question. Many people are concerned about the accident that has happened in the Gulf of Mexico, and the government itself has said that one should not go further with 21st lap on deep water before one knows what's behind it. Now this isn't necessarily very deep water as such, but in the general oil debate some parties have claimed that now we don't have to do anything until we know what happened in the Gulf of Mexico. How has the government assessed that part when one now goes on with Gudrun without having received the answers, which one has requested in all other areas, from the Gulf of Mexico?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1695	We work primarily on two levels with the question that the representative raises. One is that the Petroleum Inspectorate continuously assesses it as a source of information from the accident in the Gulf of Mexico towards the ongoing activity we have in Norway. The second is to get the major and more final conclusions of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, in order to use it as a basis for improvements in Norwegian oil and gas policy in the future. We don't have that knowledge so far, and I'm very concerned that there should be a fact-based approach to oil and gas policy, as in other areas. It means that it is not possible to conclude on the big question and the big picture in this before we know anything more about what was the explanation and the cause of an accident that is actually still present in the Gulf of Mexico.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1704	The Council of State stressed in its statement how important it is that we have an agreement in Norwegian oil policy. It is clear that there is also something we would like to highlight in our discussions with important markets in Europe, that there is a great deal of consensus in Norwegian oil policy, and that it is therefore predictable and provides a good framework for trade. Now it's like this that it's been a while since we've had the opportunity to discuss the petroleum policy. We have discussed a single matter today, but we should also like to have a complete discussion in the form of a communication on the petroleum policy. The last signals from the Council of State were that it will arrive early in 2011. I am a little curious as to whether the Council of State can say a little more about when we can expect to receive a notification of the petroleum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1709	There's no hokuspocus around it. What I said earlier about the progress plan on the kerosene message is that I have had an ambition to present it around the turn of the year. This may mean that it's finished before the end of the year, but it could also mean that something goes over the turn of the year. That's for example. not naturally to have very different propulsion plans for the notification of petroleum and the management plan, which we are now carrying out, all the time that there could be important assessments made here in both of these areas. I don't have an exact date to come with now, but we're working on this. I have had good rounds of consultations around the country over the winter and have received a lot of good input. We're now working on processing them in the department, and we're going to use the autumn to write a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1716	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1721	When, after 32 dry wells, Phillips Petroleum found oil on the Ecofisk field on Christmas Eve 1969, it was the beginning of a golden age for the nation of Norway. Gradually large oil and gas deposits were made, both in the 1970s and 1980s. These findings have now become ageing oil and gas finds. From a production stopover for oil of more than 3 million barrels per day, production in Norwegian fields is now approx. Two million barrels a day. Oil production in the North Sea is still declining, while gas production is increasing. According to the International Energy Agency, the IEA, Norway’s main contribution to greenhouse gas reduction is to produce as much oil and gas as possible by 2030. Such Norwegian oil and gas production will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal power plants in Europe. It is therefore gratifying that we are dealing today with the issue of the development and operation of the Gudrun oil and gas field. The field is located near the Sleipner field and can therefore benefit from existing infrastructure. This means that costs are kept at an acceptable level. There is an overall committee that now gives a clear signal that the Gudrun oil and gas field can be planned and expanded. I notice that the representative Serigstad Valen from SV is also behind this setting. It doesn't surprise me very much. In most debates and newspapers, the representative Serigstad Valen opposes increasing the production of fossil energy in the form of oil and gas. It is difficult to understand SV’s policy in the energy sector. The slowdown of oil and gas production is constantly mentioned by SV as one of the largest contributions Norway can make to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. On any occasion, SV claims that greenhouse gas emission reduction is the most important measure the size can adopt. Nevertheless, this position is not so important for SV that they want to re-assess the Watercourse Protection Plan. If it was done, a lot of hydropower could have been expanded. Nor will SV launch impact assessments of the Lofoten and the Vestralen, but it can accept that it is done for the Barents Sea. The SV's attitude to the oil and gas sector and to the use of more hydropower tends, in my opinion, to be clearly moral. I conclude by pointing out that this is a happy day, because Gudrun oil and gas fields are to be planned and expanded. The production of Gudrun will make a further contribution to the country’s economy from the oil and gas sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1734	In my speech I forgot to thank the President-in-Office for her work, so I will do it now. But that's not why I asked for the floor, it was because of the posts of the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen and the kicks that went to the Right that we should have supposedly left our view on how the market should work. It is clear that the Right looks with great pleasure at all assignments allocated to the Norwegian supplier industry. For the most part, there is no one, I assume – regardless of political position – that orders to the Norwegian supplier industry go against it. However, as the representative Serigstad Valen has probably got, the Right has its own comment where we say that this must be done through ‘competitive offers’ in a market. Here, there might be a big difference between the Right and the party of the representative Serigstad Valen: we don't think it's possible to protect Norwegian industry for progress. Progress is coming into competition with other providers, a competition where we need to get better all the time. And it'll be the Norwegian supplier industry, fortunately. They are active on the international market, create great values for our country and also make themselves felt internationally. The right has by no means left its place of stand. Otherwise I also noticed that the representative Serigstad Valen did not talk so much about the Gudrun extension itself. He focused a lot on security, and we can all agree on that is important. But it is clear that there is a double communication in the message of the Socialist Left with regard to what you want with the oil in the future. I hope that's the line that, among other things. The representative Eirin Kristin Sund has called for, and the Council of State has also expressed its view that there should still be a broad consensus on Norwegian petroleum policy in the future, and that there is no SV's vision to dominate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1743	The clear signal we are giving today is seen as important and decisive for the further development of parts of the petroleum environment in Norway. The Gudrun structure was found as far back as 1974, when oil, gas and condensate were detected. This way, you have a long time waiting for a clarification. The expansion is estimated to cost about 20 billion dollars. kr, is considered very important and gives prolonged employment. When the representative Serigstad Valen tries to give the impression that the Progress Party – and for a large part also the Right – is almost jumping from its principle and handing out tasks to the Norwegian companies, it falls on its own urism and shows that the Serigstad Valen has an approximate way of dealing with the truth that he should be too good at. I would like to quote the group trust authority in Aker Solutions, which says: «A Gudrun expansion creates optimism. We need that." He represents Norwegian oil interests and workplaces. The oil industry has been complaining over the lack of oil policy over the last few years, and not least about the lack of a clear political signal about how the Norwegian oil industry should look. When we know today that the petroleum activity is employed – including co- current activities – approx. 200,000 people, it's a proportion that shows how important this industry is. In addition, it is filling an oil fund to secure pensions in the future, plus its annual contribution to a return that is decisive for the well-being of all of us – not to mention the economic challenges of many of the EU countries, Greece in particular and the PIIGS countries in general. This is something we in Norway can almost allow ourselves to ignore, based on taxes and other revenues from oil business. It is therefore a paradox that strong forces in the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are opponents of the further expansion of the oil industry in other parts of the country. When the representative Serigstad Valen in his article almost glarififies SV's resistance to the petroleum industry, he should ask himself why the same industry and the additional organisations describe SV's petroleum policy as almost catastrophic for the industry. But when it comes to Gudrun, it makes sense to give a clear signal, and it is the Advance Party that is very pleased. Norway had long been third on the list of the world's largest oil exporters, just turned off Saudi Arabia and Russia. But after the sharp fall in oil production in recent years, we have fallen down on the list. Therefore, it is crucial for the gradual conversion of oil industry to review that we have a tail production that ensures that we get the most out of the resources on the bottom of the sea, through careful and appropriate access and development of oil and gas resources. Unfortunately, I'm not sure that the red-green government will take care of it, but I'm going to get up to 200,000 jobs in a knowledge industry the whole world economy depends on. But today we celebrate that the clear signal for Gudrun is given, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1763	The representative of Skumsvoll's well-prepared contributions clearly shows how pointless debates in the staging room here can sometimes be when you read out what you have prepared in advance, without listening to what the counter-debateers say in the previous article. And as an opposition politician, it is probably very easy to construct contexts where Norwegian oil replaces coal power in Europe – which Skumsvoll was in it – and where opening up in Lofoten itself will be good for the climate challenges. But I notice that the representative Skumsvoll and the representative Grimstad do not at any time address the points for which I actually attacked the Progress Party, namely the historical reluctance to allow oil receipts on Norwegian pedestals to fall to the community, a policy that was so dominant for many years in the history of the Progress Party that it would be preferable to vote against the expansion of fields, for example. Sleipner, the neighbour of Gudrun. It was more important to vote against it than to have a high share. The representative, Meling, is accusing SV of double communication. SV is on the same line now that we've been doing for many years, and it's for a responsible management of Norwegian high-resource socket. Here SV, Right and Advance Party have done a common cause in the past, e.g. in the form of a note in the treatment of the previous notification of petroleum, two periods ago. A much more serious feature of double communication is the incoherence between the persistent criticism of the government's lack of action in the climate field, for which they accuse us, and the violent pressure of the Right to open vulnerable areas for oil extraction. The fact that the two right parts of the Stortinget are not willing to accept at all a relationship between Norwegian petroleum activity and climate cannot mean that the moderate production of oil and a moderate rate of extraction from the SV part is illogical in any way. I asked myself if the representative Grimstad heard my post. There was no glorification of SV's resistance to anything. The only resistance I referred to in my post was a case of the Progress Party and SV came together about, namely the proposal to postpone Sleipner West. But it's probably an example that the posts in this room aren't necessarily meant to be each other, but maybe as much as the voters in the home state and the cameras in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1774	For the sake of order, the President will only draw attention to the fact that we are discussing a unanimous attitude to build up Gudrun.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1777	It should really be unnecessary to have such a debate when a joint committee is behind this project. I would assume that when a committee is behind an oil and gas project, it is because we think it makes sense for Norway to extract more oil and gas than what you are doing today. If not, a party like SV should have voted against this project. They don't. However, the representative, Serigstad Valen, was able to express in this Chamber that he saw the debates as 'insensitive' because some representatives promote their views without taking into account the Serigstad Valen himself thought. Well, let me point out to myself that the signal given by the representative Serigstad Valen in this Chamber is something quite different from what the representative Serigstad Valen himself says in the committee position. It is more problematic than the fact that an opposition politician disagrees with the representative Serigstad Valen in his arguments. Because if you're actually going to be able to trust what a politician says, then that politician has to say the same thing in a committee position as what he says in the debate afterwards. The signals, on the other hand, are very contradictory. The challenge presented by the representative Serigstad Valen to the Progress Party, and to the right, is that we believe that the oil and gas business in Norway is sensible from a climate point of view. The representative Serigstad Valen believes that this is not the case. It must be a prerequisite for the representative Serigstad Valen that people would either not use energy if Norway did not extract oil or gas, or that the capital that goes to Norwegian base would automatically go to investments in renewable energy. I think both of these assumptions would be wrong for the representative Serigstad Valen. Because we know that the capital invested on a Norwegian base is not driven by charitable thoughts, but is driven by getting a return on that capital. The extraction of oil and gas is not prohibited, coal is not prohibited, renewable energy production is not prohibited – ergo the capital will go to the investment for which it is the best return, depending on the framework conditions in individual countries around the world. And then it's so simple: if the representative Serigstad Valen thinks you shouldn't extract oil and gas on a Norwegian base, where does he think that capital is going? I think all the investors would say that it goes where you get the best returns. It would then have gone to oil and gas projects outside the borders of Norway. It would not have gone to renewable energy projects in Norway. If less investment is made in oil and gas activities in Norway and the demand for energy is maintained, this means that either more oil and gas production would be achieved in other countries, or probably more investment in the production of what is the marginal energy producer in the northern European market, namely coal. It is not that if you just cut out Norwegian oil and gas investments, it automatically pop up windmills that replace this. That's not the case. Therefore, in terms of world energy needs to be met, maintaining and increasing Norwegian oil and gas production is more sensible in a short and medium-term perspective than increasing the consumption of coal. It also says the forecasts of the International Energy Agency, even in their climate scenarios. It's coal you have to replace, and then you have to increase the production of oil and gas over the next 20 years. That SV does not like it is okay, but the fact is nevertheless undisputed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1788	Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1792	I understand that the Progress Party is uncomfortable that, first of all, there is a connection between our own petroleum activity and the climate, and that, second, it is possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. In the world of the Progress Party, it's like either you have to go in to open everything, or you're a dogmatic oil opponent. SV has never proposed to close the Norwegian base overnight or vote against all oil extraction projects in Norway throughout history. But the Progress Party has to talk like that is the case, and pretend it's true, in order for its own rhetoric to make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1799	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4272]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1815	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1824	The representatives of the Right shall promote two proposals in this case. One is about the establishment of a web portal and the other about the non-discrimination of public and private providers of child protection services. As the rapporteur, I first present the Committee's position and the majority's opinions, and then the Christian People's Party's own opinions. With regard to the proposal for a separate child protection service web-portal, the majority of the Committee considers that there is no appropriate instrument for improving the quality of child protection services. The relevant actors have sufficient access to other information to enable the development of such an offer not to correspond to the use of resources. With regard to the proposal on non-discrimination between private and public actors, a single committee is fortunately concerned that diversity in the child protection sector is important. However, the majority of the Committee considers it important to distinguish between private commercial operators on the one hand and private non-profit-based private operators on the other. Consequently, the majority of the Committee does not support the proposal. This is also a central point for the Christian People's Party. The different actors are different, they have different qualities, and they operate on different premises. For the Christian People's Party, this is about the role and place of the ideal actors in society. It's about what kind of Norway we want, what kind of society we want to be. Non-profit institutions, non-profit institutions, have had and continue to play a fundamental role in the development of the Norwegian welfare society. Historically, they have been pioneers who have shown the way for what has later become natural tasks for the welfare community, which we all take for granted. There were engaged people, who saw suffering, and who cared. It was warm hands that cared for. They have constantly taken on board those groups for which the community has not taken good care of, has not had an offer, and they have developed new offers. They have been and continue to be critically corrective to public activities, new roads, new work on crime and new treatment methods. It was voluntary that started the welfare society, and they continue to play a major role in the welfare society. It is hardly possible to imagine the Norwegian welfare society without these actors. They represent Community values that are one of the cornerstones of the Norwegian welfare society. Without these actors, without the volunteering and idealism behind these actors, we would have had another Norway. That's why it's so important for me to get underlined, even so the Council of State and the government hears it, that it must also be an objective in itself to take care of these actors. It is therefore not just a good idea to say that we should use them only when we do not have enough supply in the public sector. They have a value in themselves. If we choose over time to squander these actors, which in the long term is the result of today's politics, we will go towards a colder society. The situation of the non-profit organisations is precarious. HSH has established that if today's development continues, we can see in five to ten years a situation in which the ideal actors are actually out of the tasks they contribute to the welfare society today. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of ideal actors having to cut down on the operation of institutions because they are being pushed out of the market – not because they are not doing badly, but because, as they say, they are in many ways being squandered between on the one hand, the attitude that public authorities should take care of everything themselves, and on the other hand, economic rationality, tendering and competitive thinking – a market thinking that is spreading to all areas of society. Both of these attitudes threaten volunteering today, and we get clear messages from all organisations operating in both child protection and other areas. In fact, today's policy is killing idealism and the ideal institutions in welfare production in Norway. It will give us a completely different Norway. Therefore, it is important to take seriously that the conditions of the non-profit organisations need to be changed, and that Christian People's Party has also inserted into the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1847	We agree that it is in everyone's interest to take care of and continue the knowledge we have in the child protection sector. Proposals will introduce an Internet-based service portal to provide an overview and a basis for comparison between offers in the child protection sector. The majority share the assessments of the Council of State expressed in a letter to the Committee dated 7 May. What is expressed is that it is completely unclear what benefit this portal can actually provide, and that the portal can only become a cost-effective bureaucratic link. We need money for more important things in child protection. If the portal has any purpose, it must be updated at all times. We think it'll be a demanding exercise, of which we can't quite see the effect. The working party is absolutely committed to those assessments and believes that the quality of child protection needs to be strengthened, but that there are other instruments that are more appropriate. And so: I think it's about to be time to kill the myth that the right-hand side all the time grows that we work against private institutions at all times. Yes, we clearly believe that predictability and long-termity can best be ensured by public and non-profit organisations, but we constantly express that the private commercial will always be an important supplement. In the comments on this matter, we have also supported the Council of State in its assessments that not all private institutions can be seen together. Many people are doing very well, but we also have examples of the opposite, which I also think should be able to accept and admit. It is a fact that many NPISHs and non-profit institutions have had a fundamental role in building the welfare society, as the rapporteur put it, not least in the area of child protection. But they're still going to have that. We should be very grateful for all the idealists who have worked, and still work, in child protection. They have a lot of knowledge and competence, and not least a high level of care, which we certainly should not underestimate. We must have great respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1867	There are two days left until the Great Government disintegrates. I set myself up to sum up a little bit what this committee has basically debated in the last few months, and it's either been a father's quota, or it's been the situation in child protection. There is a great deal of opposition that has triggered this debate, with various document eight proposals. So there has not been a single case from the Council of State in terms of improving the situation of child protection, but there have been signs that there will be issues. In any case, I would like to say that the Progress Party is looking forward to a hearing in the Committee during the autumn. I would like to thank the proposers for the proposal that is now on the table here. It is an incredibly important proposal for equalising public and private providers of child protection services. We know that when the state has to go in and take children out of home, it's important that the children get a good offer. They must have the very best offer they can get. We know that children are different, children have different needs, and then they also need different treatment, different help. Some people need foster families, others need institutional settings. There has to be a diversity in the institutions we have today. We often find that Bufetat is located in the places available, and they decide which places to send the children to. If the municipalities then say that they prefer to send the child to this institution because it is important, that it is the best offer in relation to what the child needs, they often feel that they get a no from Buffetat because they want to use the ones that are actually approved and that they think are the best. Therefore, it is important that we have a great diversity of both private and public institutions. Unlike the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party does not see any difference whether there are non-profit private organisations or commercial private institutions. I want to warn you that you are now going to limit private providers because they are not going to be allowed to make money. The most important thing must be that private institutions are supervised, that laws and regulations are observed with regard to the agreements they have concluded with those who need it. That is why the Progress Party is going to support the proposers in terms of equalising private and public providers, but we are also going to support the proposal to have a web portal. We can see that the Council of State has a point that there is already a website today. But we think it is important that municipalities have access to such a web portal, so that they can have a pool where they choose the offers they feel are best for the kids. It was a little fun today. I read a reading article that was in the Friend of the Fatherland yesterday, from a representative from the Workers' Party. It said: ‘One of the most important tasks we have as a community and society is to help everyone have a childhood free from violence, abuse and poverty.’ It is important that we have child protection that works, and then it is about ‘the political will to act’, writes the Labour Party’s representative. They now expect a follow-up from the Council of State Audun Light Hill to make children's everyday life better. That's why I hope, at the tame of this post, that the Council of State can take these signals. It is time for us to meet in the autumn, and in the context of the state budget, that there are proposals from the government that will give children protection a better daily life, so we will not see any more examples of children out there every day failing because they do not receive the follow-up they are entitled to. I have to say I'm worried about the summer that we're going to meet now, because we know that there are very many small municipalities that haven't taken the promise that the government kind of signaled that they should do, with regard to hiring more people in child protection. We know that when the holiday in the small municipalities is due to end, there are many children who suffer, the children who really need help. I am addressing the minority proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1894	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1897	For the right, diversity in the child protection sector is important. Different environments of competence linked to different institutions and actions represent diversity. We want this diversity in the Right to ensure the best possible. This means that we also need to facilitate the framework conditions in such a way that all actors operate in the market on equal terms, with equal requirements and with equal rights. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. The government does not want to impose the same requirements on the public operators as they make to the private ones. Today, private child protection is characterised by professional competence and diversity, driven by idealists with faith in their own activities and with the desire to contribute to a good life for children and young people. Today, we see that state child protection has a number of advantages, and that there are distortions of competition in their favour. It contributes to the restriction and winding-up of private and institutional activities. The right is very concerned that we are losing a number of professional directions and methodological approaches that are represented only in private. With the current tendering system and with political implications of limiting the use of private actors, we are at risk of losing valuable knowledge, competence and experience in areas where the need for a diverse approach is precisely required in order to provide a sound and good offer. It is a pity that ideological leaders should go ahead of offers that work well. I know that the Council of State Lighthouse has heard several times from children in Child Protection, among other things. in child protection professionals, who – as I understand it – have said themselves that there is a lot of good child protection work in private child protection, because there are people who care, there are people who go in with the soul to help these children. It's a flexibility and a liberalism that we can't find at all in the state child protection. Then it is a pity that we have a government that does not listen to these children but puts political ideology ahead of results and in front of children. It is in this context that the Right promotes proposals for effective non-discrimination between public and private operators in this market. It is by model from Denmark, where they have established an order portal, which is very successful, that we propose a similar scheme in Norway. An offer portal will provide better accessibility in communication, and there will be a positive contribution, so that child protection has the ability to provide places at the right time, at the right price and not least in the right place. We record that the government parties – and unfortunately also the Christian People's Party – want to pursue a policy in which one is sceptical about the testing of alternatives to today's systems. That's very bad, because the situation in child protection today is precarious. It should indicate a greater breadth in the testing of possible improvements, especially when we see that it works so well in one of our neighbouring countries. A loss of many child-restraint services has meant a total decrease in the supply, and there are few indications that today’s system will lead to greater diversity in parts of child-restraint. The central concern of child protection policy must be to ensure the widest possible diversity of well-accessible services, and the concern for children must be central in this picture. For the right, it's completely uninteresting who owns it and runs the child-rescue institutions. It is very disappointing that because of the ideological sky posters that SV has especially in the case of private actors, they also meet the private actors in child protection with some cold shoulders. It's a shame, because they work day and night for these kids to have a better life. And as the children themselves have said to me, it's just to look at the tour within child protection; within the state they go home after a day at work, but within the private they live there, they're there with us for up to a week at a time. It has a lot to say for the kids, because that means security and they get a sense that someone cares about them. Therefore, it is a pity that the government continues to want such discrimination against private individuals, especially because there is only one loser in the government's child protection project, and that is the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1916	Not surprisingly, the Right Party and the Progress Party propose to give private actors greater space in the child protection sector; we experience that in many areas. Nor is it particularly surprising that SV is skeptical about this proposal. To be able to shop for child-resistance services via an Internet portal is, in our view, hardly the way to provide quality services to children in a difficult situation. Furthermore, it is not the case today that private institutions are excluded from offering their competences before child protection. Private non-profit organisations have our own and are still important and serious actors in the field. Private commercial institutions are and will be a complement to state institutions and institutions run by non-profit institutions. An overriding principle in working with the children involved is that they should experience the most possible long-termity in their life situation and thus greater security. In order to achieve this, planning and governance are needed, and this is done by the state today by purchasing institutional sites through Bufatat. On Buffetat's homepages, you will find a further overview of all approved child protection institutions in the country, which, in my view, meets the need that the Right Party and the Advance Party will meet through the new web portal. In short, I cannot see that a market-driven provision of child protection should be able to provide more robust frameworks than one has today. Now one should not underestimate that there are challenges in the sector, and that a long time has to evaluate what is going on in order to provide the best possible supply, but I do not believe that the Right and Advance Party have found the appropriate medicine through this. In the long term, the aim must be to reduce the use of institutional facilities, either by increasing the use of help in the home or by using foster homes. The need for institutional places may always be present, but the forces should be used more to reduce their number rather than to discuss the principle of competition. I would also like to add a few comments to the previous article, where it was made in a way that it is the private non-profit organisations that can provide warmth and care for the children. I want to say that for a long time in my job in civil society, I have had a lot of cooperation with public-run child protection institutions, and I cannot get enough praise for the job they're adding there. There's genuine warmth and care, even if they're paid by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1929	The representatives of Hofstad Helleland, Thommessen, Sjøli and Skovholt Gitmark ask the government to design an Internet-based service portal to provide an overview and basis for comparison between the institutional services provided in the field of child protection, in order to make it possible to choose the best offer for individual children to be placed outside the home. The most important thing in terms of child protection is to ensure that the child is offered the best possible range of offers. Today, information is available on all approved child protection institutions through Bufetat’s websites. In addition, there is an overview of all public institutions, including: with information on the type of institution. I believe that the overviews available there provide the municipalities and Bufetat with good information in order to ensure a good and adapted offer for the children. However, Bufetate is continuously working to improve the existing overviews. I am doubtful whether the development of a new web-portal in itself will help to improve the quality of child protection services. I think it is also other instruments that should be given priority in order to improve the quality of state child protection. Representatives also ask the government for full non-discrimination between public and private actors in the field of child protection. Representatives are concerned that today’s system, which prioritises state and private non-profit activities, leads to the loss of valuable knowledge, skills and experience. This government does not want to contribute to the increased privatisation or commercialisation of basic welfare services. It also applies in the field of child protection. We want professionally good child protection where services are less to be provided by commercial actors. So that doesn't mean that we're opposed to a big private feature of child protection, but that we're setting a limit between the ideal and the commercial. State funds shall primarily benefit children through good services, not in the form of profits and dividends to commercial operators. By increasing the use of capacity in state institutions, we will also reduce the cost of the agency. When the State does not have sufficient capacity and has to buy places from private operators, we have chosen to clearly tell Buffetat that ideal operators should be given priority over commercial ones. But it's not ideological skyscrapers to say that we're going to exploit the capacity we have in the public apparatus. On the contrary, it is rational and good economics to use the capacity for which we have to pay before we buy from external contributors. That's the opposite, that you always have to open up to buy private places, which are a very ideological position, and which are not adapted to the actual challenges we face in the protection of the state's children. So when we do these priorities, we say that this is true if the quality of the offer is the same and that the ideal players are competitive at price. Commercial and private institutions will continue to be complementary to state institutions and institutions run by non-profit actors. Therefore, in this context, we look at the possibilities of imposing restrictions on the withdrawal of dividends and other values in the child protection sector because the government's aim is to ensure that government funding for child protection benefits children and does not benefit private child protection actors. Then I would also like to make a comment to the representative of Hofstad Helleland, who said in his speech that the private could provide ‘a flexibility and a liberalism that we do not find at all in the state child protection’. It's a statement that I want to distance from. So it's not like there's a private child protection with care for the children and a cold public child protection where people don't care about the children. On the contrary, there is quality in child protection, and almost everyone who works there cares for and feels responsible for these children – there are both public and private institutions of very high quality, and there are, of course, unfortunately, institutions, both public and private, which do not have the quality we want. And we've seen examples of both. A competition for where there are most warm hands, I think it's a very bad signal to send to all those who every day do a fantastic job for our most vulnerable children, whether they're on private or public payrolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1948	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1952	Now the ideological differences emerge, at least the difference in the views of the Progress Party and the SV on the use of private institutions. For the Advancement Party, the most important thing is that those who need help, whether they are at home, in kindergarten or in child protection, receive the help they need, and the help they need. If that help comes from a private hand or a public hand, it doesn't matter. But the SV's aversion to private actors is reflected in the post that the Council of State had here. You can't trust that the government actually needs the private institutions as well. I would then like to ask the Council of State: what are the requirements of the public institutions? Can they get as much money as they want, and run as they want? Is SV going to have the same strict control over the public institutions as with the private ones they want to liquidate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1963	A claim doesn't become any more true by being repeated many times, nor in this hall. This government has nothing against private actors in child protection. On the contrary, we suggest that there will still be a large proportion of private actors in the future. But unlike the Progress Party, we distinguish between private and non-profit and commercial, because we think it is particularly important to strengthen the ideal role in this sector, in addition to exploiting the capacity we already have. If I could ask a counter-question, I would have challenged the representative on what is rational and sensible by not exploiting the capacity that actually exists in public institutions, for which we in any case pay. Then my conclusion is that here it's the right side that has significant ideological skyscrapers on it in the debate. They want to introduce a regime in which we have to double the costs of something that we already have expenditure on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1970	First, I just have to clarify a little in connection with what the Council said in its previous article. When I referred to the red and flexible private child protection, it was because of the messages that these child protection children have given me, and that I have also been told that the Council of State has been told. I've visited a lot of public child protection institutions, and it's doing a great job. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with that. Everyone values the job done there. However, when it is said that an evaluation should be carried out, and we are expecting a report to come in 2012. Does this mean that all good initiatives, actions and proposals that come before that time are rejected by the government? And can the Council of State also answer what everyone in child protection is asking: what will happen to child protection from the government in the next two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1979	That was a big question. Let me say as much as I can, in 1 minute. I am pleased that we agree that this is also quality in public institutions. The child protection professionals I think a lot of people should talk to. They have given me strong and honest and direct feedback, which is very important. I should also add that one of the clear messages I have received from Child Protection professionals is that very many people experience unstable living conditions, because we have a regime with relatively frequent bidding rounds. It also shows that the element of competition is the theme of an important debate, on which I will also challenge the right side to participate. The evaluation we have now launched of the Administrative Reform does not, of course, mean that things will not happen in the state child protection until then. On the contrary, we now have the first full pressure that the agency will be able to maintain the goals of the Stortinget regarding both professional governance and financial management this year, and then in the state budget we will come back to the measures that we now need, both at state and municipal level.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e1995	The Norwegian Women's Sanity Association, the Salvation Army, the Church's Social Service and other non-profit institutions represent in many ways the beginning of much of the Norwegian welfare society, and they continue to represent an important value through idealism and volunteering. The first question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that the environments and actors represent a quality of Norwegian society that actually has a self-esteem that we have to take care of? The second question is: how does the Council of State view that almost all of these organisations and actors say that if today's policy continues, linked to both public tenders and public priorities, these actors will disappear in five to ten years, and many institutions will be closed down in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2004	Firstly, I agree with the description of the importance of volunteering, not only in the historical perspective, but also today, because we often see that voluntary and private organisations first develop alternative methods and when new groups, like the public sector, are able to catch up. So both in terms of flexibility and creativity in the welfare state, they are voluntary important. I don't think the private elements of child protection are going to go away. They represent a very large proportion of the actors, particularly in the case of institutions. But we need in the next few years both to exploit the capacity we actually have and pay for in public, and to have a professional turn against less institutional use, because it's good for children. But given the two premises, it's my policy to give priority to the ideal actors. I am absolutely convinced that they will also have a central place in the protection of the children of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2011	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2014	Responsibility: When I hear the word «child protection», I quickly think of the word «responsibility». It is up to all of us to take responsibility for children who parents do not have the power to give a good childhood. This responsibility applies to us both as individuals, as neighbours, relatives and colleagues, and all those who meet children through their jobs, nurses, dentists, kindergarten staff and teachers. Everyone has a responsibility to see the children and to help those living in vulnerable families. As a society, it is our duty to ensure that children and young people receive full care and good growth conditions. There is no doubt that child protection has a long way to go before we can say that the problems they are asked to do are solved in a good enough way. But I am pleased that the government has taken this situation very seriously and has taken action to clean up child protection. I believe that all proposals must be on the table in such a clean-up, but I also believe that it is important to get a good understanding of reality and an overview of the situation before we implement completely new systems and plans. The need for institutional settings will be reduced as more children will be placed in foster homes in the future. I also want to use this opportunity to say that all those who take on the role of foster parents are doing a very important job, for society and especially for those children who, by getting safe, stable and good families, get help to master their lives and the ability to develop as a human being. The foster homes offer the most individual follow-up possible. I therefore wish to welcome a development with fewer institutions and more foster homes. In the discussion about private and public providers of child protection services, I am concerned that we do not forget the most basic, namely what the institution can offer the child. That is what should determine where the child is to be placed. Due to the different needs of different children, there should be a diversity in the provision of child protection services. As the majority point out in the vote, private providers, both commercial and ideal, will also complement the public offer in the future. In my view, the non-profit organisations and non-profit institutions have their own value in providing a wider range of services, and I would like to stress for my part that in the process of further developing child protection, the framework conditions must be organised so that we can maintain them in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2025	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2028	I think it's very good for the Right Party that the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland made up his post in line with the Council, because it's a very serious claim that the warmth and care of child protection are within private child protection, not in public. I do not think it is a holiday greeting to send to child protection workers in the public sector. I believe that this debate has revealed one thing, and that is that we in the government parties have far more tolerance for private child protection than what the Right has for public child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2036	Let me first say that I would also stress that there are competent and committed employees both in the public, in the ideals and in the commercial institutions of child protection. I would also like to say about a problem which is not the main issue, but which is an underlying issue, that in terms of the trend towards less use of institutional space, I am still happy to meet someone in the field of child protection who thinks that this trend should continue even further. On the contrary, I meet more and more people who warn that there has been a professional revolution in that direction. It may have gone far enough, and some people think it should be reversed somewhat. We can do that another time. There is no doubt that we need strong public child protection and that we need the ideal actors in child protection. We also need the commercial actors in child protection. We may have a discussion about whether that is, in principle, desirable with commercial actors in child protection. It's an interesting discussion that I like to join, but the reality is that we're dependent on commercial players, and that they can offer in some areas, especially in the most demanding cases. They represent a flexibility in child protection that child protection is likely to depend on for many decades to come. The way child protection is put together today, it's much more important to discuss who's going in and how we're going to build up capacity than to discuss who's going out of child protection services. I think the Council of State should notice that. Otherwise, I am very pleased that the Council of State also, in its reply to my reply, seems to recognise the self-value of the ideal actors in the field of child protection. I notice that the Progress Party and the Right in its articles say that it doesn't matter who delivers the services. It is a powerful simplification, because then one can be in danger of eradicating idealism and volunteering as an actor in the welfare community. So the Council of State says that we can't go outside the public if we haven't used up the capacity of the public first. I believe that this is a powerful simplification, among other things: because what is happening in the different regions is that Bufetat enters and takes over private institutions — increasingly new institutions are taken over by Bufetat. Then comes the discussion of capacity utilisation in another light. A long-term policy is required. The Council of State says that he believes that the ideal actors will be there for many years to come, but the feedback from them is unison. I challenge the Council of State to call them to a meeting and ask them about the understanding of reality, because they are aware that they are about to be wiped out with today's framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2051	Now I'm not going to finish the debate here, but I have to comment on the statements of the Council of State and of the representative Gunn Olsen of the Workers' Party. I guess you can say that the government is pretty much in the back of the child protection debate. They're very in the back, because there's no initiative. They see that the opposition makes various proposals for action to improve child protection. It also makes them cut if there's anything to take care of what the opposition has come with. I have to make it clear once and for all that what I referred to instead was children in child protection, who were well-known in child protection, who have gone out and into various institutions, who referred to private child protection in the way they did. Then I hope it's clear. It's no wonder that the opposition reacts the way it does when we discuss child protection in the hall here. This is because the government has been in charge for five years now, and the crisis is reinforced for every day that goes. State councils after state councils go out and confirm that we have child protection in crisis, and then nothing happens. The only thing we can hear from this government is that they are evaluating, they are going to be researched, they are going to look at the situation, but when good proposals for action are being made in this Chamber, they are going to vote against, and the argument is starting to get pretty thin. The responsible State Council has now been in office for one year, and not many initiatives have taken place during this year. This year has been marked by massive newspaper and media headlines about the critical situation in child protection, about crime, about children who are subjected to serious care failure, and where they fail the children for which the state is responsible. It must be quite embarrassing to come here week after week and discuss child protection in Stortinget, and reject every proposal. We in the Right are trying to be constructive. That's why we're promoting suggestions for action, we're visiting the state child protection, we're talking to professionals, we're talking to children, and we're visiting private child protection and taking recordings here. We're trying to make things better, we're trying to do something about the crisis in child protection, but we're going to meet with government rejection. It's pretty daunting, and it hits, as we all know, just the kids who need a good child protection the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2062	Equality is important, and equal treatment between private and public providers in the field of child protection is important. That's at least the rhetoric, and that's the rhetoric we hear now in the Stortingen. All of the games say this. Everyone from the outside also says that this is important, and sees that it's the only way we can achieve our goal. But we see a distinction. We get feedback from private institutions and so-called non-profit institutions that they feel differently treated in relation to public institutions. There is even a third of the distinction – now one actually distinguishes between public, private and non-profit institutions. This is not something we can live with. We should change this, and that's exactly what the minority in this room wants. We have heard the argument that someone can make money to sell services to the state and municipalities – you can make money on children, you can make money on children who really need help, and then we think automatically, within child protection and kindergartens. Yes, many make money on children. Doctors make money on sick children. Doctors are taking dividends, but no one is discussing whether we should only have public doctors. But we're overseeing the games. We're checking if the doctors are doing the job they're going to do to the children. I believe it is important that we have an offer for all children who need help in kindergarten or child protection, whether it be private ideals, non-profit or public institutions. But we need an offer. Now we see that the government thanks everyone for the help, cancels the agreements, and points out that you want foster homes. I think that's good. But at the same time, we see that the queues are increasing, that children are standing out there and need hurt help. The offer must be the most important one. There is also a need for good child protection supervision, and they must check all institutions in the field of child protection, in terms of both non-profit and public institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2073	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4272]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2089	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2098	Initially, I would like to congratulate the representatives of the Right that with the proposal they focus on the supervisory arrangements for the protection of children. When a child is moved out of his home, whether it's for living in another home or an institution, it's a serious intervention in the child's life, it's a major upheaval in the child's life, and it brings enormous responsibility to the authorities that carry it out. It is essential that the child is provided with the best possible care, and it is absolutely essential that supervision be exercised to ensure that it does. It is a minority – the Christian People’s Party, the Right and the Advance Party – who support the motion in the vote. However, precisely because taking care is such a serious intervention, it is serious when today's supervisory arrangements do not actually work well enough. We cannot live with the fact that the legal certainty of children is not guaranteed, and that we risk that some children are not doing well after taking over care as much as they have done. That is simply not acceptable. I am very pleased that an overall committee in the vote recognises that there are major child protection deficiencies and challenges. An overall committee considers that there is a need to strengthen child protection and step up efforts. I am also pleased that an overall committee notes the following: ‘The Committee considers that this underlines the need for the review of the supervisory arrangements requested by the proposers.’; That is what a unanimous committee has said. I am pleased, and I welcome the response of the Council of State and the review of the supervisory system and the feedback to the Stortinget on that. Nevertheless, it remains clear in the position that government parties and opposition have a completely different approach to the challenges of child protection, we have different responses to the challenges of child protection and different levels of ambition. The government parties do not agree to establish that we need an escalation to ensure full coverage. We have another child protection issue left with the question: What is the ambition of the government parties for child protection? The government is responsible for child protection – which is responsible – but it is impossible to see what you intend to do with that responsibility. Governments have stated that there is a critical situation in municipal child protection. The diagnosis has been made, but medicine has not been given, medicine has not been prescribed and medicine has not been ordered. Is full child protection really too high an ambition? Is it really too ambitious to say that we should have supervisors for all children in foster homes? We're going to have a proper supervision for everyone who's in the institution. Is it too expensive? Or is there anyone in the hall who might be familiar with having a lower ambition? We got full babysitting in 2009. We have notified, through an elder settlement, full hospital coverage in 2015. The government's question is: When are we going to get full child protection, where all children who need and require it also have supervisors? Earlier today, we've been discussing the municipal proposition for three and a half hours. For three and a half hours we have been shown that the government parties do not have municipal politicians who are concerned with child protection. It's a matter of priority. It is a matter of political will. Full child-resistance coverage means enough capacity at all stages. That means that all the children that the authorities have actually gone in and taken over the responsibility for, we get a supervision that makes us know that we actually assume that responsibility. No one here would take responsibility for a child, or put a child into the world, who was not supervised afterwards to see that it actually was good, if we didn't care ourselves. So that's what child protection does to some of the children that they've placed in foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2122	The proposal of the representative on the review and strengthening of the supervisory regime for the protection of children is very important. The Council of State has also stated this in its letters to the Committee dated 10 May and 4 June. We were also confirmed during the hearing we had about the matter, how important it was. Yes, we had another opportunity to put child protection on the agenda. I think it's good. This committee has many debates on children that need our attention and care. It has never given any particular political status to be a child protection policy – not in the municipality, not in the county when they were responsible for the second line service, nor on the Stortinget. That is why I am very pleased that child protection is so often on the political agenda of our committee. Because we have the unique opportunity to speak the case of children's protection. I think it is good for the opposition to promote so many proposals on child protection, but we do not solve the major crisis in child protection just by proposing representatives. We actually have to do that through nine-time jobs and through the budgets that the government is presenting. It's very easy to forget the focus we actually had on child protection in the 2010 budget. So let's see if we got the results that we gave the leaders for. But the supervisory system is a very important piece, and I think it is very good that the entire committee agrees that that system is not working well enough. Good supervision is an important guarantee that vulnerable children’s needs and safety are met. The Council of State, by letter to the Committee, has made us aware of the measures already in place and that efforts to improve the supervisory system should continue. Of course, we in the Workers' Party have great confidence in being done. We know, once again, that there are major challenges to child protection, and that it is essential that child protection has sufficient competence and resources to ensure that the most vulnerable children in society get the help they need. Both in the Workers' Party and in the other government parties, we are very clear that there is a need to strengthen child protection and step up efforts, and we actually intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2133	The previous post was so touching, to repeat it, among other things. Arild Stokkan-Grande has said before. We have to give some credit to each other, and that is why I would like to congratulate Gunn Olsen, the representative of the fine piece that she made here, on the care that the government parties now show that they have for child protection. And this promises well. It's just about. Three months until the state budget is due, and we are pleased to see that child protection there is strengthened. I really hope that the Council of State Lighthouses will get through to the government for that. When we read the position in this matter – and I hope that the Council of State actually does – we see that an overall committee agrees with the challenge of child protection. The Committee stresses the current situation in the field of child protection, the major shortcomings and challenges and the importance of child protection as having the necessary resources and competences to ensure the most vulnerable in our society. I hope that when there's an overall committee that's behind this, it's very heavy. The proposal currently under consideration for a review and strengthening the system of child protection supervision is, in fact, one of the most important proposals under consideration, also in the light of the proposal before today. When we know that the state has to go in and take over the care of children and relocate them to either private or public institutions, foster homes – or other services – it is important to supervise them. The most important thing is to have a supervision that works. And when we – it was probably December last year – got a report from the National Audit Office showing that one out of three children don't get the supervision they're entitled to, it's really worrying. We also know that many municipalities are struggling to get sufficient supervisors, so that very many children do not get the supervision they are entitled to. It's worrying. I would recommend everyone to read the Children’s Ombudsman’s report ‘Mightless supervision’, which was simply a frightening reading. It's been released this year, and we have to take this with us and do something with it. At least that's for sure. We read about a child who says, ‘The county is so bad at following up. Who fines the Countess?" And who oversees the state oversight that is now to take over this? In this context, the Progress Party is also pleased that there is now a state oversight to carry out these inspections, but nevertheless we see that we have to let it work. We hope that it works well, but it is important to put in place proper capacity for the supervisors we have. Then we had a hearing on this matter. It's great when children who have actually been in and out of different institutions and foster homes tell from their place of stand. I think we all have to listen to the recordings that come from them, because they're the ones who really know it on the body. It's not that easy for us to know all about this, but we're going to listen to the kids who have actually experienced it. One of the recordings that came from one of the girls at the hearing was the word ‘supervisor’. One might associate the ‘supervisor’ with the supervisor of persons who have been in prison and who have come out, so the girl very much wanted to be renamed ‘supervisor’ because it is a person whom the children should have confidence in. An supervisor shall be present for the children. It shall be the safety valve of the children and therefore it is important that the children have confidence in that person. Because it may be that someone is going to give a report or say something about not having that good, whether it's an institution or it's about foster parents, and then it's important that the person they're going to deal with has confidence. They actually have the right to choose who they should have as their supervisor, and I think it's also important that we take with us the recordings that are coming. That is why the Progress Party supports this proposal. I think it is important, as a joint committee has also said, that we have a review and a strengthening of the supervisory regime. I'm addressing the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2160	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2163	I would like to start my speech by thanking the case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party for a very good job in this matter, and I would also like to thank the government parties for their broad support for the Right's proposal, and not least for the fact that the government parties in the Stortinget share the Right's reality description and support our intention in the proposal. Figures from the county officials show that there is a great lack of supervisors and that many children with supervisors do not receive the supervision required by law. It is very worrying when reporting shows that municipalities lack supervisors for many children. The government itself refers to the supervision of child protection in the State budget. That's where they point out that the entire 5 pst. does not obtain the individual supervision of the institution for which they are required. In addition, it's all 10 pst. of the children under the responsibility of municipal child protection who have not been appointed supervisor. Given that these children are in a very vulnerable situation, often they are very vulnerable, this is unsustainable, and therefore it is also that the Right has promoted this proposal. There are cases of care failure in foster homes and institutions both with and without supervision. Supervisors shall have access to foster homes as often as necessary and supervision shall be arranged in such a way that the child can address any problems with the supervisor without the presence of the foster parents. It is important to provide for a sufficient number of supervisors and to develop a strategy for their recruitment and schooling. When the committee had a hearing on this matter, it was a rather special experience. There were very many good hearing bodies present, both from Change Fabriken, from the National Association for Children's Homes and from the Foster Homes Association. But there was especially a girl between 14 and 15 who had gone in and out of child protection since she was two years old, I think, who told us politicians what to do. What made a very strong impression on me was that this teenage girl told us big-time politicians about the supervisory system, a system in which someone should make sure that someone is doing well, that someone has to report to if someone is bad for you. However, the oversight system we have in Norway today is not based on trust. For the kids who are in the institution, the supervisor may experience sitting on the watchroom drinking coffee with those who work at the institution, then sticking in the room for a few minutes to hear a little about how things stand. Those who are in foster homes and have supervisors could tell that there were children who felt that the supervisor was sitting and drinking coffee with the foster parents. When the supervisor was on his way out of the house, they were asked if there was anything special they wanted to do. That's not how it should be. The supervisor shall be a person to whom the children can be notified if they are subjected to abuse, if there are any who are offensive to them, if there is anything they would like to address. Remember, here we're talking about children who don't necessarily have a close family, who don't have a mother and father to go to, a mother and a father to whom most other children can report if anything happens. It made a big impression on the whole committee. But it wasn't just this meeting: a few weeks ago, we met the countyman in the South Trondelag. He also told them that they had an unsustainable situation when it came to the supervision system, and that the countyer himself felt that there was not a system in which to do his job satisfactorily. We've heard this from so many people. That is why the Right is now promoting a proposal for a comprehensive review, so that we have a new supervisory system in place. Because here we do not take the responsibility that is incumbent upon us. We're going to take care of these kids, and we're going to have a surveillance where children can report from. You don't have that today. That is why I have great expectations of what the Council of State and the Government will do in this area, especially when voting against the proposal of the Right today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2182	A few days ago, we discussed here in this hall compensation scheme for people who had experienced child protection abuse. We've got a lot of rough revelations, and when you hear some of those stories, you feel like they've been taken out of another time. This must be in black and white, we see it as. But it is clear that a lot has happened in quite recent times, and a lot has happened to children of the same age as I was, when I was a child. What you think about when you hear about these revelations is, how in the world could this happen? Why was there no one who noticed anything? Why wasn't anyone there? And why didn't anyone hear? I've thought many times about what's going on in society today that we don't see and that we don't hear. Because things like this may happen in our society right now, but we don't know about them. Some of the things that concern me most in this particular area are just what the Right has rewritten in this Document No. The 8 proposal, that we're not good enough to supervise within child protection, and especially now, that we've gone more and more into foster families. That means we've decentralised the supervision. The old structures established around the institutions had a number of other types of monitoring of their seas, while this decentralisation of care through foster homes requires even more of the supervisory arrangements. So my best advice to the Council of States is that this is put at the top of the agenda. We in the Left have put forward many proposals on how to reorganise child protection. But this I think is the most acute. You can do something about it, no matter how you choose to reorganize child protection, and how you divide everything into square boxes. This is what is acute in child protection today, because we are not sure – we are not sure that things are not happening. Then there's something about the supervision and the relationship with children. Many have entered the word ‘trust’. Trust builds up. A child who has not been taken over by child protection, who lives in a normal family situation and experiences something terrible, has a network around him. It could be the rattling tanta or it's the father of the friend, the one who's going to talk to things about. Everyone has such a type of network. All children have it. But children who have been taken over by child protection often experience the disappearance of that network. The children have no such trust persons natural in the circle of friends, natural in the family circle. They've lost them. Therefore, it is particularly important that these receive a surveillance system, when you also know how important it is to build trust in the child before the child tells. All our knowledge of all the crimes that have been and that have been revealed is that many adults should have actually seen, many adults should have known. But kids don't like to tell me about it. Of course they don't. That's why it's extremely important that a person spends time building trust in the children, so that they also tell what they really don't want to tell someone who swings in to get a cup of coffee in new and new. So that trust has to be built up over time. It is a special role to be the supervisor in such a context. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal. My intense appeal to the Council of State is that he puts this at the top of the agenda, because this is the most acute. This could be the mistake we are making today that someone is wondering why we did not see when you get the claims in 20 years' time. This is what we really have to deal with, because this is about the trust of the children who are exposed because we have taken from them the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2199	The representatives of Hofstad Helleland, Thommessen and Sjøli will strengthen the implementation of the supervision of children in foster homes and with children residing in child protection institutions. I think it is good that these kinds of proposals come forward, because it contributes to a debate in which we can get more ideas on the table related to how we should strengthen the supervisory regime and child protection. These are things we are already working on in the Department, which I have explained in my letter to the Committee, and for which we in the Government share the Committee's commitment. All children shall have a supervisor. The supervisor shall ensure that the child is properly cared for in the foster home and that the child’s experiences and views are captured and communicated to the child protection service. The municipality has a statutory responsibility to recruit and appoint supervisors for children in foster homes. The half-yearly reports of the municipalities show that the municipalities were jointly responsible for the supervision of 6,971 children by 31 December 2009. Reports from the municipalities show that 88,6 pst. of these foetuses had supervisors. When a child has recently moved to a foster home, the municipality is not always able to get a supervisor immediately. There is one reason the statistics show that there is no 100 pst. coverage of supervisors in all municipalities. The municipality is also responsible for emergency placements of children in emergency shelters. These children also have the right to have the supervisor appointed. However, the situation is that acute placements are often so short-lived that the municipality cannot appoint the supervisor. However, I believe that municipalities need to make better efforts to recruit enough supervisors. All children shall be subject to supervision in accordance with the requirements of the law. In the supervision of the municipalities, the county therefore also emphasises whether the municipality has appointed a sufficient number of supervisors. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has also discussed with KS how municipalities can improve the recruitment of more supervisors and the dialogue with KS if it becomes important in the future. We will also send letters to the municipalities of the country, where we point out the statutory responsibility for appointing the supervisor to all children in foster homes. In this context, I have also noted the Committee's views on the supervisory system and the proposals that the Committee is making to improve the system, and it is natural for me to look at them in that process. The county supervises all child protection institutions. I believe that the county has a good overview of the institutions they are required to supervise. I would like to stress that today's requirements for the number of supervision are minimum requirements. Where the situation of an institution so warrants, the county shall carry out supervisory visits in addition to that requirement. Some offices therefore also carry out more oversight visits than are required by law. I do not believe that there is any basis for imposing requirements on several unannounced oversight visits. One of the county's most important supervisory tasks, however, is to talk to the children, and one of my concerns is that we all too often hear about supervision where the children themselves have not been heard. Therefore, it is more important that the supervisory board should add up to conversations with the children than that the visits should be unannounced. The State’s health oversight took over the overall responsibility for this part of the surveillance in winter. My clearest message and order to the Health Authority in this regard was to make sure that the supervision will be completed without the children being heard themselves. Health care now works on developing materials that can help the community become even better at talking to the children. I agree with the committee that it is essential to provide the municipalities with sufficient resources to help vulnerable children. As Stortinget is aware, we closely monitor whether the municipalities prioritise child protection in 2010 and whether we reach the goal of 400 new jobs. If this does not happen, the government will have to consider other instruments. It is natural for me to come back to the presentation of proposals for the 2011 budget. My main goal in the future is to ensure that municipalities have the resources needed to solve their tasks for the benefit of the children concerned. It's our more sunny duty, and it's a responsibility I take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2230	In this case, the Committee had a hearing. Among other things, we had: visits from the Fabric of Change, with a youth, a girl, with experience in the field of child protection. We got a lot of feedback from this youth that we should listen to, actually a whole list, which I think has also been sent to the Council of State. There she came up with a proposal that I think is entirely right, and which probably doesn't cost any of the world's things: changing the word'supervisor'. As she said right away, it sounds like something from American prisons. She suggested "trustee". Is this something that the Council of State can change immediately, i.e. from ‘supervisor’ to ‘trust person’? It sounds a lot milder, and it can't refer to American prisons. This is free!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2238	To refer to American prisons I have no desire to do. I have also heard this proposal. I think it's an interesting idea. I cannot, of course, take a position on it at the fullest possible level as the representative asks me now, but I can promise that it is one of the proposals that it would be natural to look at when we are going to go through the supervisory system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2243	I am very pleased with the support given by the Council of State to the Right and our proposal here. I am very pleased that the other parties in the Stortinget also believe this is an important initiative from the Right. But of course I am disappointed that we are not getting a majority on this matter today. It's not just me who's disappointed. There are a lot of people who are disappointed in child protection, because there are big expectations, even from some other parties, that things should now happen. I got a phone today, where a man expressed that it was an impossible idea that the government should accept such a proposal. I actually agree with that. Many are disappointed. Does the Council of State understand the seriousness of the oversight system and understand the urgency of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2252	It is in my answer that I take this very seriously, and I am concerned that all kids should have a supervisor. But then I have to say that with respect and joy for the initiative, as I have already mentioned, I am a little incomprehensible that the representative is so concerned about the vote. My response to the committee is that we are going through this. That the Storting should oblige me to do something we're already doing, I think it's superfluous, and that's what the government's vote reflects. So it's also that the proposal just reflects that there's not a lot of simple solutions. The proposal from the Right is that we should review, and I notice that I get a lot of shutting down from the opposition every time I say we're going to review something. At the same time, then, it is the opposition's own proposal today. I guess that shows that we all have a way to go when it comes to finding the best solutions in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2259	My first question is what we have asked several times in the past, namely the government's ambitions for child protection. After all, the Council of State has launched an evaluation of the child protection reform and state child protection, which is a long process, which I assume will then end up in a magnificence document that we will probably get in 2013 or 2014 – at least it is a long process. The first question is, when can we expect the government to bring a document to the Stortinget that shows the government's ambitions for child protection? My other question is linked to the unanimous comment of the Committee, which underlines the need for the review of the supervisory regime requested by the proposers. Will the Council of State carry out a review, and in what way will he come to the Grand Duchy with the results of such a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2266	I have said many times, both in this room and outside, that my overall priority in child protection policy now is to close the gap between tasks and positions in municipal child protection. It's like a lot of other problems that we're dealing with in child protection are related to the number of cases, the number of concerns messages, having increased more than the number of heads and hands that can work with them for years. That is why it will also be my priority No. one forward. Then, as the representative knows, the government is reporting to the Stortinget in the annual budgets, both on its priorities and on its strategies. It will also be quite natural to do this year, and it is primarily in the state budget that we will explain what is now our main objectives and our main priorities in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2271	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2274	I have spoken in the matter before, but I will not let the assembly miss the last part of my excellent script. With regard to the content of the supervisory arrangements for the protection of children, there is not necessarily a phased response to what such review and assessments will end up in. To this end, the Committee points to some of the elements that need to be considered when improving supervisory arrangements. Among other things, we point out: how to better involve young people in supervision, such as: with regard to the choice of supervisor and the organisation of supervision. Then there is a clear need to clarify the role of supervisor — what kind of expectations are set for supervisors. Several reports have highlighted and highlighted a major need in this area. Then there is remuneration and conditions for supervisors, which is important for recruiting a sufficient number. It is a matter of raising awareness that supervision needs to be organised on the premises of young people, in order to provide a basis for confidence and to provide the necessary information. This applies both to foster home supervision and to institution supervision. It is also very clear from consultations and other reports on child protection supervision that there is a great need for young people to be aware of the way and premises in which they provide information to supervisors and to supervisors of the institution. Then there may be arguments that go, on the one hand, towards the increased professionalisation of the supervisory role, with which it is argued from several. Other recordings go in a different direction and point out that the foster children should have more people they know about – that is, in the opposite direction. Increased professionalisation can enhance professional quality, but it can also create greater distances. So here there'll be arguments on different sides. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State has indicated that the supervision of the institutions will be part of the review of national child protection. That is not unnatural, and that is far from right. But when it comes to the supervision of babies in foster homes and shelters, the ratio is slightly different, because here the Council of State says in the letter of reply: ‘The Community shall also be responsible for emergency placements of children in emergency shelters and these children shall also be entitled to have their supervisor appointed. These acute sitings are often so short-lived that no supervisor is established.» They say that they are entitled to supervisors, but at the same time they say that it is very difficult to put it into practice. Then the Council of State has to go through it and clarify: Do they have requirements for supervisors? Okay, if they're still going to have it, you just have to organize it another way, either through professional supervision or another way that they can actually get it, even if it's a short-term location. It probably means that this has to be organised differently from today. But there is such an obvious inconsistency in the system and in the response given by the Council of State that it is one of the conditions that he must address in the review requested by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2296	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2304	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2350	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5-12, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 13, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 14, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 15, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1-14 is included on pages 37 and 38 of the vote, while proposal No. 15 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a Municipal Law Committee to review the total number of state law paragraphs governing the municipal sector and local democracy.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2393	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the KS in order to find a better distribution between the State and the municipality in relation to the costs of resource-requiring services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2408	There is a vote on proposal No 13, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the necessary local coherence between the funding base, industrial development and service production in the local government sector. In the 2011 government budget, therefore, tax revenue as a share of total revenue must be about 50 p.m., and the government asks the government to submit proposals to the municipal taxpayer that meet this objective.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2423	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-12, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government of the State budget for 2011 to propose an increase in the income of municipalities by 2.5 to 3 billion. SEK in addition to what the government has signalled in the Municipal Proposition 2011.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size asks the government of the State budget for 2011 to propose once again an increase in the percentage from 80 pst. to 85 pst. and reduce the entry point to $800,000 for resource-intensive services.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to present proposals for laws that give the most nurturing legal rights to meet basic needs – regardless of where they live – by 1 January 2011.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new quality regulation, based on new legislation, defining the basic needs clearly and clearly.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the 2011 State Budget to propose to increase the grant and the framework for the construction of new health homes, so that at least 2,500 new health homes can be built in 2011.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the necessary technological infrastructure to enable the government to implement technological solutions in the future in the context of a grant scheme for the construction of nursing homes.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to wind up today’s framework funding system and to replace it with a new system of need-driven state funding for basic welfare services such as health, care, primary, secondary and social services.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for government-driven financing of the nursery sector, based on the number of children and the number of hours per nursery.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2476	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls for the government to return to Stortingen with measures to ensure escalation in order to enhance the capacity and quality of the municipal child protection service and, if necessary, to earmark funds for this purpose.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2491	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose an amendment to the Tax Decision of the Storting such that 4,25 pst. of the corporation tax to the municipalities.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2506	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a concrete timetable for the phase-in of 100 pst. equivalent financial treatment for municipal and non-municipal kindergartens.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals involving equal treatment of the municipalities in the action zone.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2676	The left here has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2691	During the debate, the representative Solvency Horne put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the United Kingdom, the government is asking for the launch of an investigation into the design and implementation of an Internet-based service portal with the aim of providing an overview and a basis for comparison between the offers currently made in the field of child protection, in order to allow for the choice of the best offer for individual children/individuals to be placed away from home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2726	During the debate, the representative Solvency Horne put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the system of child protection supervision in order to strengthen the implementation of supervision with regard to the individual child residing in foster homes or institutions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-16.ana.ud2145e2780	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
