ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e117	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Christina Nilsson Ramsøy on leave from 15 June to 18 June in order to take part in the 58th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Paris of the representative of Dagfinn Højbräten on leave from 15 June to 17 June in order to attend meetings of the Board of Directors of the GAVI vaccine fund in Brussels; Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Trude Holm, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Christina Nilsson Ramsøy, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Rogaland County Kjell Arvid Svendsen For Northern Tributes County Erlend Fuglum
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e157	Kjell Arvid Svendsen and Erlend Fuglum are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Giltun, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e162	On behalf of the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Laila Maria Reiertsen and myself, I have delighted to make proposals to remove the age limit of 26 to cover the costs of training and activation aids for disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e167	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e194	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Government Council Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa 5 minutes. Here the President will inform you that the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa will have five minutes of the Workers' Party's speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e207	The proposal presented by the Progress Party on an enlarged and binding Norwegian railway investment plan is a proposal which is all the more reason to pay attention and debate. Transport policy and railway policy are an important means of achieving other overall societal objectives. The Committee has been gathered to stress that all people have a fundamental need for freedom, quality of life and a safe and secure everyday life. Businesses want the best possible assumptions to sell their products and services, and we others are going to work. These basic needs make it necessary to facilitate the rapid, efficient and safe transport of both persons and goods. The Committee has underlined and strongly expressed the fact that all accidents related to trains and crossings are a tragedy for all involved, and are, in this way, very unfortunate. The priority number one in railway operations must therefore always be safety. I'll just briefly mention that St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019, provides a sound overview of planned infrastructure projects over the next decade. The problem is that it is not binding and predictable. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, also point out that there is a significant weakness in the transport plan that this is precisely not mandatory and predictable and finds it unfortunate that the government is already in the first year of the planning period after the 2.3 billion ambitions. kr. The problems and deficiencies in the Norwegian railway system have become so serious and extensive over many years that there is a need for significant innovation and new solutions to ensure that we have a railway with life's right, even in the future. The punctuality in the railway sector has been steadily decreasing in the last five years, and that Norwegian railway is now in a critical phase, I think very many will stress. Within the railway there is a need for a strong improvement in capacity, quality, regularity and punctuality. Different actors in the railway sector point to a high need for increased appropriations, more predictability of funding, and that the development of rail tracks and tracks can take place at a significantly faster rate of investment than is currently the case. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People’s Party, believe that today’s critical railway state clearly demonstrates the need to re-evaluate today’s railway development funding mechanisms for both cost-benefit analysis, write-down rules and profitability requirements. It is important to arrange Norwegian rail through maintenance and development, regardless of who carries out the job, and regardless of who finances the development or maintenance. New financial instruments need to be considered in this way. An assessment must be made in all new major projects of what is the most appropriate organisational and funding solution for the project. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are committed to ensuring stable and predictable appropriations for the railways, and they recall that less than a year ago, the Stortinget adopted a national transport plan. I expect that these parties will come back to their own views. So I'm going to talk about the Right View in particular. We are very concerned that the national transport plan needs to be of a significantly more general nature and be aimed at it. All modes of transport must be seen in the context of planning. The plan should contain different transport scenarios. We underline the need for binding action plans for Norwegian railways and refer to our previous proposal for an action plan for the development of crossing tracks. We also believe that a good and reliable rail service, with the confidence of travellers, is essential for getting more traffic across from road to rail. Delays and cancellations in train traffic help to weaken rail in competition with car and aircraft. Increasing errors and defects in infrastructure and materials have also weakened the punctuality, attractiveness and reputation of the train in recent years. There is cause for concern about a development in which the train loses in competition with other modes of transport. I recommend the Committee's position, and come back to several points of view in later articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e239	Document 8:89 S for 2009-2010 from four representatives of the Progress Party, Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vokskesen and myself, concerns an expanded and binding national investment plan for the main road network. All other parties reject the proposal on the matter. The decision, which is supported by a majority of the Committee, will require the document to be annexed to the minutes. The parties to the Government have a proposal not to approve the proposal. The representatives of the other parties will explain their views. I use my post to talk about the Progress Party's view on the matter. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party. Let me first say what the proposal isn't. It is not a rematch on treatment, debate and voting related to the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, as the Stortinget concluded last June. It is a proposal for an expanded and binding investment plan for the main road network for the period 2011 to 2019 with an additional investment framework of 200 billion. kr. It is a proposal to use new investment tools to finance investments of 200 billion. kr. It is a proposal that will ensure far more investment in the way and with clear, long-term and predictable funding. Why this proposal? The Norwegian model of a national transport plan provides a framework that does not meet the need. It is of little benefit to boast of nominal increase in crowning appropriations compared to the year before after the previous plan when the gap between needs and plan content leads to an increase of 70 years before Norway has a modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network. When the government's proposal for the NTP came, the Federation said that the plan was not ‘sufficient to ensure the country a time-consuming road and rail system. Norway will continue to lose ground in relation to our competitors’ countries’. It was also said that the road development continues with the crawling speed. The Norwegian model of a national transport plan does not provide clear, long-term and predictable funding, on the contrary. The investment of the transport plan is weighted annually against all other good objectives in a one-year government budget that is expenditure-based. The Norwegian model, with its national plan providing money in an annual budgetary battle, creates unexplained, short-term and unpredictable funding in the transport sector. The progress party says, "We can't have it like that." We don't want it that way, and of course we don't have to have it that way either. That is not the way we should be if we want to modernise the road network in Norway – in particular the main road network, which is the basic factor for value creation across the country. More and more people agree with the Progress Party. The last one I registered was Bjørn Sund, referred to in the Evening Post last Saturday, June 12. Health has led the development of Aarhus, several OL facilities and the main airport at the Gardermoen. He says what the Progress Party has long said: the projects must be adopted as a whole, with full full funding from the first day, a separate development company authorised to carry out the entire project and with a clear timeframe. As the Progress Party, Sund believes that the state would like to stand as a builder and owner, but the company must have the authority to carry out the entire project. State control plan works best, says the Progress Party – says development expert Bjørn Sund. Professional competence exists both domestically outside the trade unions and abroad, says the Progress Party – says development expert Bjørn Sund. The Progress Party has made proposals for organisation before, and will be able to do so again – transforming state agencies into state enterprises and building through project companies. However, the main tool for speeding up investment in the road sector is the financing tool. This has been illustrated in the 2010 state budget, the first year budget of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, where there is a lack of money in the first year of the plan. The Road Traffic Information Council said the following: ‘Time road lift’ means a marginal road improvement.’; The starting point for this proposal is that the NTP system, NTP speed and NTP funding are fundamentally inadequate. We'll do something about that. We will introduce a system that distinguishes between annual expenditure budgets and budgets for investments that will last for 50 to 100 years. The Progress Party will introduce a system in which the Storting will adopt a binding investment plan for 10 years, with binding funding – it provides clear, not unclear, long-term, not short-term, and predictable, not unpredictable, financing of road development in Norway. The Progress Party proposes that such a binding national investment plan for the comprehensive road network for the period 2011 to 2019, with a framework of 200 billion. kr, shall be an addition to NTP and that drafts and proposals for such a plan are submitted in the autumn. It'll give you speed on the road development. We point to two important premises: state regulatory plan and full strain in the first part of the planning period also in order to complete plans. The Progress Party suggests that new funding tools be used. Among the tools Sigbjørn Johnsen recommended, before being bundled with dogmatic socio-economic thinking goods, was the following two: infrastructure funds, which means that parts of the oil revenues are set aside for a fund where the return is used for investment, and debt financing, which means that the state does what is common to all of us – and in all business life – that large investments are paid only in part with cash, the rest are borrowed and paid over time because the benefits and returns last long into the future. I've said it before – and I'm going to have to say it again for a while: No one builds a house in Norway as the state builds roads in Norway. No one builds houses without clear, long-term and predictable financing before the house project starts. When it is started, it is completed as soon as possible. The party of progress is happy that the Right is following us for the most part in the comments. At the same time, we are disappointed that the Right does not fully follow us – to the proposal, which is an order for an investment plan, an order for a case on the use of new tools, with a frame of 200 billion. kr to the main road network. It's a little bit surprising, because we have common notes, which include that. are from both parties, i.e. both from the Party of Advancement and the Right: ‘These members believe that experience from their own and other countries provides a fully sound basis for policy decisions relating to the use of a multiannual development plan with clear and binding multiannual funding based on new funding tools.’ The proposal is not on the right. The difference between the remark and the proposal is two things: that it should be done, and that the financial envelope is set at 200 billion. kr. So as opposed to the Progress Party, the Right will wait. The Christian People's Party has very brief comments, mostly on the environment and at least on the road and half the sentence that the Christian People's Party «is a supporter of increased investment in the tribal road network». Outside the hall I have registered that the head of the Transport Committee from the Christian People's Party is clear that more needs to be granted, but to the invitation to a dedicated investment plan and new financing tools, there is no point. While the roads fall away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e299	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e302	Good transport opportunities are important to enable us to use all of Norway and to have active and living districts. Upgrading the infrastructure will make everyday life easier for people, it will improve the environment, make society more inclusive and accessible to everyone, and it will strengthen the competitiveness of industry. Of course, betting on the way is part of this picture. National transport plan 2010–2019 — the third in the series — has been ‘working’ for almost six months. And even though the representative Blackevik said this isn't a rematch, that's exactly what it is. Recombination is envisaged at the investment planning framework, at project funding, at reorganisations, at splits and at AS-certification of management activities in the sector. The last time we debated this was in February this year. I am afraid that most of this post and the debate will be a repetition of what has been said earlier in this Chamber. There are limits to how many new arguments it is possible to make when the same issues are debated over and over again. But, to say it this way, my good friend from Hamar would have said, "We're just getting to wear." In the 2010–2019 national transport plan, there is an increase in the investment plan framework by road of 80.3 p.m. compared to the previous NTP. No matter how the opposition turns around and turns around, and no matter how much they complain, you can't help but realize that this is a historic promise. With the 2010 budget, plus what is in the proposal for revision, we are on track to meet the objectives of the plan. Then it is important to stress that in the transport sector too, we need to deal with a sound financial framework both in the short term and – perhaps even more importantly – in the long term. Only in the two things we're dealing with now, the Progress Party will wipe out 260 billion. NOK without saying one word about where the money will be collected. I have noticed that the Right and Christian People's Party does not support these proposals. I expect that the reason for this is that they are concerned that we should conduct a sound economic policy – and that is affordable. What surprises me, however, is that they are so hotly supporting the OPS model – or, in other words, buying their way and path on payoff. They even show how successful this has been in other countries. The United Kingdom is often used as an example of how great this works. The party of progress honors Margaret Thatcher as the great hero in that way. Now it's not going so well for the United Kingdom by day, and one of the problems is all the OPS projects. They have great difficulties in cutting budgets, which is absolutely necessary in the context of the financial crisis, because they have taken on large financial commitments. It turns out that extensive use of OPS has contributed to a deterioration in government finances. One might get the impression that someone thinks OPS is a pot of money that is not part of Norway’s financial framework, i.e. something outside the rule of action. Just so it's clear, it's not. I believe that you should be very careful to choose solutions that can push the rule of action. This could in that case have consequences that are not so easily understood in the long term. It's not like we're against project funding. The government has now committed this to three major transport projects. A major research project has been launched towards the roll-out of the NTP to assess all aspects of different forms of funding. The opposition is calling this a postponement. Then my question is: a postponement of what then? I cannot see that the government has announced any starting time for this. What they have said is that the matter should be investigated against the rolling of the NTP, and I believe that this is the case. I trust more in those who check the facts and investigate the consequences, before tying up such large sums of money for the future, and see it in a context of what the Norwegian economy can bear in the long term. Another aspect is the conclusion of a contract. We have some experience with it and we know how difficult it can be. And if we were to miss a point, or want to change something in retrospect, it could be expensive – so expensive that you can lose some of the space for action after the contract has been concluded. In addition, we should also know what this will require of increased bureaucracy. As regards socio-economic analyses in the field of transport planning, we in the Red-Green Group agree that it is important to further develop this tool, as the Minister for Transport also suggests in the context of the roll-out of the NTP. I expect that in the further debate we will hear again about what Matz Sandman thinks about this, and Sortevik has already mentioned Sigbjørn Johnsen and what he said the time he was in the county. Then I would just like to make it clear that the Minister of Finance has repeatedly explained here in this Chamber what he thinks in this matter, and I think that Blackevik's description of the Minister of Finance is of little value to political opponents. We will probably also hear more about the fact that almost all roads in Norway are in a wretched constitution, yes, worse than in any other country. I've been driving a lot on Norwegian roads for the last year, and it's a pleasure to observe all the good construction projects that are now in progress. When I drove from Oslo to Larvik a few weeks ago – to mention one example – I had problems understanding the whole song of complaint. Blackvik was into it, and we're going to hear more about how great it would be to release management activities and that markets and business-economy principles are much better suited to operating the businesses within the sector. In my opinion, there is no evidence to claim this. I expect that we will also hear something about how bad it is that we use tolls as a way of financing roads. To quote the Party of Advancement, the word «rovery» was the word used by the Party of Advancement in a debate on this last week. If we were to complete that argument, it must mean that the Progress Party believes that taxes and taxes are also «exploitation». So I understand that the Progress Party believes that we should have a social system where people are going to pay the minimum tax, and that each of us is going to pay for the services we need. In such an image, should the Progress Party really be for tolls? It's the ones that drive on the road, should pay to use it? But they'd rather remove all the toll stations and so on use several tens of billions in addition to the 260 billion. they propose in these two cases. I'm not quite sure that the NHO, as they refer to in the case, and the business community would be very pleased that there is too much pressure in the Norwegian economy. But as I understand it, this Advancement Party does not worry. Finally, I just want to underline what I said in the introduction: Road and good road standards are important for social development. We have major challenges, but I stress that we are taking transport seriously, we are doing a good job, and we are going to implement the plans contained in the national transport plan. I include this proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV in Document 8:89 S for 2009-2010 and our proposal in Document 8:88 S for 2009-2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e342	Then the representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, took up the proposals she mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e345	Actually, I only have one question of clarification, which I want to think about a little bit, and it goes to the Progress Party. But let me first say that I am very satisfied with what Sønderud now presented on behalf of the government party. I would just like to stress what she said about funding forms, that we are now researching different forms of funding, and that the Council of State has seen work going on with it. Not least for the railways there is a need to look at how they are financed when you see how they do it around Europe. For planes and roads, it's a little bit different, because they have their own incomes. For the railways and railway investments, it is different. Bombs cause the road to be built, and the asphalt to be rolled out. The brandy we buy at the airport leads us to build several airports, so there's a need to look at the railway in particular when it comes to the form of financing. If someone had asked me two years ago about what policy the Progress Party had with regard to the railway, I would have replied that yes, the Progress Party sees rail as a gigantic socialist project with Community solutions, which is destroying car traffic and asphalting in Norway. I gave them that answer. The reason for this is that one year ago, one was cut off in the railway budget – and now a sudden proposal to revolutionize the railway system. A newborn stands out. Then it's important for us who are not newly saved, but who have been saved on the railway all the way, to know the reason why the Progress Party is now freshly liberated. I think it may also be important for others – for the voters as well – that one explains to Stortinget what makes this a socialist project a few years ago. If we think a little bit about it: if the Progress Party had actually got multiples for its policy, then the train wouldn't have only been standing in some weeks in winter, but they had of course been standing constantly, because one had cut billions in investments and not least in maintenance on the railway. Therefore, it is important to know the reason for this ‘negligence’. So it's clear that if it was up to SV, we'd like to have more money for the railway. We're initially proposing 10 billion. This year to the railway, that is, 100 billion. during the NTP period. But we're very happy that one has done half – 5 billion. kr in the year – and thus get a completely different level from that of Bondevik II. So it was 1.3 billion. kr in the year of the draft budget for 2006. And it probably had when the Progress Party cut in with 1 billion. NOK, so it might have been $300 million. So let's add another cent. But we will know when the representatives from the Progress Party respond to this. I think what we're doing in the railways can revolutionize Norway, and then there's a dangerous word – the revolution of Norway. There may be some reason why the Progress Party has skipped it in order to figure out lightning trains. But for us in the plural, there's no contradiction in this. We can easily bet on lightning trains like one does on all over the world, but it doesn't conflict with the construction of the railway that we're running on or else. In fact, we can do this in a way that allows Norway to get on the track quickly when it comes to the construction of lightning trains – now we're pretty much behind us, if we look at this globally. Here it's just a challenge for the Progress Party: What do people think most about this? Well, most people are on team with SV, and towards the Progress Party when it applies, for example. gliding. 60 pst. in Norway is for this, and in the West it is over 80 p.m. which would like to do so instead of aircraft and road traffic impurity. There are, of course, reasons in different ways, but there is no doubt that train betting in Norway is going to be very important. I am pleased that the Progress Party has joined this ‘socialist’ project, which train construction was two years ago – but I would like to hear what is the reason for a now coming up with plans and proposals to invest in the railways, which two years ago were some cruel things that socialists stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e360	Road, rail, ports, broadband, mobile phone – all of this is very important for us to shrink distances in this country, in order to add the basic investments that will be made for future value creation. These are incredibly important assumptions for each of us, so that we can live where we live. However, unlike the representative Arne Sortevik, the Central Party sees these proposals as a pure reversal of the national transport plan – a national transport plan adopted less than a year ago, a national transport plan that has worked for less than six months, a national transport plan that added 100 billion. kr more than the previous national transport plan. A new national transport plan shall be adopted in 2013. The rolling work is well under way. There we are going to take the debate on other financing solutions to which the Minister for Transport has invited. There we can take the debate on the framework. The centre party must be an avid champion of wide frames, too. But that's what we're going to do in 2013. I am very happy about the summer, in fact also about waiting for queues – in projects that are well underway on the road, on the railways and in the case of asphalting. We can report that it is already around, at least in my own country, that people are in line waiting for the planters and the start-up to be done. I am going to contribute to accountability by not spending my speaking time today, but actually pointing out that the Central Party and the government parties are more concerned with implementing what is in today's national transport plan than spending time on rematches in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e367	I think this is an exciting debate, because we need more long-termity in the transport sector. For the Christian People's Party, we have chosen to do so by looking at how we organize this sector. Let me give you a concrete example: when we reorganized Avinor, it was to give Avinor a chance to raise a loan, to manage itself – not depending on the annual budget permits, but could raise loans and manage more yourself. To take a concrete example from this room: When this hall adopted the Gardermoen extension, it cost NOK 11 billion. It was a big political debate that I followed from the classroom. Now there might be a new debate about an extension of the Gardermo – not 11 billion. NOK, as it cost at the time, but perhaps an extension of NOK 7.5 billion. The paradox is that it can control Avinor – decide for that promise of 7.5 billion. kr – because they can raise loans and organize it further to what is most effective, and they save money on it. That is why I also found it an exciting model for road and for path within Norwegian transport policy. There will be more caution, one will be able to control itself more, and one will have the long-termity of what the proposers here are busy about. But when it comes to long-termity, I found it difficult to see it in the policies of the Progress Party when it comes to rail. We can only go back five to six years in time, when the Progress Party in the 2004–2005 budget position said that: ‘railway is not suitable as an efficient mode of transport in a country such as Norway where there is a low population density’. Furthermore, the Progress Party said that: ‘It would therefore be desirable to invest to a far greater extent in the construction and maintenance of the road network, rather than investments in the network and the purchase of services from the NSB’. When we know that the Progress Party said this five to six years ago, it is difficult to see the desire for long-termity within the railway as a point of reference today. But now I might be more positive to the newest than Hallgeir H. Langeland's, so I also like the intention of what was said by the Progress Party. There was a question from Arne Sortevik about what the Christian People's Party is doing. Yes, we are willing to bet more on the road. We actually think that it is so important to bet on the road that we are willing to increase the toll part. If we have the option, do we want to build a road, or do we want to say no tolls? Then the Christian People's Party says that the road is so important that we are actually willing to do something about it. Therefore, we are also willing to go beyond the representative of Sønsterud in relation to the OPS project. Britain is not doing so well, said the representative of Sønsterud. I might add: after twelve years of government with the Labour Party. But it's not the OPS project in the UK that's the problem. The OPS project is intriguing and contributing to the positive development of the transport sector. And that gives us possibilities. Not only is there a funding key, but there is also a possibility to improve the project, to make innovation and to think new. That's why I'm glad that Mr. Kleppa, despite his own finance minister, has been working to sort out the OPS project, to look at what might be possible in relation to this. Maybe it's because of what Per Olaf Lundtegen said to today's business 24th March, that today's running system goes against the people's will and common sense. I'm in agreement with Lundteigen. We need more long-termity and therefore we support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e388	Just a brief statement and an explanation of vote as we are not on the committee. The left has great ambitions in terms of traffic. When the Stortinget was granted in connection with the NTP in spring, the Left proposed, among other things. to increase the appropriations for rail by more than 30 billion. kr for the next 10 years. I think it is very gratifying that the Progress Party is also busy with the railway. There is the hope that a majority on Stortinget will be able to adopt a somewhat different and more offensive attitude towards the railway in the future. Perhaps we can manage to solve the train chaos within a reasonable time and get to Bergen and Trondheim in four hours – and the intercity triangle in Norway’s densely populated area is perhaps the biggest and most important project to take all first. Within the road, the Left has had the most focus on road safety, safe roads, physical middle parts and race protection. Under Bondevik II, we were drivers together with the Right and Christian People's Party for OPS, which is absolutely a type of bond, and which has been successful, no matter what the Workers' Party is trying to say here in this room. In these two cases, the Left will support the proposals to annex the document proposals to the Protocol. The left is not foreign to commit funds to investment in road and rail, but the proposal for the Progress Party says little, as we see it, about financing arrangements, how this should be organised and where it should be developed. If funds are to be tied up, it is essential to know what to do and how to collect the money. Here it remains, as we see it, some work. But the Left will be the driver of this work, and we will come back to spring with more constructive proposals on how this can be done, because I think it is a very important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e402	The government has in St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019, added to an investment framework of 72 billion. kr on the road and 50 brd. kr to railway. This means an increase of about 80 pst and 100 pst. compared to the previous national transport plan 2006-2015. The party of progress calls this a very modest bet. There must be a wrong use of words, at least I will use other expressions about the national transport plan that we are now six months away: it is an ambitious national transport plan. The government has proposed to phase out its efforts into the economy by stepping up its efforts. There is a warning of an escalation, of course within the limits set by a defensive economic arrangement. So the 2010 budget is the first year of such a phase-in. The proposal from the Progress Party represents an increase in investments for road purposes of around 380 pst. and for 120 pst. Such an increase in the level of activity in the transport sector would actually require implementation. The increase in the national transport plan 2010–2019 alone will be challenging with regard to the capacity to plan and develop new investment projects. This applies both to the two etats that are to implement all necessary planning, to the construction industry, and not least to municipal planning processes. Work on the long-term investment plans in the field of transport is an extensive project in itself. The increasing level of investment permits is very much required to manage today’s planning regime. The Ministry of Transport has now begun work on the rolling of the National Transport Plan. This is usually the case with a national transport plan that goes beyond ten years, that one rolls this plan after four years. This means that a separate message will be submitted to Stortinget early in 2013. I do not propose to propose deviations from the planning processes for preparing proposals for the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, but it will be assessed to propose changes to the annual budget proposals. So the rolling work is going well and has been well received out. It is now in the first round that the institutions are making their proposals, and then there will be a political round after that on the road here – literally. Then there will be plenty of contact points, own meetings, so that both the different communities, the regional populace level and also the business community will be drawn in and heard. The representative’s proposal addresses the issue of new tools for financing the development of road and rail structures, including: in the light of a desire for more rational development. I am pleased that the national transport plan currently in force also provides for more rational development. The government's starting point is that there's no lack of money here. As a result, there is no need for other forms of funding either. Today’s funding is far-reaching — state resources and tolls — and it is a debt for the current period. I still think it might be useful to get more knowledge about the possible effects of other forms of funding. I have therefore opened myself up for a discussion of different ways of financing and organising state-owned transport projects. The Ministry of Transport has ordered an own research project in which we get involved in the international experience so far in this field. But let me underline: another form of organisation and funding is not very segregated either, as some people will mention it as – it depends on both the project and, not least, the scope of the project. Today, in the National Transport Plan, we have three projects that are on their own. It's to gain experience too. We consider by expanding the E6 on Helgeland to give both expansion, operation and maintenance over several years to the same developer. It will also be a useful experience. So I have noticed that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party once again refer to their respective proposals to turn the Railway Agency into a company. This has been up to discussion in Stortinget several times during this winter in connection with the extensive operating problems encountered by the railway due to snow and long cold periods. As I have said before, this is not, in my view, a matter of the organisation of the railway system; it is mainly related to the lack of maintenance of the network over many years. I would like to begin by saying that a new way of organising and financing will also mean more careful and more binding plans. Here was a claim that the national transport plan is not mandatory. I would say from the government that we overcomply with the previous national transport plan – otherwise it is the only plan that is actually filled in. On our side, we consider the national transport plan compulsory. We've registered that there are other governments that haven't thought of it before. Then we're busy completing projects instead of new ones, we have the possibility of doing that when we have such an ambitious plan that we have. But in our national transport plan, there is room for both, therefore also a long line of KVU on the road and also on the road, therefore also nine-time follow-up of the projects already started, both on the road and on the road. It turns right in connection with the expansion of the Gardermoban as if selective forgetfulness were taking effect. It wasn't as easy as it is now being produced to build the Gardermoban. I note that there is someone here who has both forgotten Puttjer and the difficult extra promises that needed to get the Gardermoban in port in time, in line with the completion of the Gardermoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e428	It'll be a line chord shift, limited to up to five lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e431	I actually had to pinch my arm when I heard the council say that there is no lack of money that is the problem. But that is a long and comprehensive debate of its own, so we cannot use a line on it. But the council concluded with a visit to the Gardermoen project, so let me take a line on it. The Gardermoen Main Airport and the Gardermoban is one of the largest recent transportation projects in the infrastructure we have implemented in recent times. But it's, problems or not, built according to other principles. Full funding, own organisation, a set timeframe – although there were challenges in the process – reasonably successful, implemented, completed and completed are, in our view, a good model. What makes it impossible for this model to be used to a greater extent and for more projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e438	In order to ensure that we are both persuasive and committed, it is necessary to phase in the necessary resources at any time. That's what the government is doing, but we also have to consider the total economy in the phase-in of a transport project. Then we have now added to follow three projects extra carefully. This means that we are now adding 64 million to the revised budget. kr to the route Oslo-Ski. It turns out that it is necessary to keep progressing. There may be other and quite large costs of other types of funding. We're going to evaluate that in the next planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e445	I record that the Council of State boasts very much about what was done with the previous national transport plan, and that it was overfilled. But the national transport plan we have now begun is missing, after the revised budget has been presented, over 1.7 billion. kr to be followed up in the first year. The government also said it's not on money. But the Council of State has said from this speaker that she will consider cutting out some railway projects that are in line and that need to be financed. If it's not on money, what is it on? And what are the projects that the Council of State is now saying she should not carry out? She's had a little bit of time to evaluate this, so maybe we can now know which railway projects are to be postponed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e452	Let me first say about phasing the funds into a framework of national transport plans: there is a warning of an escalation in the plan. The government has shown us in 2010 that we are doing it in the first year, and we are going to do it in the first year. So Hoksrud can only follow along, and then it will reveal itself soon. So to what project: there is no doubt that there are major challenges both on the road and on the road when it comes to planning. That's the way it is, we have to take care of that. But we provide the planning as best we can. When it comes to the level of the project on the railway, as Hoksrud asks, I have informed that if it were to be relevant with a change, I will come back to Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e459	The councils had a clear vision here a winter night, when she said she was open to new forms of funding. Then the prime minister and the finance minister were in a hurry and said that they would have nothing of it immediately. Now I hear that the Council of State is open to – and is saying that it is going to be researched – new financial instruments. The representative Langeland was also on that track. He was also on the Right-Tour to Sweden and looked at the Bothnia Railway. The question is, how long does the Council of State intend to investigate? We have the knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e466	I thought that the knowledge that is available today is likely to ask questions about it. There are different experiences. We have three projects in Norway that have been carried out through Public Private Cooperation. They weren't reasonable. They weren't more expensive either. Their completion was faster. Some of the same thing, just faster progress, we can do it by adding more money. We have. So unlike under the previous government, it's 100 billion. kr. more - a not insignificant amount. So I'll answer the question. The research project will be completed in good time before the launch of the 2013 Storing Communication – as well as other assessments related to new forms of funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e473	The Minister of Transport says that NTP stands firm. On 6 April this spring, there was a meeting where the Minister of Transport was present, where the Director of the Railway said about the challenges facing the Norwegian railway system. There were relatively strong words used, such as that the maturity was so great that it was linked insecurity to the future to the railway in Norway. On that basis, will the Minister consider looking at NTP? It was said that this will be done in the annual budgets that will be provided, but will one also look at NTP in total? That's my question. Then I would also ask the Minister to give a brief comment to Per Olaf Lundtigen's statement that today's licensing system goes against the people's will and common sense. This applies to large projects, such as: the transport sector has many of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e482	I now want to say that there is a lot of common sense in phased into the different projects with government funds as they can, and also in following up the commitment that is going on in the country to get even more projects using toll funding, as one does today. So for maintenance on the railway. In the revised budget, the government has already taken the consequences of the meeting on 6 April. The railway station has received an additional 210 million. DKK for maintenance, 50 million. kr for re-prioritisation, investment and Bergen; and, in addition, a re-prioritisation of 150 million. NOK – i.e. SEK 410 million. kr more for maintenance on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e489	Now we see that the objectives of the NTP are not being achieved, either by the previous government or this government. The Council of State keeps saying that we don't need money. Then it's very legitimate to ask, what is it? Then why are we in the NTP? Does the Council of State see the need for innovation? Can the council share some of those thoughts -- if she sees it, or when she sees it, something she certainly sees -- about what she's going to do to get what we promise in NTP? Because that's what people are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e495	I am very pleased with the strong commitment that is, both in the Storting and abroad, when it is necessary to follow up a very ambitious national transport plan. But I can't say, as the representative Trend, that we don't reach the goal in the national transport plan, when we're close six months in the first year of ten years, and we've already seen new projects start, we've seen a long line of drafts and distributions that, most of them, will be finished in 2010, for further follow-up, and we're doing well with the rolling. News: We've already talked about something in this row change, more will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e502	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e505	In the two matters we are now dealing with, we are, in effect, invited to vote for the Progress Party's alternative national transport plan, which was voted down a year ago. Everything suggests that the Stortinget will again reject the proposals against the votes of the Progress Party. 60 B.C.E. kr more in the railway investment framework and 200 billion. kr more on the way in the next ten years – it sounds provocative. But it's okay that the rest of the opposition isn't just as loose in their use of money. Where is the Advance Party going to take the money from? That's the big question. But what I'm happy about is that once again this spring we get the opportunity to discuss the railways in the main hall. That's probably the fourth time since New Year's we've been discussing the railways at an overall level, and it's good for us who are happy in trains. There have been exceptional conditions for the railway in winter. We have an old and worn-out infrastructure that is working on blasts to get better condition. But that recent problems are also due to cold and a snowy winter, there is no doubt if we look at developments in punctuality. Punctuality has improved beyond spring, and it's good for the travellers. But it doesn't free us from the fact that we have to do more for the infrastructure, and here is the Workers' Party and the government going on. The railway company received the money they requested for maintenance in the state budget. Now it is said that they can use even more, and in the draft revised budget for 2010, they will receive additional new funds that they can use. It is also good to remember that investment in new infrastructure has more than tripled since 2005. In the coming years, we will continue to spend more money on the railway year by year. The railway has life's right, and we're going to develop it further. National transport plan is not binding enough, says opposition. No, because the Bondeviks weren't. They were unable to follow up their plan. It also did not provide predictability for those who plan and build the railway. The working party and the government over-filled the previous national transport plan, and now we are embarking on a new plan with a higher framework. National transport plan involves an escalation. We're going to escalate the effort year after year. For us, the plan is binding and is more than just a paper. We've shown that, and that also gives predictability to the railway. As an example, Oslo-Ski, which also has its own government budget line to ensure predictability and rational progress, is also the case for the other projects. The ambitions don't stop there. A new strategy for continuous double-track development has been announced in the intercity triangle in the East. When we roll the national transport plan, we have to be time-consuming when continuous double tracks can be realised here. And yes, it must be before 2040. If you take a trip to Ski Station today, you will see that the work on a new station and what is going to be a new double track to Oslo is going on. At Gewingåsen, work is done to complete the new tunnel. On Bergensbanen, on the Nordlandsbanen and on other sections of the railway, maintenance is being carried out. In the Oslo area, there is daily work to get the carriageway standard on the railway and to increase the regularity of the Oslo tunnel. The investigation and the possibility of high-speed trains is well under way. That we want something about the railway, not least is shown by such an investigation. The clumsy trick we've been working with for years has been an expression of low ambitions. Now the level of ambition is higher, and the railway gets more money. The investigation itself contributes to raising the railway by showing a willingness to bet. Then we get to hope that the conclusions of the investigation will be the construction of the high-speed rail. But now the focus is on improving and strengthening the railway we have. We have to get a better winter next year than the one we had this year. I expect that the railway system and the NSB have learned something from this winter, and that readiness is even better next winter. When the Railway Agency receives the money they are asking for, we expect results back from those who have given the money. The opposition continues to focus on technical matters such as organisation, competition, OPS, financing models and calculation methods, which they have also been concerned with earlier this winter. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure a better working day for travellers and for the carriage of goods. That's why our focus is on giving the Railway Agency and the NSB the opportunity to deliver what we expect from them. When the challenge is to do something about the infrastructure, the solution is not competition on the rails. Once the Railway Agency has struggled to regain the competence they lost when the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left gave many employees final packages, the solution is not to split any more, as an ideological project. The Labour Party will strengthen and improve the Norwegian railway system. Right now we think it's best to solve it by making sure that the railway company is building a robust organisation, and that they get the money they're asking for. So I don't want to deny that when we get continuous double-track expansion, or if we're going to build the high-speed rail, we have to organize this as our own projects, as we do, for example. with Oslo-Ski. I'm excited about what comes out of the research done in this field now. The Gjøvik track is often presented as a success. Ask those who travel with the Gjøvik track now if they are satisfied. Punctuality in winter has been about the same as the rest of the country. In the last few weeks now, punctuality has been lower on the Gjøvik track than on the main track or on the isolated Eastfold track. The passengers are dissatisfied with the lack of trainsets and the cancellation of trains due to staff shortages. They call for the basis of competition, the agreement between the State and the NSB, because they feel that they do not receive the offer they were proposed. This, of course, is not good, but it shows that the outsourcing has not only been a success, as the opposition often claims. We have a national transport plan with significant funds for the railway. This and all the concrete projects are our focus; both operations, maintenance, new lines, multiple crossing tracks and other improvement actions. The party of progress overwhelms everyone else with money, which they have either taken from the peasants, the world's poor or the future pensioners or everything in a combination. I am pleased that we have a broad majority on the Stortinget which is not involved in that kind of policy. The Labour Party and the Government will be able to renew their confidence in the railway through the proposals and budgets we are presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e537	Welcome to Anderledenland! Norway is the world's best country to live in, but we have one of Europe's worst infrastructures. That's the best country in the world. Railways, roadside and other transport sectors are equally poor – perhaps with the exception of aviation. Otherwise, Norwegian infrastructure is quite poor. To take a few examples: we hear from some representatives of the government parties who have been on the pulpit here today, how great it is, but that is how when people come from, for example, Germany and sitting in its trailer and driving up to Telemark and coming to Haukeli and going on across the mountain, they wonder when they're going to drive into the European road. It's when we tell them that they've been driving the European road for well over a couple of hours, that they wonder if Norway is the best country in the world to live in. I get it very well. What this is all about, and the proposal by the Progress Party is about, is that we should have an infrastructure that will ensure that we have an infrastructure today, that we have an infrastructure for tomorrow, and that we have an infrastructure for future generations, which will ensure a good and safe opportunity to both drive and travel on our infrastructure, but not least ensure that people will be able to live across the country. I know that there are parties that are concerned that people should have the opportunity to live in the whole country, but then you have to have an infrastructure that makes it actually possible. I think it is good to hear that the Right comes after, and that they will have more overall plans in place, and that they will have multiannual budgets. It is only so bad that they will not be involved in making concrete proposals that would ensure both multiannual budgets and ensure that the framework is there and that there is predictability in the financial framework we are basing. Then I register that the representative, Sønsterud, believed that investment in infrastructure is defrauding the money. I don't think investing in infrastructure is getting rid of the money. I think it's actually about showing that you want to give future generations the opportunity to continue the prosperity development that we've had in Norway so far, and that we want us to continue to have in the future. It'll actually bring a lot of big savings. It's about spending money on infrastructure that means we're putting money in asphalt or rail, which will last 50 to 100 years in time, and that will give the next generations the same opportunities we have, in fact, maybe even better opportunities, by investing and investing money in what gives opportunities in the future, and not throwing them away on the stock exchange in foreign companies, which one could risk going bankrupt and could risk going bankrupt. It's actually not about spending money, but it's about how to manage the wealth we're raising from the North Sea. North Sea oil is good to use for asphalt on the roads – it is good reuse of oil, back to something useful. The representative Sønsterud also said that she had driven to Larvik, and thought it was good roads. I know at least that driving to Larvik is kind of like driving like a rabbit, which is out and in of two and four-field roads. I agree that it is good to drive on the four-field road, but I should like to see the representative Sønsterud driving a little further, that she had come down to Telemark and seen what this is all about, and what an incredibly bad road we have on the E18 through Telemark, further down the Southland and around to Rogaland. Then perhaps the representative Sønsterud too would realize that there are major challenges with major problems also on our main road network. The representative of Langeland was very concerned that it was tax-free that financed the airports. Perhaps the representative of Langeland should have suggested the same thing, that perhaps one should have tax-free at the railway stations, so that there could also be part of and funded parts of the infrastructure of Langeland. I know, of course, that this is not a realistic proposal. It's not like the drivers don't pay for the road, or the passengers don't pay to fly. They definitely do. They pay in full. They actually pay a lot more than the actual cost and what you get back. So Langeland says that most people agree with SV when it comes to lightning trains. Yes, if it costs as much to take a lightning train between Oslo and Bergen as it costs to fly between Oslo and Bergen, I also understand that people think it's okay to take the train. But when they know that it costs x hundreds of percent more, I'm convinced that even the meaning of ordinary people will be a little bit different. Janne Sjelmo Nordås was, instead of working on new proposals and getting more money, most concerned with getting an impact on the national transport plan that has been adopted. Yes, then she has at least succeeded quite poorly, because there is still a gap of 1.7 billion. kr to comply with it. Then I would like to address the proposal made by the Progress Party in Document 8:88 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e560	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e563	I want to talk about the issue of a binding national investment plan on our road network. Ingerd Schou has spoken in an excellent way about the railway. In this case, in fact, the right is largely in line with the proposers, in the sense that we believe the way in which we organise funding and planning measures in the road sector in Norway has become immature. I am therefore a little surprised that we get criticism from the Progress Party on this matter. So it turns out that the right comes after. Let me remind the Progress Party that we have a comprehensive plan at 23 points with reforms for Norwegian transport. Then I have to return the criticism and say, unfortunately, it is directly irresponsible to put forward a proposal that we will present a plan of 200 billion by the autumn of 2010. kr to Norwegian Roads. That's why we're not in it, that's what they say. Every country around us does this in other ways that give more and faster way back for the money. The Bondevik II government was in the process of reforming the Norwegian transport sector, yes, in many areas we actually followed up a work that was started with the workers' party governments Stoltenberg and Jagland. Unfortunately, we do not see much of that policy today. After Stoltenberg was forced to kneel down by LO before the elections in 2001, there are small signs of modernisation and, unfortunately, after beating with SV and the Center Party in 2005, it was completely stopped. Not a single reform or modernisation measure has we seen for five years in a sector as important as Norwegian transport. At the same time, there are three clear features in the development that are clear to all: the roads are getting worse – it is also in the government’s own action plans. Large projects are repeatedly delayed to a major disadvantage for road users. Toll financing, i.e. user payment of our roads, increases enormously and is almost 50 pst. of the investment budget. Still, the red-greens say they're betting on transportation. It reminds me a little bit of the famous ostrich, the head and the sand. So if the cost increase is equal to or greater, it's no longer going to be possible to increase the amount of money. Government parties have thus found no reason to go into one of the many well-intentioned actions of the opposition to improve Norwegian roads, plan smarter and build faster. Not even their own proposal in the Soria Moria project finance statement was followed up after five years in government. But those are points of light. The Minister for Transport has said that she feels for OPS as a new form of development and funding for large projects in Norway. She speaks of this in the media and is soon put in place in the ranks of the Minister of Finance of the Labour Party, who paradoxically addressed many of the Right Reform proposals in Hedmark. Together with Matz Sandman, he even drew up a document they called – I'm going to refer to it, since Tone Merete Sønsterud did not do it in his post – ‘National lift for rail and road. Models for the long-term and more efficient implementation of development projects’. I even have it. It's an excellent document. Very many of the measures here are in line with the Røjre transport plan, and it is therefore a pity for Norwegian traffic, for Norwegian roads and for Norwegian road users that the government is fully on the ground to rest. Unfortunately, we seem to lose eight years without any renewal of the sector, and I find that regrettable. So the Council of State says that three projects have been put on their own budget lines and that there is project funding, because this ensures predictability in these projects. Those who follow along a little bit have recorded in the last few days that this government council has just stopped the development of one of these projects, namely E6 west of Alta. So far kept predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e580	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e583	Researchers and professionals in Norway claim that it will take at least 60–70 years to absorb the aftermath and maintenance on our roads. Although I'm young and patient, I don't have time to wait 60–70 years to get a standard on our roads that's good, safe and effective. Norway needs a road standard that is sound, which ensures human life and meets business needs. We need to take some action in the transportation effort. We need to ensure the development and maintenance of both road and track. The Progress Party wants to ensure the development and maintenance of the transport network through a new investment plan to create predictability and security for our citizens and our business life. For the Progress Party, it will never be acceptable to transfer this bill to the drivers. Tolls are an extra tax that is deeply unfair and unsocial. Time and again, we experience that the government parties use municipalities and county municipalities as hostages to force them through toll financing. If local politicians don't say yes to toll financing, yes, they won't get away either. In the NTP for the period 2010–2019, the government says that they will invest approximately. 219 B.C.E. kr on the road. In the same period, the government will take in 700 billion. kr from the drivers through taxes, taxes and tolls. These cars are used here as dairy cows, and less than a third of what they pay in car-related taxes will go to road development and safety measures. Despite that, the government believes that it is not enough. The government records toll-funded projects. It is time that some actually set off the revenues we get through car-related taxes, for the purpose they were meant to, namely to finance the road. Examples of municipalities currently using toll income for collective services and financing bicycles and walking paths are available. It is almost so I have to ask if the drivers will also be responsible for financing the railway projects in addition, and it has to the extent that the Christian People's Party has responded yes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e592	In the case of railways, it's about decades of neglect. When I listen to the government parties here today, I don't think that most people think anything particularly about how to dry the water, buy time, wait and see, research on financial instruments, come back to the next NTP, and the government is without action in a situation where we've had a winter that clearly shows that the railway is worn out, it fails, the signalling systems fall, the goods pass by, and people don't get to work in time. I think this is about not wanting to modernise and not wanting to use new financial instruments, simply because one has an ideological aversion to using also a cooperation between public and private in terms of funding. I also hear that the representative Kjernli says we have to get a better winter next year. I wish! I don't think this hall is able to decide that, and I don't think the railroad is getting newer by the blue road coming. The railway is as old and worn out also the next winter, although winter should get better. Railway is thinking about environment. The government is failing. Railway is thinking district policy. You fail there, too. Railways are necessary for business and the government is committed to the achievement of the goods on the road. There is a strong population growth in and around cities in Norway — it will continue in the coming period — and combined with economic growth, increased car turnover and increased commuting will also increase the pressure on transport systems. I hear the Council of State says she's going to be researching new forms of funding. Perhaps you can take a trip with the Botniabanan in Sweden along with Langeland, who has been there before, and see how new forms of funding can be used. The Council of State says that there is nothing seductive, sedentary about using new forms of funding. No, it's not. But it is also the case that new forms of funding in the rest of Europe and in our country provide more and more rapid, faster, and more predictable. It is not that the Right wants to spend money freely and freely. We have prioritised and said that rail – double tracks in the intercity triangle, the Corn/Rich border, the EU, if you like, Skien and Lillehammer – is our first priority. We are committed to using new forms of funding – project finance and Public Private Cooperation – and to using funds, simply because we want people to go to work and goods to go on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e603	I am very pleased that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are united on a great deal in the attitudes of the Progress Party's two proposals on investment plans for road and rail. The non-socialist parties agree that there is a significant weakness in the non-obligatory nature of the transport plan. The non-socialist parties agree that predictability is important in transport policy, for example, countries such as France and Denmark have good experience with binding investment plans. The non-socialist parties agree that more predictability is needed for projects that go beyond time. We also agree that a funding system should be put in place in which planned and started projects can be implemented more fully in a context. The right and Christian parties clearly agree with the assumptions on which the proposals are based, and it is therefore strange that they will not vote in favour of the proposals. The representative Ingerd Schou from the Right and the representative Knut Arild Hareide are fighting to attack the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre to make empty promises. The Christian People's Party wants to build a railway with borrowed money. But where in the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party is the allocation to cover these interest rates? The committee leader from the Christian People's Party had a play in a November edition of Technical Weekly, where he arranged for more construction of the four-field highway on the E18, but in the Christian People's Party's alternative state budget for 2010 they had only spent enough money on 500 meters more than the government. I don't see a single crown for the Christian People's Party in revision. You should almost think that faith was the most important thing and not the money. On the right, a pile of OPS projects will be launched on the road, but as long as they do not want to grant the money to do so, the result will be even more toll – despite the fact that the representative Schou in the election campaign guaranteed that the road network would not be tolled. Independently of funding models – path or path, OPS, debt financing, fund redundancies or project financing – no one is able to implement an ambitious development without a formidable state uplift through road and track financing. I am happy to find these investments in the budgets and settings of the Right and Christian People's Party. I'm asking where it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e620	This has been a fairly predictable debate, although I have to admit that I have some problems to imagine the representative Hoksrud driving as ‘a rabbit’ between two and four-field roads on the way down to Larvik. Otherwise, I would like to say that I share the views of the representative, Fredriksen. I agree with a lot of what he said, not least his emphasis on the fact that we cannot finance our loans for the better way, and that we need a government boost. This is exactly what the government has done in the national transport plan. It's a formidable state lift, with a 100-billion-billion-dollar frame. kr higher than the previous one. What made me draw, however, was precisely Halleraker's and Hareide's presentations around the OPS model. For me, it's the way to think about really going backwards into the future. It is true that we have enough experience with the OPS model, not just in Norway, but in a number of European countries, which suggests that this is not a suitable model to go on with. I think it's too simple by the representative Hareide when he owes it to the Labour Party government in the United Kingdom, that they're a reason it hasn't worked. That is not why it has been concluded that OPS is not a dangerous path, nor is it why a number of other countries have done so. So, with OPS, first of all, you have to finance a loan to build a road. It won't be much cheaper. It doesn't go much faster either. What is perhaps the most serious point of appeal to OPS as a model is that it leads to a huge bureaucracy, a heavy bureaucracy, because you have to secure all the bows and edges of the contract. So instead of speeding up progress, there is a system of extensive red tape. It is true that the Minister for Transport has called for an analysis of alternative funding models. It puts all three red-green pieces behind it. The Labour Party has decided at its national meeting that we want to look at alternative funding models. That is also why we have three separate posts on the State budget, in order to ensure predictable funding. It is a modern way of assessing alternative funding. I believe that the work undertaken by the Minister for Transport will provide us with an important basis for decision in view of the next roll-out of the NTP. The most important thing is that we spend money. That's what this government is doing. This year alone, the national investment framework increases by 34 pst, while at the same time ensuring a responsible financial framework. Unfortunately, the Progress Party does not, and there is also agreement with Fredriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e636	This is the very essence of the matter. If you look back and look at old numbers, you can of course be glad that you're able to increase some nominally. If you look at it in relation to the need, there is reason to be downgraded, because it will take 50–70 years before you get a modern road network in place. The proposal of the Progress Party in the road sector, as the representative Halleraker spoke about, is therefore that we should have our own expanded and binding national investment plan for the main road network in the autumn, and that we should use new funding tools to provide clear, long-term and predictable funding to ensure the overall development of large-scale projects within the investment framework set at 200 billion. kr. This characterises the representative Halleraker of the Right as a direct irresponsible proposal. That's an honest point of view, but we don't share that view. What we remember, on the other hand, is that when the NTP was rolling in this big pile – I was actually on it myself – the bulk of the population chose to increase the frame compared to the proposal that came from the then government, i.e. Bondevik II, where the Right was a government party. Then we also met with reactions that it was a direct irresponsible proposal. This is a good proposal, an important proposal to clarify long-term and predictable funding for faster road development than we have, and that is a necessary proposal. In particular, the necessity is underlined when we hear the Council of State both describe and defend a system that goes on a crawl, and on the one hand tell us that it's not on the money and on the other hand tells us that she's still going to research on other funding. When we hear about phase-in, as we heard from the Council of State, it's just the emphasis on why we have to have solutions other than that adopted National Transport Plan, so to speak, to the examination, the prioritisation exam, once a year, together with all other good purposes. Not even these three projects that have received their own mail – because they have not received project funding, but they have received their own post on the State budget – are protected for annual phase-in. We have just heard that one of these three projects has received a stop signal, and then there is an emphasis on the fact that there is no guarantee in the arrangement that the government has chosen. To the representative of Sønsterud, I should like to say briefly that we are not swindling with money, but we are investing. We have examples from our own country. We have proven to be funding – if you listen – and that we actually have a bad road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e647	Since the representative Bjørnflaten wondered what rabbit driving was, I could invite her, but it may be that it is misunderstood. That just means you're driving pretty fast a good piece, and then it's a bad brake because you're running in from a four-field road to a two-field road. After listening to the representative Knut Arild Hareide, and to the extent that he has recorded what he has said in the last five to six months, I think he may have a much bigger problem than explaining what the Progress Party did many years ago. Despite the promises made by the Christian People's Party of billions to both road and rail in connection with the revised budget, it is, as far as I know, in transport allocated zero extra kroner. So I think maybe you should do something at home before you criticize others. I really wanted to take the floor because the representative Kjernli says we should step up year after year. The last thing I have registered from Jens Stoltenberg and Uncle Skrue in the government, i.e. Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen, is the very opposite: you have to cut public spending in the government budgets in the years to come and not increase. It's something completely different. I'm always being saved every time I hear politicians talking about phase-in or escalating. I think many, both local politicians and most people, have experienced that escalation plans are something other than a real escalation. It means displacement of things, pushing things out in time, and the same thing with phase-in. We've also registered that in this area. It's not like you're phased in. That's what's in one sentence in the National Transport Plan for this period, but I don't think anyone has experienced it like that. When you look at the road network you have and the challenges you face, it's no longer a phase-in you need. You need a real adjustment, and that's what we've been proposing with the proposal that's now in place. I want to come up with a challenge, because I hear the government representatives from this pulpit constantly boasting about how good they are to spend money. The challenge is that maintenance continues to decline despite the increased appropriations. The world of reality on the outside of this house is something quite different than the government parties are trying to present it as from this pulpit. The reality is that road standards are getting worse. There are some new projects that are going to be good. Everyone agrees. But the challenge is that the need continues to grow despite the increased appropriations, and then it helps really little to boast about what you've done. In fact, you have to start acting and make sure to follow up the huge aftermath that we have on our road network. I want to challenge the government on that. I experience that many from the government parties say they want to grant more money for transportation, but they are not allowed by Jens and Uncle Skrue in the government. I hope that we'll soon be able to get to grips with that crowd, so that you can actually see that it's important to spend money now and invest in the future and ensure both good roads and good railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e662	The President must be allowed to state that the mention of government councils with the names of cartoon characters is obviously not parliamentary. It is possible that the representative thought it was unruly funny, but it should be possible to refer to the Councils of State from the European Parliament, and, for that matter, to colleagues, in a more appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e665	It was the representative of Hoksrud who made me take the floor. I was a little worried that both hearing and vision were a little weakened, because obviously you have not understood or read that phase-in has been used in NTP. But then I understand, after Hoksrud's last post, that he has read it anyway, but that he is concerned. When we worked with the National Transport Plan, the construction industry was also involved in phase-in, because there were challenges with great fluctuations in terms of how fast you could do more. The construction industry simply asked for an escalation, so they were given the opportunity to invest and make the steps that would be needed to use more money. The Road Director also points to the challenges they have had with regard to having planning capacity in relation to the escalation of investment in the road sector in recent years. So I think, with my best will, that we're going to have a drag on investments both on the road and on the road in the future, but we have to do it at a pace that allows the industry to get on with the projects that are in the national transport plan. New funding solutions are the Center Party very concerned that we're going to discuss the future. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport has launched the research project. Personally, I don't feel any allergy to OPS solutions, but the problem is it's getting more expensive. We have a lot of research that shows that this actually doesn't pay off, and then we have a challenge. Instead, we have to find other models, which make us get fast progress, and that it pays for us as a nation to do it. Finally, I want to repeat that 100 billion. kr more in today's national transport plan than in the previous one is a lot of money. Now it still has to be implemented. Now we're going to use the funds, and we're going to let the projects that are there benefit the whole country. And then we'll have to discuss up to a solution when we're rolling out the National Transport Plan in 2013, which involves other solutions, possibly, and stepping up funds there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e678	It is interesting that the Council of State criticises former labour party governments for not following up NTP, because only former worker party governments have had the opportunity to follow up their own NTP proposals. The Bondevik government didn't have a common NTP, they had a Sem statement, which I've said many times from this pulpit, and which was fulfilled. Gorm Kjernli is concerned with the revised national budget and says that we are strengthening the rail system here, and that people are busy with travellers and goods. Then I wonder: is that why you finance almost all the effort within the railway field to take dividends from the NSB, an NSB that has been so shaken during the winter that they had absolutely needed to keep their money themselves? So to the Bjørnface, as arousing enough, she says that she agrees with Fredriksen in almost everything he says. There was an eye-catching news here today, I see. And then she says she can't agree that debt financing is a good solution. No, debt financing is a priority for long-term projects. And if there's someone who's going into debt financing, it's this government. Never have we financed more money in Norway than we do now. It's different than the government that does, but they welcome it. Toll financing is known as debt financing in full. So that OPS is not a dangerous road, and that the experience of other countries also shows it. Then I wonder, ‘ What other country are you looking for? ’ In the outside world that I at least relate to and read a little about, this is not the case – rather the opposite. Success is so great that there is now a separate directive in the European Union on how to do this now. It will be exciting to see if there will be a commitment also to the Workers' Party here in Norway. OPS is about three things: it is about faster realisation, it is about faster implementation, and it is about an investment cost that is allocated over many years, up to 25 years, as society else does on almost all other investment projects, and as we do in our own households. Then I also have to take a little walk into the Progress Party, which has obviously gone on a new line by criticising those who support them in things here in the Chamber. It's clearly a new strategy, which is quite remarkable. It reminds me a little bit about the dog biting the hand that gives it food. I'm stuck with what I said about a two-hundred-billion-dollar plan in three months. Who in the world is going to produce it? What's it going to look like? Which projects will be included there? Where is the participation from outside society to get this out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e691	The representative Ingerd Schou gets the word for the third time and would normally have limited his speaking time to 1 minute. But she is the case rapporteur on the investment plan for railways and therefore gets 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e694	It is possible that it is a new line from the Progress Party that everyone should be taken in this Chamber. That way you don't make so many friends. And I think it's like for the Progress Party as for the rest of us, that if you're going to be able to make a pass for something, you have to make sure that you have a majority. So, to the representatives of Sønsterud and Bjørnflaten, who talk about organising and financing through Public Private Cooperation, there is an ‘extreme bureaucracy’. Well, that's what it's like to say: Think if it's going to give more road and rail – double tracks in the entire eastern region? The government says no, and so do the government parties. But what is a fact is that today's financing system and today's organization do not provide value for money. We also hear the same representatives argue that it is ‘rematch’ to take up the organisation of the railway works in two state companies, as proposed by the Right, so that they can take up loans on their own keel à la Telenor and Mesta, and I can mention more. Think about it giving more railway? Think about it making double tracks? Today's organization doesn't do that. Today's organization ensures that there are still simple traces in most of the eastern part, and then only the ideology is left. Think if the government could think new and offensively about NSB – Norway’s State Railways – let them get a new name? What if we could have said that it was going to be a modern transport company that had the purpose of making sure that people and goods came from A to B? Let the NSB win competitions abroad. I also have to take a small step into what is now the government's big investment in the revised national budget: taking dividends from the NSB – and the new, fresh money amounts to 1.6 million. kr. It doesn't matter how we rig the organization to build faster and more predictable, the right is still going to have fights – call it rematches. That's absolutely necessary, because it doesn't work today. And there's most people out there giving notice about that. We believe that the Railway Agency should be transformed into two state companies. In the evening post on 12 June, the need for modernisation of the railway works is also made clear, precisely by the fact that Bjørn Sund underlines and recalls how the Gardermobanen was built in its time. I hear the council argues that there were many other things that did not work in the expansion of the Gardermoban. But it's right there, and it works great. People think it's both regular and punctual. I also think that it might be wise to wind up the train monopoly, and come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e711	The Christian People's Party has nothing against being either named or taken by the Progress Party, but we would have liked to see the information that had come out for the Stortinget was correct. I then aim at the representative of Hoksrud, who says that we do not increase the road and rail routes in revised form. That's what we do. The Christian People's Party is increasing the path to road and rail in the revised national budget. But I probably don't want to use the state council's words, that we wouldn't have liked to have seen that we had more money. We don't have the experience that we have enough money, but we're increasing both by road and by rail. We have also heard that we have permission, that is what the Railway Agency is asking for and they believe they have the capacity to use in 2010. It's a paradox, I think, that there are so many people who can be content with the organisation of the Railway Agency, when we look at the results from 2009. So that's 323 million. NOK again on operation and maintenance, and it was SEK 579 million. on investments. Of the total permissions of the Railway Agency, 790 million were left unused. It seems to me that we need to look at the organization, and we need to think about it again. The representative Bear Surface states that OPS is a description of how to go backwards into the future. It is a little special that the Minister will figure out how to go backwards into the future. The point here is -- I have to say -- that this description of the Bear surface shows that it does not fully understand what OPS is. It is not a mere financing thought. There is also a thought about how we can get the projects moving faster in time, but also how we can get the projects better, and how we can get new ideas. There's a whole diet that points to this, and I think it's a paradox when I hear the Bjørnface's words. I also thought that this debate had been marked by the fact that the Progress Party is aware of the standard we have both by road and by rail in Norway. I share a part of that description, but if the description is correct, I think it's strange that we can't use tolls to improve it. Why can't users be allowed to be involved in financing? It's almost like the people who go into it are sent to Siberia, according to the Progress Party's thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e724	It's unbelievably funny to hear this draw between the bourgeois parties and the bourgeois positioning that's going on in the hall. I'm not going to go into that, they're going to have to do whatever they want. But the fact is that there is clear disagreement on a number of points in terms of the railway, and to a large extent also in terms of the main road network. But what made me take the floor was that several representatives gave me a visit. First to the representative Hoksrud and his concern: I don't know if I can do anything with the concern of the representative Hoksrud. Well, if you're from the Progress Party, you're obligated to be concerned about the program – if you're not shocked. The representative, Sjelmo Nordås, was also in this area with plans for escalating. It is true that we spent more money year by year from 2005 to 2009, both for rail and road investment. There was an escalation in the day-to-day NTP. We still have that escalation in 2010, and we're going to keep doing that. If it makes the representative Hoksrud less concerned, I don't know, but that's now at least the case. The railroad company gets the money they're asking for. I also have a concern, and this is a plan – or a lack of plans – for the Railway Agency as a result of having been hungry for many years. It's not just building, you have to have the plans in place. It will be the main challenge of the Railway Agency in the future to build what we have said to build. So getting the plans in place is important. In the revised budget, it is 210 million. additional maintenance in addition to redispatching and re-disposal of unused funds in 2009. That's $64 million. kr in new fresh funds for Oslo–Ski, not SEK 1,6 million. kr to which the representative Schou referred. I don't know how she's been able to figure it out. Both the representative Schou and the representative Halleraker were in favour of dividends from the NSB. Here I think I have to help the right a little bit with the memory. Do you not remember what they themselves proposed in connection with the 2010 state budget, where they made up for a greater benefit from the NSB than the government provided in the State budget? So when it comes to the claim that the government is taking more profits from the NSB, you have to remember that the Right even suggested a greater profit from the NSB than the government made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e739	The representative Arne Sortevik is given the floor for the third time, but is the rapporteur in one of the cases and is therefore given 3 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e742	A final round of an important debate on two important proposals for rail and road respectively, which will provide clear, long-term and predictable funding. It will be the Advance Party, but it is the clear reservations against from the other parties, with slightly different premises. In our view, it's not going to be an economic pressure when we modernise the road network and the rail network. On the contrary, it is precisely a modernisation that will bring less pressure and will increase value creation. In terms of capacity, this cannot be the case, at least we believe, that there should be the tradesets and Norwegian construction industries that dimension road and rail development in Norway. We, as development experts, point out that there is capacity in both areas to pick up abroad. This is what we see in many other countries when large projects are being built. Loan financing has been discussed. It is quite right, as some have pointed out, that the extensive use of tolls to which the drivers are exposed is, in fact, a forced debt financing. It's a forced purchase of the road for hire – terribly expensive for the drivers. We believe that one of the important instruments to be used when the state increases its funding of the road network is government loans to state enterprises, i.e. state-owned enterprises. It gives you a faster expansion. The economy of this technical sector is that the annual instalments and interest on these loans are covered by annual government budgets. But then you'll see that it closes the room for action, it closes the room for action of government and ministry. But the space of action that you so vigorously defend here is a waiting room for everyone who needs transport. Refusal and refusal to use a scheme of State loans to the Road Administration and State loans to the Railway Agency financed from annual budgets prevents faster deployment, prevents clear funding, prevents the long-term modernisation of the road and rail networks, and provides unpredictable funding for the modernisation of the road and rail networks. This system will modify the progress of the application. We were reminded of how important it is to change it in the article I referred to in my first post, where Bjørn Sund in the evening post last Saturday says something like that we can't continue like this. The progress party will not continue in this way either. We want to distinguish between spending and investment, and we want to build much faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e758	First and foremost, Mr Hareide, the chairman of the Committee, who asks why we cannot use more toll funding. It is such that in the next decade the drivers will pay into taxes and tolls over 700 billion. kr. What's going to be invested on the road is about. 219 B.C.E. kr. It's a number that comes from the government itself. Most people experience it as much more than enough in terms of taxes and taxes. Most people out there have no understanding that a state that runs over with money is going to send the bill down to the smallest man in the street. So to the representative Schou, who says she doesn't fully understand who the Progress Party wants to be friends with. Well, this isn't a question of who you want to be friends with, but it's actually a reminder of how the Right sees themselves as wanting to fund the development of the tribal network in Norway, including that the representative Schou himself has gone out and said to her that it is unthinkable to toll financing the tribal network. Then you would like to know what it is in the right opinion in such a type of case. Only the Progress Party will have a national investment plan for the main road network, and only the Progress Party will have a national railway investment plan. Government funding for this, which we use, is not just a good solution, it's also the only one. The alternative is to send the bill to the drivers, which the Progress Party does not want. At the same time, we see what other people's solutions have resulted from the decline, lag and lack of new investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e772	Bård Hoksrud has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e775	I record that in several debates we have seen that the facts have not been exactly what the realities are. At least I think it's important to be honest with the facts, and if you've made a mistake, you have to admit it. But now I have also quality assured with the representative Hareide, and it is such that the Christian People's Party does not use a single crown in addition to the government's framework in the revised budget for this year. I think that's right. Then you have to be honest that that's what the actual ratios are. What I said was that you didn't bring a single penny in addition to the money that was available from the government. The fact that Hareide is for tolls gets to the point of being Hareide's challenge. I believe that when the drivers pay in billions more than what they get back to, I don't want to introduce toll stations and knock people down with new taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e782	I got right in my first post. There has not been much new in this debate in relation to debates we have had in the past. But to the representative Hoksrud, who took this up with different countries. To put it that way, we agree, of course, that we have major challenges on the way. There is no disagreement in this room. We have a big focus on it. But it almost sounds like we live in a developing country. I have to say that when we see it in a little international context, I think it's right that we're viewed as living in different countries. But I think it's then with a slightly more positive sign, to say it that way. So a few words about OPS. You can get the impression when you hear the debate, that this is a free lunch, that this is something that goes beyond everything else. But there is going to be a time when this will be paid back again. To the representative Hareide: I mentioned the United Kingdom in my first post here. Yeah, it's pay-back time. They've tied up a lot of those projects in their government finances. It's not going to get away. They are now obliged to do so. Then to Schou and transformation, separation and liberation. She again uses Mesta as an example of how successful these conversions are. It is almost impossible to believe – and it is possible that this is a small parliamentary expression – but it must be allowed to ask if they are joining the class. On 9 March we examined the Riksrevision's investigation into the operation and maintenance of the road network. The report shows that the objectives of the reform, reducing costs, have not been achieved in any way. On the contrary, expenditure has increased. The standard of road maintenance has fallen, and administrative costs have increased. The National Audit Office points to a lack of reporting on the state of operation of the road network, a low level of control and poor follow-up — and that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e793	I would like to underline the points made by the representative Sønsterud in his speech. It is absolutely right that it was the Stoltenberg I Government that started the first OPS projects in Norway. These are also subject to ex post evaluation. What they're showing is that it doesn't go much faster, it doesn't get much cheaper, and the experience from both Norway and other countries is that it leads to a huge bureaucracy, especially with regard to the conclusion of the contract, because you have to make sure against things that come later. Sonderud is also quite right that OPS projects in several countries have led to major problems because it has tied up the action space later on. These contracts shall be paid out one day. As a result, several countries have had problems with the reduction of the room for action. For example, Hungary is: one more example in a country where OPS projects are now very critical, in addition to the United Kingdom. So the representative says Hareide that I don't understand what alternative funding is. I believe that with his statements he demonstrates it – I don't know if I should say for the sake of friendship – the same lack of understanding. For project financing or alternative funding, so much more is than OPS, and that's what we're concerned about. That is why the Minister for Transport has launched a research project, just to illuminate and produce projects other than OPS. Having own records on the state budget is just such an example. Then there's been a lot of debate about who's most concerned. I have to say that I'm really worried when I hear the old Bondevik II comrades talking about reorganization. Sonderud was concerned with the result of the reorganisation of the State Road Service, which has led to an increase in operating and maintenance costs, and that the prices of functional contracts in many counties have now increased by more than 90 p.m., far beyond what had been introduced as an increase in line with standard requirements. Another example is the reorganisation of the Railway Agency, which was carried out by the Bondevik II administration, which led to a large number of people – those with skills that we needed today – receiving final packages. Today, there are people with signal skills working as bartenders in Thailand. We should have had them here so that we could get the construction of sections that we now have to postpone because we lack competence. So when the Bondevik II comrades talk about reorganization and want us to focus on it instead of implementing and building out, investing and investing in maintenance at a demanding time for the Railway Agency and the State Road Service, I become seriously concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e804	The next speaker is Ingerd Schou. The representative, Mr Schou, is the author of the case and is therefore given the floor despite the fact that it is the fourth time. She'll have three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e807	I also thought I'd hopefully be the last one. I just want to make some comments, and I want to start with the Bjørnface's last article. After 14 days in the chair, the government stopped and postponed the hui and the rapid modernisation of the railway works without impact assessment, without assessing the consequences. That is what is serious and what is worrying. So to the representative, Kernli, who says that the railway company gets the money they are asking for. The railway works are unable to use the money they receive. The railway works lack plan capacity and level competence. So the railway system, as it appears today, is unable to meet the needs of most people in order to get to work in time – double tracks throughout the eastern region. As regards the revision and the government's investment, there were also dividends from the NSB under the Bondevik II Government. The question is whether the government's argument about big bets with new fresh funds holds when most of the bets actually come from this dividend, and the countdown is about 1.6 million. kr in fresh new funds. So to Sønsterud, who in his opening memo today talked about using public–private funding was payment on payment. Is that it? Or is it that there's something wrong with that? From the Right, we see that it is the total burden on the economy that determines the amount of different types of financial instruments and an assessment of what Norway can tolerate as a nation in relation to the total economy, and that it is not possible to use freely and want all new forms of funding to the extent that Norway cannot tolerate it. Then it's about priority, and it's done to the right. We're prioritizing double tracks in the intercity triangle. With today's financing mechanism, we see that it will be more than 30 years before it will happen, but we believe that this should have been done over a decade. It is also the case that the total economy in Norway depends on the availability of a team to build and drive a new road. It is also a matter of temporary missions for crews from abroad, where appropriate. There is no lack of money, says the Council of State. Public Private Cooperation is more than funding – it is a separate form of work. It's about building the entire stretch continuously and telling people what date you can expect this double track to be finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e822	The representative Halleraker has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e825	I want to clear up a completely obvious error from the Bear Surface, which said that the OPS project is not being realized more quickly. If everyone agrees, it is that they are realized more quickly — in fact in the mid-term — and it is also stated in the evaluation report. So it would be wrong if it were left after this debate. So to the Fredriksen and the Advance Party, who throws out criticism to the Right. I think a minimum measure before criticising other people's policies is to get involved in the policies that others are pursuing. Fredriksen obviously cannot have read our comments on either the national transport plan or the Right's own transport plan with 23 points. Moreover, the contribution of the Progress Party to transport in the revised national budget is not exactly impressive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e832	The representative Hareide has also spoken earlier and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e836	I just want to make a short comment on Hoksrud's last post, which I'm all the more pleased with than he thought before that post. The point was very simple, because when he says that the Christian People's Party does not increase the promises of the revised national budget, that is not true. We are increasing in the same way as the government is doing, and as the government has said, the railway works are getting the funds they are asking for in 2010. I'm glad, and I hope they won't use them up in 2010, because with what we've been doing, there's a great deal of need for it. If we were to conclude briefly, this was a debate on reorganization. I started my main post talking about Avinor. In any case, I am pleased to note that no one wants Avinor to return to its old form of organisation. Many are happy with Avinor today. They deliver better, and they have freedom of action. I would also like to apply to road and track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e843	Let me start by commenting on Avinor. Because it's true that even though Avinor is a 100 pst. public limited liability companies, they also have their framework conditions. When they now consider Terminal 2, they must have a concession from the Department, and we must evaluate this concession based on Avinor's financial framework conditions. Then I record from this debate that the pressure in the economy is a foreword to the Progress Party – I take that as an orientation – and that Right thinks that people see a government without action. Then let me just, for the sake of order, tell you what project is currently running. I refer to road projects estimated at more than 500 million. kr. It is E18 Krosby–Knapstad, E18 Sky–Landgang, E39 Kvivsvegen, rv. 13/rev. 7 Hardangerbrua, rv. 13 Fossepaket, E6 Dal–Minnesund, E6 Øyer–Tretten, E6 Nordre relief road in Trondheim, rv. 150 wolf split, E18 Bjørvika, E6 Nidelv Bru. When rail is concerned, double-track Lysaker – Sandvika is scheduled to be completed in 2011, Sandnes – Stavanger is finished, remote control Mosjøen – Bodø, Gevingåsen tunnel on Trønderbanen, double-track Barkåker – Tønsberg, Oslo project, and in the next case, Stortinget hopefully joins the start-up at Holm – Holmestrand – Nykirke. In addition to this, I have a long list of 26 drafts ordered. Most of them will be completed in 2010. It says something about both what we're following right now, and how we're going to follow up on our national transport plan. And then I'll say in the end, it's the lack of maintenance that worries me the most. That's what makes it significant extras for the Railway Agency in the revised version. That's also what makes us have to pay special attention to the maintenance contracts, especially the road maintenance contracts. We're going to have to pay a lot of attention to that in the future, so we're going to have more maintenance for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e854	Arne Sortevik is the author of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox So he gets the word for an article of 3 minutes. That's his fourth post, the president will note.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e857	I know that, and I'll try to be short. Now it was the Council of State that made a small contribution – to balance the production a little. When we hear the scrapping list of projects in progress, it is reasonable to recall that a number of the largest projects on that list have mainly been paid by the drivers. It is the coercive purchase of the road for hire, so that the contribution of the drivers is significantly greater than the contribution entered into the investment itself. Then it's probably also important for completeness and overview to remember that there are some projects that are not in progress, that are in fact adopted and discussed and that are part of plans but are not in progress. I would like to remind you of a project that I am very concerned about, namely the E39 coastal line between Os and Bergen, where we are still waiting, and we do not understand why we need to wait any longer. Finally, there are a number of projects that have not been included, at least in the National Transport Plan Action Programme. They have not actually joined the national transport plan at all. The need to speed up the modernisation of the road network is unquestionably felt by the Progress Party. There is also a need to clarify funding, obtain predictable, clear and long-term funding. And it is necessary to look at the use of money in road construction as an investment, but that not every year good road projects are set up for all other good purposes in a twelve-month state budget that swaps good investment purposes for all other good purposes. It's going to be completely wrong. As long as we keep doing that, we'll never get on. I repeat what Bjørn Sund said in the evening post on Saturday: "We cannot have that."
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e868	Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e871	Briefly to the representative Halleraker, who made some statements on our revised budget: it is that we are dealing with the revised budget. That is why we are going to go into funds where we see that there is a need to correct a budget, both in terms of the ashtray problem and not least in terms of natural disasters and race, of which we have had a lot this year. I would also like to inform the representative, Mr Halleraker, that the proposal we are discussing today is 200 billion. kr to a binding road investment plan and approx. 60 B.C.E. kr to railway – four days before revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e878	I'll just give you two short comments. The one is a response to the representative Arne Sortevik and owes E39 and the ferry-free coastal route. It is not to be avoided that the Progress Party in today's debate stands alone in a number of points of view that relate to the development of roads and roads. They do not, of course, do so when a ferocious coastal line is involved. There's the whole Stortingen gathering to get a ferry-free coastal line on the West. So we have ordered a concept evaluation, which we are now following closely. Then Arne Sortevik used the word "crucifixion" about what I read here. He must be allowed to do that. But it's actually a fact-finding list. There is a list of projects that have been started, costing more than 500 million. kr. The second list is a list of the concepts you have ordered. E39 is one of many here. Blackevik said, press out. Yes, I can confirm that. The more important it is that the government follows up. What is represented in the national transport plan is government funding of 322 billion. tolls and tolls based on local initiatives to ensure that even more projects are realised. There I know the pressure, and there it will be submitted to Stortinget several new things beyond the cottage. Here's a common engagement around the country to secure a better path.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e889	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 4208]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e905	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e914	The so-called pooling proposition deals with a number of aspects of the Ministry of Transport. The Committee supports the proposed position on many points. However, I will comment on one aspect where there are divergent views, and that concerns the environmental package for Trondheim. The Trondheim environment package is a comprehensive and offensive commitment to infrastructure measures, public transport measures, road safety measures, among others. major development of bicycle paths and environmental and service measures. The activity is increasing in 2010 than planned and the government is following up local decisions and disposals to increase the effort within the package by about 90 million. kr more in tolls. This ensures, inter alia: 25 million funds for design and planning. SEK for bicycle travel measures, including: to the cross-connection Lade, and the pedestrian and cycle path between Søndre gate and Ilevollen, and 26 million. kr for public transport measures. The majority of the population, the three red-green batches, have previously emphasised that we are satisfied that such a large proportion of the environmental package goes to public transport and road safety measures. It is also clarified in this setting, while stressing that the economic share of public transport is not reduced, even if the major projects in the package are more expensive than expected. I will also give tribute to the municipality of Trondheim and to the municipality of Sør-Trøndelag County for the introduction of time-differentiated toll rates. Thus, Trondheim becomes the first major cities to implement traffic reduction measures. Experiences from, among others: Stockholm is very positive, and cow pricing is an important element in limiting climate emissions from the transport sector. I have recorded that there is a large local disagreement about the location of the toll stations. However, this is a result of local decisions, and I am confident that the best possible solutions for this are also available locally. I am very pleased that the government ensures a continuation of the operation on the Bratsberg Railway. There has been a strong local commitment on this matter, and we have received many enquiries in the committee. It is therefore positive that the government is now concluding an agreement with the Telemark County Municipality on the continuation of operations. It is also very positive that the government ensures earlier start-up of the freight terminal in Bodø. The conversion is important in view of the strategy adopted by the NTP to double rail freight capacity by 2020 and is particularly important in order to transport more goods both on trains and on refrigerators. I'm not going to mention all the points in the pooling proposition, just to point out that the committee, as I said, is behind major and important features of it, and that it is an important matter, not least to ensure the progress of the ambitious investment plans that are both on the road and on the road. I will not go into that debate any more, for we have debated that in detail earlier today, but this is also an important matter in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e935	I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter and the proposals of the Progress Party have with others. This applies, as the rapporteur said, to a number of cases in the Ministry of Transport. I'm going to turn on my script and take aviation in the end. We have some other comments, such as: in the case of reclassification of national roads in the border area, where we point out that traffic is transferred to areas with more traffic. We have both comments and suggestions related to the Trondheim package, which in our eyes is not an environmental package, but a camouflaged toll package to get money for urban development. We have noticed that there is a derogation for residents of Weather and Rock. Of course, we are happy about that. The best exemption system is to release tolls. The Progress Party considers that the general exemption rules in the State Road Service should be reviewed in the light of the strong increase in the number of toll-financed projects. We believe that this should be done in order to ensure local areas and to counter unreasonable additional costs due to the introduction of tolling arrangements on the neighbouring county or national roads. We assume that the same attendance from the Directorate of Road and the Ministry of Transport as shown in the Trondheim package will benefit others. We think there will be more applications. We know that there are residents elsewhere in the country who feel surrounded and encircled by tolls, who are preparing exemption applications, and we assume that such applications will be met. We have references to the development and financing of fv. 45. We've noticed that the toll load is increasing. We want the state to pay that increase. The same applies to fv. 64, Atlantic Tunnel. In terms of rail purposes, we have both comments and suggestions about the local traffic on the Bratsberg Railway, which we in the Progress Party, together with the Christian People's Party, would like to have incorporated into the system of state purchase of passenger transport by train. Finally, a few words about aviation. First, I would like to point out that we have put in the revised budget extra funds to cover some of the extra costs that the airlines incurred in the ash situation. But what matters first and foremost to me today, when this opportunity comes to pass, is the ongoing strike. So now, aviation, and all of us who use this kind of transport, first experienced a financial crisis, which was difficult for the airlines, then the ash situation came, which was difficult for both airlines and passengers, and now that we've got a pretty good start, it seems that it can stop completely again. It seems that the strike can eventually stop all the airports and thus paralyze all the air transport in Norway. My strong call to the Council of State is for her, together with her colleague in the field of labour market, to take the initiative to press the parties. We do not in any way believe that it should be prohibited to strike, or that one should enter too quickly. However, pressure can be exerted, and heavy pressure can be exerted on parties when a conflict based on one particular profession has large and extensive national consequences – not only for all those using collective air transport on a daily basis, but also in fact, and not least, for operators in aviation. The airlines have now been tormented by heavy losses through the ash situation. So now they can imagine big problems again, because the airports close. That situation should not be allowed to develop further. So I repeat that there is a strong call from the Progress Party to the Council of States to put pressure on the parties, and not to wait too long before responding to a conflict that has major national consequences. Let me remind you that we are running the tourist season for the longest time, also for Norway. We have, we hope, many incoming passengers from abroad – despite the financial crisis. It's important that we get them in. If the airports stop, a lot of that traffic is also stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e961	This is a kind of thing that we get from the government every year at this time of year. This is largely a rational way of making the necessary budgetary and other adjustments that require decision-making or orientation. So far, everything's good. The right also largely adheres to the government's proposals, although I have to say that one of the measures, namely extended arrangements for the development and financing of FVO. 45 in Gäsdal, is so extensive and large that it might have deserved to come as a matter of its own. Actually, this is a new and 100 pst. extended project – and funding. But the Right supports the proposal, so I'm not going to spend any more time on it – just thank local authorities and road users in the area for taking on the financial burden. I always do that in toll projects. However, the issue of the environmental package for transport in the Trondheim area — the start of measures and the disposal of tolls in 2010 — has aroused our interest. In the Right’s proposal for the Environment Package for Transport in Trondheim, the Right opposed the introduction of a rush-time charge in the city. We believe this is a charge that penalises the necessary transport in connection with work, and is an extra burden, especially on commuters from the peripheral municipalities to Trondheim, such as Melhus, Skaun, Orkdal and Malvik. In the context of the Trondheim environmental package, a number of measures were put in place to reduce traffic and urban pollution, including the removal of the former 2+ fields for the benefit of purely collective fields. After all, it is a system with which you have good experience in Bergen, among other things. These measures have led to an increase or stability in the pollution of central urban streets. The queue problems have been solved. A number of measures are now being implemented in parallel with the opening of the package, which includes the northern route of unloading, and this reduces the capacity of the urban road network. Overall, this threatens to make Trondheim’s centre less attractive to traders, and the measures may in the long term force urban trade into car-based shopping centres outside the city centre. Right-wing wants a different development. We therefore ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals on how the state can contribute to the fact that part II of the environmental package for transport in Trondheim can lead to more efficient traffic management, less pollution and, at the same time, contribute to maintaining the centre of Trondheim as a living commercial centre. Instead of criticising parties that support us, we are very pleased that the Progress Party has joined on the Right's two original proposals in this matter. I am not sure if they were promoted when Sortevik had the word. In case I don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e972	The representative Arne Sortevik has already taken up the suggestions Øyvind Halleraker referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e975	A little heartache about the Advance Party and the Tolls: In the Christian People's Party, they have a confessional paragraph that makes if one is a Muslim, like for example. Akhtar Chaudhry, our president, doesn't have a place there. But in the party's confession paragraph, which is to be against tolls, gets a continuation in their servitude. There can be a sitting with power in Oslo and in Os and around different municipalities and still retain their work, despite the fact that one has done a mortal sin – according to the Progress Party here – and voted for the toll project. I think this inconsistency is strange when it comes to such an insanely important case for the Progress Party – that one actually has spokespersons who are in favour of this “robbery” of drivers, that one allows it in the Progress Party, and that they can continue to be members. I must say that surprises me, when one hears the tone one has in tolls. But you can explain why. So in the previous case, I got no explanation as to why the Progress Party was the newest member of the railway policy. There are railway matters in this case as well. So for the Progress Party, cut into all the railway lines before this budget -- and maybe the previous one -- billions of dollars, and then one now stands out as a freshman on the railway, which was once a socialist project. I have still not been given any explanation for this new orientation, this new release, from the Progress Party's side. But it may have something to do with the fact that most people are for rail in Norway, and that the Progress Party would like to be on the team with most people. At least that's what they say. Finally, a little about Right and chanting. So the right has entered into a climate agreement here on the Stortinget, where all the parties, the non-participating Progress Party, are involved. Now we hear that right around, at least some places – in Bergen they're split, they're probably also in Trondheim – going against this co-pricing, i.e. a scheme that in Stockholm turned out to be moving 23 pst. of traffic by car away from the road and across in other means of transport, including public transport. Then it's very strange, I thought, when both the business community in Norway and the environmental movement and most of the parties say that this is what we want in Norway as well, because this is actually effective, that right-hand side of it. Right is no longer the business party they say they are. Now it is suddenly SV who must defend the NHO in Norway and good measures for climate change. So here, Right and Halleraker have a very big problem, given that they actually signed a climate deal, and that they're countering the business and environmental movement in Norway at this important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e988	Since we have a review paragraph, I will confess that the Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal in this matter. I only want to name a few things. One is Bratsbergbanen. The Bratsberg Railway is a path that was laid down in 2000, under the Stoltenberg I government, and as the Bondevik II government found a good deal for the county council, and I am now very happy that the government has done the same, in a good dialogue. I understand that there was a meeting yesterday when two councillors were present, and that was experienced as very constructive and well. It is very good that we have a good solution in place for the Bratsberg Railway. However, I would like to mention two things that I think are important. The only thing is that we're able to increase traffic, and that we're getting good counting. Today, there is an uncertain number of people who use the path, but it should be a larger number than what we have today. Therefore, the objective should be to have 100 000 passengers on this track. Then I also thought it natural that we would go in as part of the rest of the train service in Norway, and therefore support under the Progress Party's good proposal in that matter. I also want to learn Trondheim. I share the case-speaker Bjørnface's description of this matter, not least that of toll stations and their assessments there. And I'm going to say that this isn't exactly a whole new thing. We have had many cities that have had tolls that have had a traffic control effect. I would also like to make a final comment to Oslopackak 3. I note that the agreement there means that the matter will be dealt with in the State budget for 2011, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1003	Total Protocol 127 S is an expression of the width in the Ministry of Transport and the local exposure to new measures. First of all, in More and Romesdal, the Atlantic Tunnel is finished. There was a crash during work, extra work was done, and an additional cost had to be covered. The racial section of the Heart Mountain will secure design and preparatory work in 2010. In Rogaland, the Solasflitten, a new and important road link between E 39, Stavanger Airport and Risavika port can be realized. Road 45 is extended for tolls for important repairs in Gésdal and Sirdal in West Agder. Furthermore, we report that we come back with information on Oslopackakt 3 in the 2011 budget, but we also invite the Stortinget to decide on the launch of measures and the disposal of tolls in 2010 in relation to the Environmental Package for Transport in Trondheim, in line with local initiatives and wishes. This also includes proposals for a major project on the modernisation of the driving licence and motor vehicle register. To the path is the smaller and larger project. Wet-locked crossing tracks on the Dovre track are happy in themselves, and planned to finish work there in 2012. The Bodø freight terminal is being started earlier than will be launched. So there's these two railway things, which are very different, but important separately. One is Bratsbergbanen. The last day for Bratsbergbanen was to be 13 June, because the county council no longer saw itself able to finance him in line with previous agreements, but the Bratsbergbanen is then secure four and a half new years from yesterday, with the provisions that there is an increase in passenger numbers. Then the government also asks for support for start-up on the double-track Holm–Holmestrand–Nykker, and I am pleased with the support that has been given. So it's a very big project over 5 billion. kr itself, which can then be started. I must never take such a small amount of rest even today, but it now seems that it can begin during the period that the Oslo tunnel will be shut down, and that one can thus exploit the effect of it, i.e. get some work done on the project Holm–Holmestrand–Nykkerke. Hard reason tells you this to have to be checked very carefully before starting. But there's a project that's going to mean a lot for the Vestfold track. So I'll also use the ability to say a few words about asphalting. There's something that doesn't come out of this proposition, but it's a matter of which the Storting is busy, and it's a work that people are going to meet even now in the summer, from state to state. There I gave a number of 1,000 km in the spontaneous Question Time in May. It was estimated by the Directorate of Roads. As I was in my previous post, it happens that we don't get as much out of maintenance equipment as we put it. Now this is calculating very carefully. The total number is also not 850 km, which I have also given in response. The total number of kilometres for 2010 will now be 836 km, according to the Road Directorate's calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1026	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1029	From Asphalt to Ash: In terms of financial measures related to the ash crisis, the government says that it is not necessary, but that it will follow the situation closely in the future and assess measures if it considers it necessary. We now have a situation that is deteriorating, which is developing to the worse almost day by day, and is now paralysing air traffic in Norway. Too many airports are already closed. Both operators, i.e. airlines, and not least travellers are increasingly affected. How long will the Government look at this? How long will the Government wait at least to put a strong pressure on the parties to find a solution as soon as possible, so as to avoid this strike continuing and to avoid extending its impact on air carriers, air carriers and road users in aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1037	Crise crisis really reminded us, in our eagerness to put in place different measures, including on the transport sector, that nature sets its limits. But I should just like to inform you that there is good and constructive cooperation at European and international level with a view to preventing future events. When it comes to social conflicts, it is a matter with which the representative Sortevik is well known. I hear what he says. There is also an area where the government follows closely. But I can't answer his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1044	So now it's not nature, it's the weights, and it's a strike that evolves from day to day, and it has great consequences. Finally, in my post, I pointed out that it has consequences not only for Norwegian travellers in Norway, but for all incoming flights to Norway. We hope that there will be a lot of people during this summer and during this tourist season that have just started. That is why, in the opinion of the Progress Party, we should not sit still and look at developments, but at least put pressure on the parties. It is my call to the Minister for Transport, who is responsible for aviation, that, together with her colleague in charge of the field of work, she put pressure on the parties to come closer to a solution, not seeing a further escalated and prolonged conflict with major consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1051	I'm assuming that I sort between the two themes in my reply, first cards to wish clouds and then over on today's strike, which you have a very different reason. So I just have to repeat once again that I'm listening to Black Week's call. This conflict is justified in a matter between the social partners, and the government is closely following this situation. When there's a strike, there's always some getting rammed. Therefore, there are always assessments related to it. Then it's life and health that are criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1058	The environmental package in Trondheim is presented as a success. The representatives who claim it may not have been much in Trondheim lately. Because had they been in Trondheim lately, they had discovered three effects of this environmental package. Point 1: Pollution has increased. Point 2: The queue problems have increased. Point 3: Road network capacity reduced. I have great expectations for the Council of State when the Environmental Package step 2 is presented, and hope the Council of State will remove the unfortunate results that we are now seeing. Will the Council of State look at the possibility of removing the Toll Station from the Guards? And will the Council of State also be involved in the removal of the rush time charge, which punishes families with young children and other families, who have to deliver in kindergarten and at school in order to get to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1065	The environmental package in Trondheim is in a start-up phase. Several of the projects are missing plan clearance. Tolls need to be introduced in 2010 for planning. Then there is also a set of funds for the design of the project E6 Zentervegen–Tonstad, the purchase of land and the preparation of the work. Then it is planned to start building some bicycle roadside measures, traffic security measures and environmental measures with tolls in 2010. This is how it is planned to dispose of all the tolls that have been imposed in 2010. Then the representative is quite right that there is a number of questions that need to be clarified in the Environmental Package step 2. I argued that there would be good discussions, local initiatives and decisions in connection with it, which we have the opportunity to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1072	I thank you for the answer, but I didn't get much wiser from that answer. There was no answer to the questions I asked. But let me put it this way: when you see such unfortunate consequences, both increased cows, increased pollution and reduced capacity on the road network, it does mean that the Right was right in its criticism, which we promoted exactly a year ago, that it was an irresponsible treatment of this matter when the government pushed it through in a few days in the Storting. That's why we see such unfortunate effects. Will the Council of State ensure that when the Environmental Package step 2 is promoted, the government will go much deeper into that work and do a much better job before the issue is promoted in the Stortinget? What will the government do to put forward a proposal that leads to less pollution, so that you can maintain Trondheim as a living trading place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1079	Let me say three things. Firstly, the Environmental Package in Trondheim is in a start-up phase. Resources have now been introduced to be used for planning, design and environmental measures, which will provide better self-sufficiency for the next phase, namely the Environmental Package step 2. So my recommendation to the Right will be to engage locally, both in terms of pollution, pricing and capacity on the roads. I have argued that before we get a case in the department, there has been a thorough discussion locally, so that we have a good basis for the assessments that we are going to make, and for a matter that is being put before the Stortinget. So the answer is that we carried out a thorough clarification and discussion locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1084	I registered that the State Council also said in its article that Oslo Package 3 will return to the State budget for 2011. The joy in Oslo and Akershus is that we see an increase in the use of public transport. It applies both in Oslo and Akershus. It poses some challenges for the financing of Oslopackak 3, because we have seen a positive, I say, decline in the use of private car rental, but it creates funding challenges. There are several ways to solve this. My question is, how does the Council of State think that we should address the challenges of a positive increase in public transport for the financing of some road packages?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1089	Oslopack 3 is a very project, with many different measures, on which the leaders of the committee were involved. The Steering Group has recently sent a proposal for an action programme for the period 2011–2014 for treatment in the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County Municipality. It has been suggested that Akershu County Council should deal with Saka no in June, and the Municipality of Oslo in August. For me, it would be neat to await the treatment that the action programme now receives in the local and regional elected bodies. So I'm going to get back to this matter in the State budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1094	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1099	It's nice to be described as being saved on the railway. I'm not going that far. I'm very happy in the railroad, I'm very happy in the asphalt, and I'm very happy in the railroad tracks. I think it's great to drive on a at least four-field highway and just sneeze over for 100 kilometers per hour. I should like to see that we could use 120 as well. I'm happy in aviation, I'm happy in maritime transport. The party of progress is also happy in the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland, because he challenged us on this. But the difference is that in 2004, you had slightly different assumptions than you do in 2010. As a result, the Progress Party chose to give priority. But now we have some completely different possibilities than what we had at the time. We are happy in the railways, and we believe that the railway should work where it has competitive power and can compete with other modes of transport. That's what the Progress Party thinks is great. So we want the railway to be able to compete where it has competitive power, just like the other modes of transport, and let customers choose which mode of transport you want to use. That's why it's perfectly natural that we have to bet on the IC triangles in the Eastern region. So let's do that. That is why it is good that we gradually get some clarifications about the Westfold track and other sections. In connection with this matter, I would like to take a little round about Rv. 36 and reclassification. I mean, it's really great. But that gives the way that is now classified into a tribal road, major challenges, as the road passes straight through residential areas, with dwellings on either side of the road. This means that it is important to have full pressure that investments need to be made on the path that is now being upgraded, but investment must also come on the path that is now being downgraded. Then I'm very fond of the Bratsberg track. This shows that it is sometimes beneficial, with a tough and heavy pressure from the entire political environment in Telemark – from all political camps – to get good solutions. We are very pleased about that. When it comes to adult education – and I would like to give the representative Langeland adult education – I will stop here, I think I have to give it up, at least when I know how short I have of speaking time. This with tolls I am absolutely sure that the representative Langeland and I will discuss a lot in the future. It is therefore the case that the Progress Party is opposed and is voting against toll projects – and they are actually adopted here in this Chamber. A lot of people in this room think of it as blackmail, and it's a perception that you're being pressured to vote for something you're against locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1115	It was clear from the Progress Party why one has cut the railways for many years – and cut billions – and that would have made rail even more difficult if the budgets of the Progress Party had been up over the years had been adopted. But now one of the sides have changed – and come over to the positive side. Then it must be allowed to call them the newest ones on the railway – because when you walk a new road, it's like what you're called. Then I register that there is almost a confession paragraph in the Progress Party. We know that Søviknes, the spokesman of Os, opposed the representative of Hoksrud in the elections at the national meeting, but he has then admitted that he needs tolls in order to get to Os. That confession is probably costing him the next-leader position. But one does not go as far as the Christian People's Party, where one does not allow people to have another belief. You're allowed to believe in tolls in the Progress Party. One is not allowed to vote for this in Stortinget, but it is allowed to vote for it locally. We only take note of that. Then to the Bratsberg Railway. It is very good that the government has cleaned up in relation to it. After all, it was Bondevik II who supported the budget – and then it was almost not money for the railways at all – who signed a contract with the county council for county takeover. That's where one now has to come in trouble, and that's what the red-green government is now cleaning up, as several parties in Telemark have demanded. So we hope from Stortinget and from the government that Telemark municipality and county municipality, such as. SV has demanded, ensuring that the passenger base of the Bratsberg Railway is such that it is a path that is growing – not troublesome. We're looking forward to this very important path.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1124	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4209]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1142	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4210]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1160	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4210]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1176	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1185	It is a pleasure for me to be the case rapporteur for a proposal that shows interest in the Norwegian mining industry. We in the Workers' Party have been working on a policy for the mining industry for some time, and I am both inspired and in a good mood when I see that the Right comes on the track. I cannot subscribe to all the elements launched by the proposers, but everything in all – according to the view of the Labour Party and my – is very positive. When we do not agree with the proposal, it is related to the fact that we probably need a slightly broader approach to these issues than a work on a strategy involves. But first let me thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the vote. So to the matter. Over 20 years ago, the mining industry began to demand a new and modern mineral law. Even I was so lucky to be involved in this work together with professional environments in the industry – NGU, SINTEF, Bergmeister, etc. – and we announced the conference ‘New roads for the Norwegian mining industry’. The entire industry was involved, and the Industry Committee at Stortinget took part with great enthusiasm. All the country's county geologists were there – there was only one instance that was absent, and that was the government of the country. We met with deafening silence and zero interest. This is not the occasion to dwell more on it, but it is the explanation of my joy and expectation of being able to participate in adopting a new, modern mineral law at the end of the last period. In the debate on the presentation of the new Mineral Law, the rapporteur stated the following: ‘I would also like to stress the importance of developing a national policy in this area as well. At the start of the oil adventure, we took political action as a nation to ensure sustainable management. The same should be done with regard to shore-based resources. Structured cooperation between the different environments of competence, industry and the country is needed to ensure adequate awareness and knowledge of the possibilities and hence the basis for the increased contribution of the mineral industry to activity and settlement throughout the country.’» This, I think, was very wise to say. And that's where we are now. With the absence of interest and awareness with which this industry has met in the past – until the Stoltenberg government presented its first government budget in the autumn of 2005 – I believe there is a need for a big message, a big message that addresses the full range of issues that this industry is part of. The fact that environmental challenges and also many other challenges, such as communications, land policy, etc., are almost always not to be undermined. linked to mining. And they have to be on the table. These considerations have to be weighed against each other, and it's urgent. It is urgent to place the mining industry at the table so that the interests of the industry are properly safeguarded. Europe is partly self-sufficient in industrial minerals, but entirely dependent on imports of metals. Europe consumes between 20 and 30 pst. of the world's metal production volume, but produces only 3 pst. It says something about the potential for Norway. Europe's eyes are now directed towards the Fennoscandian shield, of which North Norway is part. Further monitoring is needed here. Norway is very far away from our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, in terms of geological surveying. This is also one of the problems that there is a great need to follow up. I understand that central political environments have outsourced this industry under the oil rush we've lived in, but we can't afford it anymore. We put in place a new mineral law in the last period. Now we have to make a comprehensive policy for the mineral industry, and I think we are doing the best we can by getting a comprehensive big-time report. As we have an ambitious government on behalf of the mineral industry, I have the time – and trust – to give the ministry the necessary room for action to assess the form of such a coordinated policy. That is why the majority proposes to put this into practice, in particular, the good proposal in the Minutes. In other words, it has not been rejected, but it is proposed to be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1205	Document 8:100 S for 2009–2010 on a strategy for the Norwegian mining industry is an important issue – not because we have not had a mining industry in Norway in the past and know about it, but because we need a strategy for how to make better use of this large resource, as well as identifying occurrences, opportunities, etc. This is an industry that is a typical district industry, where business is initially relatively thin in most of the places. The mining industry exported for 7.2 billion in 2008. kr. This may not be that much, but the number is impressive when you look at the number of people employed. But the incidences and opportunities are great so that the industry can grow a lot. The history of the Norwegian mining industry is long and impressive. It's enough to mention Kongsberg, Mo in Rana and not least Røros, who are all built around this industry. Much of the traditional Norwegian mining industry is now gone, but we have a social development that still requires new raw materials and that uses mineral resources in an increasing number of new areas. Therefore, the need for minerals is increasing, and opportunities for jobs and increased income opportunities exist. It is not just a matter of being involved in this development and seeing the opportunities – at the same time, we need to be aware that the market is changing rapidly. We saw that last year, when there had been a great need for steel for years, and prices were high. Some companies made good money to travel around and buy up iron scraps, so that they could pass this on to, among other things. China. So, suddenly, the market was saturated for a while, and prices sank. The Progress Party notes that the Norwegian mining industry also believes there is a need for a strategy for mineral resources in Norway. In their report, they refer, among other things, to: Norway’s geological survey, in which they estimate the value of Norwegian minerals at 1 000 billion. kr. Only the Bjørnevatn body in Finnmark has an estimated value of more than 100 billion. kr alone. It is then understood that the values – and the possibilities – are there. Otherwise, not all of us think about what minerals we're really talking about – among other things. mineral raw materials used in different products such as PCs, mobile phones, makeup, paint, batteries, solar cells, etc., in addition to the usual ones, such as: in cement and concrete. This comes in addition to the common products of the mining industry, which is a lot different. The Mineral Act, which came in 2009, was a step in the right direction, but one must also mean something more, so that it not only becomes words. There must be a strategy and cooperation across ministerial boundaries. We talk about the North Sea effort, the energy development in the Barents Sea, and opportunities to find minerals where we didn't see the possibilities before, or where the occurrences didn't produce positive results. With today’s developments in this area too, this should now be possible. That's why we have to get this strategy up and down. The Progress Party wants this strategy to be anchored in the Stortinget and to be concrete, with proposals on how to use the resources and opportunities of the industry. This shall be seen in the short and long term. The reason why the Advance Party wants this anchoring is, among other things: the fact that the mineral law adopted in 2009 had been in force for more than 15 years. We cannot continue to do this, but quickly and with quality come up with a strategy that the mining industry can live with, and not only live with, but also give it the opportunity to grow and take care of the resources that exist. The Progress Party records, from the letters of the Council of State to the Economic and Social Committee of 29 April 2010, that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has the mining industry as one of its fields of activity. That's good, of course. But the question is whether that's enough, and how fast you work. It may be tempting to refer to what might be a scandal about Svalbard, where the government has kept a report secret for 15 months. This is not good, and no matter what is right and wrong, it does not deserve the case. I note that the case rapporteur is satisfied with the proposal, but I think it is a pity that the government parties will not support the proposal. Finally, I would like to say that the Advance Party wants the industry to have good framework conditions, which provide predictability for the industry and which can stimulate increased value creation and profitable businesses. That is what we are all served with, and it will – in addition to the commercial – provide good district jobs and positive ring-effects. I am submitting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1226	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1229	The proposal for a specific mining strategy is motivated by our meetings with the mining industry and by our experiences of the debate on mineral extraction in several parts of the country, including: from my state of Finnmark. In addition, the world market situation is increasing and increasing the need for minerals. The climate challenge and newly developed technology to tackle this, economic growth in large, populous countries in Asia and Africa and the struggle of Western countries to maintain their leading positions will create enormous mineral needs in the future. The new mineral law that came last year is described both by industry and by politicians as a good basis for raising an industry that has had a period of rather low activity. At the same time, we have recorded that the interpretation of the new law has been the subject of high-level discussions in some of the different forums of government parties. Here I think, among other things. on the number of ministers who had to visit the Sameting last autumn. The Workers' Party working party then promoted a consultation note on the new Mineral Law. The note took the aim of deciding whether to care about the new law, and – if you care – how to interpret it in that case. This was not a process that gave industry hope for long-term and predictable framework conditions, which is actually important for all business. New and better prices, new and larger markets and the prospect of expanded uses and the new development of the Barents Sea, with opportunities to combine large amounts of clean energy with new mineral deposits in Finnmark, are all elements that advocate a broadly anchored strategy, and I also include the Stortinget. The last few weeks have taught us that for a majority government, the practical policy comes in a slightly different order, as the consideration of the coalition must come first. I refer here to the statements of the representative Lundteg, and lastly, yesterday, to the statements of our Minister of Finance that a majority government had to vote first and foremost against the minority – but that he had also heard of cases in which one could listen to good proposals from the opposition. In the light of the post-war, I just have to regret that we did not formulate the proposal so that we asked the government to come to Stortinget with the Council's strategy for the mining industry. Happiness is that I am young and teachable, and then it will usually go better and better. In summary, the Council of State believes that we must have such a strategy, the great coalition of the Business Committee believes that we should have such a strategy, the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, believes that the government needs such a strategy, and the opposition broadly agrees on such a strategy. To Helga Pedersen, I would like to say: it may be important to anchor such a strategy in Stortinget. Before you know the word, there might be a government that you don't think is as great as the one who's sitting now. If this with minerals is as important as Pedersen suggests, it must be desirable to be able to influence in a slightly longer perspective. Finally, I would like to say that I am quite happy on behalf of the business community. We've been lifted, the strategy's coming. I just want to ask the state council to hurry up a little bit. Here we don't need any rest cuts, here we need results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1242	It is an important matter that will be addressed in the proposal. Minerals in natural and processed form are the basis of our modern industrial community. It's hard to think of a non-mineral society and a product that comes out of them, like metal. Norway has long traditions of mining and metallurgical industry. These are often district industries that have meant a lot to local communities, and will still do so. Many traditional mines have been laid down, but there are still large mineral resources in Norway. There are still 4,000 added to the mineral industry, and the market for minerals and metals has a positive long-term trend. Norway has a strong commitment to build on the expertise we have in this field to build an important industry that can help make Norway a little less oil dependent. With the mineral laws adopted in 2009, the focus was again on mineral nutrients, and the government is now developing a policy in this area. Mineral and mineral industries are important for value creation and industrial development. But experience also shows that there are many challenges to the mineral industry. There are many communities that are still struggling with problems following mine closures. From my home country, I can name the Knaben mine, which has caused us a lot of problems over time. This shows that strict mining requirements have to be met, and it is important that we use the precautionary principle when setting environmental requirements for mining. Emission requirements must be set, and good clean-up and restoration guarantees must also be provided when mining is over. The point of setting strict environmental requirements for mining is that it is important for the environment, but also that it is important for mining and the mineral industry to have economically viable development. It is very often found in industry, and also in the mineral industry, that there are conflicting interests between good environmental policy and good industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1249	Mining industry is an important district industry, and an industry that is particularly important in the northernmost countries and in the western world. It is also an industry with a significant potential. The centre party and the government are committed to facilitating good framework conditions for mining industry to stimulate jobs, increase value creation and profitable enterprises. In a letter dated 29 April, the Council of State stresses the importance and potential of the industry, as well as its potential for coordinating activities and legislation in the field of industry. The Council of State further indicates that the government has the mining industry as one of its areas of activity. It is positive that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that there is a great need to chisel out a coordinated policy for mining, which balances the interests of employment, value creation and the environment so that industry can be further developed in a sustainable way. This shows that there is a great commitment to the Storting for such a bet. On 1 January this year, the Mineral Act entered into force. The Mineral Act stimulates increased monitoring of mineral resources in Norway by extending the exploration right to all minerals. Increased surveying and knowledge of the rock will also be important for municipal land planning, and will improve the ability of municipalities to set up sites for raw materials extraction in their plans. The Mineral Act is an important contribution to the government’s commitment to the exploitation of its natural resources. In this context, it is important to see the desire for national involvement in a wider international context. On a global scale, we are entering a challenging situation in terms of access to the necessary geological resources, as well as the high demand for a range of metals. In the Center Party, we have noticed that the interest in looking for metals has increased worldwide, including in Norway. In the northernmost counties special expectations are attached to the mining industry. In this context, I refer to the operation at the South Bank of Gruve, which will provide great opportunities for the Church and Finnmark. From many quarters it is stressed that this could be a new industrial venture in an area of rich industrial history. I can also mention that last week there was a headline in the media that there was gold found in Goal Self in Troms. It is currently premature to say whether this will have a potential for extraction, but there is a clear interest in examining it further. In the Nordic region, the extraction of large quantities of iron ore in northern Finland and Sweden is currently under way. It is a desire to ship this ore from an ice-free port in Norway, and there is a contact and a separate project with the municipality of Storfjord in Troms, which is part of the Tornedals Council. The idea is to build a railway between Kolari in Finland and Skibotn in Norway, where one has the opportunity to build deep water water at the deep Lyngenfjord and skip the ore from there to the rest of the world. This is very interesting, and I had the pleasure of meeting representatives of the mining company recently. This will clearly be a North-Area effort in practice, and I point out that bets on mining have a very large potential on the whole of the North Callot. In this context, one must also plan logistics, and I look forward to the completion of the transport investigation for the north, which is now under development. Mining investment is important and exciting, with a high potential. In the Centre Party, we are concerned that the government should give the area a high priority, so that it can stimulate jobs, increase value creation and profitable businesses. The central party believes that the government has to consider providing a big message to enable the Storting to deal with the elements of such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1270	Norway is a country with high mineral resources and a high level of experience and expertise in mining. The extraction and processing of industrial minerals is an industry in growth. Although the Norwegian mainland has large mineral resources, there is significantly lower exploration activity in Norway than in other Nordic countries. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating new opportunities for industrial activities. Mineral extraction is an important niche, and Norwegian mineral resources represent a high potential for industrial opportunities in mainland Norway, not least in the districts. The proposers raise a matter that is clearly in the wind. The North Sea initiative, the development of the energy industry in the Barents Sea, including the new part-line agreement, and the possibility of large deposits of minerals also open up the possibility of establishing large industrial projects in the north. Change in global market conditions, and the recently adopted mineral law that simplifies legislation, as well as the desire from industry, even though more predictable framework conditions, are all elements that confirm the need for offensive action. The framework conditions for the Norwegian mining industry are also affected by international conditions. There is an important EU effort to put in place a strategy to ensure Europe's access to mineral raw materials. The Spanish Presidency has taken the initiative of a conference to highlight just this. It takes place this week in Madrid, 16-18. ==References== Norway, which is not an EU member, has been informed that we should not initially be included in the working groups under this heading. Two working groups are set up: Best Practice and Strategic/Critical Minerals, both of which will present their work at the Madrid meeting. However, we have been given the opportunity to comment on this work afterwards. It is important here that the interests of the Norwegian mining industry are properly safeguarded. Norwegian mining industry also stands out internationally. The UEPG Awards of Sustainability were recently awarded in Munich. NorStone was awarded the Certificate of Excellence in its category for a restoration project from Årdal. An independent jury, consisting of four experts in HMS, biodiversity, environment and reputation, had evaluated 30 different contributions from 10 European countries. NorStone's project was the only nominated project from Scandinavia. Mining industries need good framework conditions that can stimulate increased value creation and profitable enterprises. World trade is increasingly focusing on mineral raw materials. If this industry is to be built up, there is a need for state framework conditions and instruments. In order to increase investment in Norway, and in particular in North Norway, capital access is important. Christian People's Party believes this, among other things. measures are needed to strengthen equity in competent ownership, fiscal incentives for design and infrastructure measures to reach mineral deposits. Otherwise, I would like to stress that it is important to ensure the financing of clean-up, both during the study and operational phases and at the end of the business. In addition, landowners must have control over the management of their own resources and must be notified of exploration prior to the initiation of investigations and extraction. The Christian People's Party shares the intentions of the proposers, but wants a wide-ranging discussion of the issue in Stortinget to ensure a comprehensive policy for the mining industry. I would therefore like to promote the vote on the proposal to ask the government to give a big message on the mining industry. We will, in turn, support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right on a strategy for the Norwegian mining industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1289	The representative, Mr Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal to which she referred and has also expressed subsidiary support for proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1292	Growth in the world economy in recent years has given rise to a formidable increase in wealth in large parts of the world. Not least, there has been significant growth in countries such as China, Brazil and India. For example, China has doubled its GDP from 1978 to 2008 and has doubled it only from 2002 to today. China’s share of world GDP has increased from 7 pst in the period 2002-2009. The Indian share of world GDP has increased from 3.6 pst over the same period to 14 pst. to 5.4 pst. At the same time, the production of goods such as mobile phones, cars and computers has become cheaper. These developments have increased demand for all types of consumer goods and increased global demand for raw materials, in particular energy products, metals and minerals. It has contributed to wealth development in Norway and increased opportunities for Norwegian business. At the same time, strong economic growth over time has contributed to a significant increase in prices of metals and minerals. Occurrence of metals and minerals that were not previously considered as propellant has now become more relevant for national and international enterprises. A concrete example of this is South Warrior Gruve AS. In 1996, iron production in Southvaranger Gruve was closed due to low prices. In 2009, production started up again with new owners after a sharp price increase in recent years. For example, I will show that the price of iron ore on the world market was stable in the area around 30 cents per year. tonnes in the 1980s and 1990s. From approx. In 2004, an increase to a price started in 2009 and early 2010 of around 100 cents per year. tonnes and a price in April/May 2010 of around 170 cents per tonne. tonnes. Today employees Southvaranger Gruve AS employs about 300 people. In recent years, the EU, China and the United States have become increasingly concerned with ensuring stable and long-term access to minerals and metals for their own industry. These developments may provide increased opportunities to trigger value creation in Norway based on mineral and metal resources. We are now in a situation where demand and price increases for metals and minerals open up new opportunities for an entire industry. I think it is important that we also take the opportunity to look at the policy in this area. I think that is a potential for coordinating instruments and legislation in the mining sector. Mining industry is an important district industry, and it means a lot in the West and in the three northernmost states. The industry also has significant opportunities: Norway’s geological survey has previously said that in Norway there are unused mineral and metal resources at a turnover value of more than 1 000 billion. kr. That's a big number. However, more important than the figure is the value creation potential and the potential for jobs in the exploitation of these resources. Therefore, further work on a coordinated policy for industry will focus on the possibilities of profitable jobs and increased value creation. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee refers to the ‘Mineral raw materials as an opportunity — The need for a mineral strategy in Norway’ in the opinion of the Norwegian Bergindustrie note. This note I'm familiar with, and such concrete recordings are very valuable. We are now working to obtain further information and to identify current issues. The form in which this work will be carried out has not yet been decided. However, I have noticed that the majority of the Industry Committee is asking for an assessment of whether a large-scale report is to be written on the mining industry. What is certain, anyway, is that this is an area where we have a lot of attention, because we see the great potential, and we look at the role of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Government that drives and facilitates this to be good jobs and good business development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1310	It's going to be line change, limited to three lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1313	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is a pity that there was no joint committee on this, because I think the committee agrees with the objective. My question to the Council of State goes on the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee on 29 April this year. In the last paragraph there it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘If this takes the form of a national strategy, a forecast or other decision has not yet been taken.’ With a fresh memory of the time it took to bring with it the previous mineral law, the one that came in 2009, when it was used 15 years, what time perspective do the Councils have on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1325	Faster than the mineral law, I'd say. But it's well-informed practice that the government has to choose its type of work. We come to the Stortinget with the relevant documents in different forms, but I see it as useful to have the Storting's support for such work and the Storting's commitment to such work. We know from our own continent that Europe has a large consumption of the world's mineral resources, but has a small amount of its own resources. If our part of the world is to be more self-sufficient in the raw materials that are now in demand worldwide, Norway is the key country. We have the great potential. So this is probably going to be a potential to be triggered long before the 15 years that Bredvold is worried about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1332	When we heard the introduction to the case rapporteur, Haugen, it ran into my mind a saying about writing a script in marble. That's probably how you worked with the Mineral Law. Some of the problem about the mineral industry is that it is a financial industry; it is large facilities. And since we now have such a pleasant passion, perhaps the Council of State can see a little bit about what measures on the financial side he thinks it might be possible to put forward, to raise enough capital to establish the many profitable jobs in the large district of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1339	It is essential that even when we are to extract these resources, businesses that have a profitable potential are developing. As the NHO President tends to say, Norwegian business has to go to the seventh and last with profits and not with subsidies. It's in the bottom. But they have the same combination of private and public funding sources. It has to be private and the different banks that carry a lot of funding methods, whether it's raising equity through the stock exchange, etc. In addition, I imagine that Innovation Norway, SIVA and the other public instruments we have can play a role in this industry as in other industries. I believe that the interaction between public and private schemes and a strong and active public enterprise policy, with many tools in the toolbox, is a significant explanation that we are doing so well in Norway, including through a financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1346	My question is in the extension of Mr Bredvold's question. It is nice that the Council of State should at least finish work within a shorter time-frame than it had in the case of the Mineral Act. It's positive. But I want to follow it up a little bit and ask the following two questions: Question 1: Is the strategy now working well? I wonder if the Council of State can say a little bit about it, because it also says a little bit about what perspective we can have on this. But the most important thing is not least question 2: In what way will the Council of State involve the Storting in this work? Will he see to it that the Storting as an organ gets to deal with this in some way, and not just get it as an attachment to a budget or something like that? In fact, I do not think the matter deserves it. From all the parties, both the government parties and the opposition, we've heard that this is an important field where you want to participate. The Stortinget should then have its say in terms of treatment. So my second question to the Council of State is, how will the Council of State ensure the involvement of the Storting in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1353	The first one is probably almost the same question as what we answered in the letter to the committee. The way in which this strategy is designed is not yet determined whether it becomes a wholesale message, a national strategy or another type of document. And it's not like we're starting work on a mining strategy now, we're already doing well. The Mineral Act was a big hold. It has taken a long time, but the fact that my predecessor got this in place has been received with great pleasure in the industry itself. These days we are also working on the information work around this, with supervisors and with organisation, so that information is published. We have also allocated a lot of money for the monitoring of mineral resources, a common project for which public authorities have to take responsibility. So we're going to get back to this in the form we think is natural, and involve the Storting as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1360	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1365	First, I would like to thank the proposers for taking the initiative in this debate on an industry that is important for the future of many districts in Norway, not least in the Nordic region. After listening to the debate here, it could, of course, initially be tempting to ask whether the Right Party is about to take an internal, ideological settlement. Last week we could read in the Class Battle that there is an internal debate on whether to continue the Party's tax-cut line, which is, of course, the trademark of the party. This proposal for a representative can also be interpreted as self-examined in relation to another of the great mantras of the right, namely ‘nutritional neutrality’. I note that here too, in the debate, an active state wants to develop the mining industry, one does not just want to let the market steer development. I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus to focus specifically on the mining industry. When the new mineral law was passed last year, it was a long-lasting and modernized law that came into place, and a very important framework condition for what is to happen in the years to come. It is quite natural that in the wake of the law we discuss our mining policy in a broader perspective, in order to facilitate new activity. I believe that important keywords in the further work must be ‘lethargy, research and education’. Other important keywords and balances that need to be made relate to environmental requirements and the consideration of Sami culture, and other industries that have not been mentioned in the debate here today. I believe that mining can make very valuable contributions to the Sami community, because activities and jobs in the traditional Sami areas are a prerequisite for this culture to survive. Earlier in the spring, the Workers' Party took the initiative to consult on the mining industry in Kautokeino. There was a lot of useful input. I believe that mining and sewage can live side by side, but you have to make very thorough adjustments. There are no easy solutions, but I think there are solutions. As for the representative, Bakke Jensen, on the role of Sametinge, I believe we should be very clear that the Sametinge should not be able to dictate Norwegian mining policy, but they are entitled to be listened to. The major community shall not outrun the Sami interests or traditional Sami industries. There must be respect and a good dialogue. To sign out other things that were said in the comments of the representative, Bakke Jensen: I want to say that we have a fantastic government. It is at least a very good government for mining, because the Mining Act has been completed, and because mining has a role in the Northern Region Strategy. And now it's also announced a review of mining policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1380	I'll make it short. With regard to the Right Tax Policy and the Right Tax Regime, I would recommend the representative Pedersen to read something other than the Class Fight, because it's probably not adequate. As far as the strategy is concerned, we are asking for this to be anchored widely, and for work to be done beyond. It's to engage widely. A little bit of the problem about the Sameting is that you haven't quite understood all the roles. In fact, developing a strategy and allowing many people to participate in it means getting involved more widely and getting more opinions. So the market is much more than a social democratic government has made sure that local democracy can be allowed to say its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1389	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are treated together. [[See page 4210 of this Official Journal]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1420	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one hour and 20 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes of the Central Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes of the Left. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes and that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1429	Representatives Nesvik, Bredvold and Treldal have proposed that the main agreement be terminated by the State with the agricultural organisations. The majority of the Committee rejects this proposal. The main agreement for agriculture regulates the negotiation of an industrial agreement between the country and the industry. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, emphasise the value of commitment to cooperation between the State and industry. The main agreement states that there will be consistency between the rights given to the industry and the obligations it assumes. Through the main agreement, the industry also assumes responsibility for implementing the agricultural agreement, which is very important for the practical implementation of an important agreement. The majority point out that agriculture is a resource-based industry, and that the natural resources for farming vary greatly in our long-term country. Therefore, the market mechanism alone cannot take account of the agricultural and social interests that the Stortinget has established in different contexts. The contract work shall not only take care of the income policy and the relationship in the industry. Agriculture creates important societal values such as food security, culture, environmental quality and living communities. Therefore, it is reasonable that the State is an active party in the relationship and in cooperation with the agricultural organisations. Agriculture is also an important basis for other industries such as the food industry and experience-based tourism and tourism. It is important that we have a network of agreements to ensure stable conditions for industry and for the industries that build on agriculture, while at the same time taking care of important societal interests that create quality of life throughout the country. Economic developments in Norway have been more stable than in any country it is natural to compare with. The Government Party states in its recommendation that tripartite cooperation between the state, workers and employers can be an important cause of the stability we have in the Norwegian economy. And the agricultural agreement is an important part of the whole thing: the Norwegian, or Nordic, model, which provides good stability for quality of life and jobs. The members of the Progress Party want to cancel the main agreement for agriculture and allow agriculture to evolve on the basis of the framework conditions offered by the market and society. The members of the Right do not support the proposal of the Progress Party to cancel the main agreement, but they want to remove some regulations and strengthen competition and reduce transfers to agriculture. I expect that the representatives of the minority parties will argue for their views during the debate here today. SV notes that this case clearly shows the differences in Norwegian policy. The right side of the policy will eliminate solidarity and replace it with market management. In this case, it will lead to extensive deportation from the districts. This, in turn, will lead to a reduction in the use of important national resources such as pastures and roughage production. Deregulation will make it more profitable to stop as a farmer and less profitable to continue in agriculture. There will be a strong depopulation of the countryside around the country. The right-hand side indicates that we also have today's dislocation and centralisation. It's true that we've had a decline in the number of uses over time, but we're now seeing the contours of stabilizing that development. And the solution is not to give up the fight against centralization and depopulation from the countryside, the solution is to use tools that can create living settlements in the future. There is little doubt that the deregulation and market management of agriculture will lead to dramatic depopulation and concentration of agricultural activity. The progress batch should confirm that this is the price they are willing to pay to reduce government transfers and perhaps bring down food prices. The party of progress should be honest enough to admit that their policies will lead to a dramatic deportation, a dramatic reduction in the use of natural resources such as roughage and pasturage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1452	Initially, I will submit a letter to the Stortinget, dated 14 June 2010, from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food at the Council of State, applying a corrigendum to decisions in Prop. 133 S. The Council of State there explains that the proposal for a decision by way of an incurrency has made the wrong figures in Chapter I. 4150, 70; it has dropped out three 0's. It is corrected in the letter accompanying the case, on the basis of which the decision is based. The year’s agricultural negotiations were conducted on record voyages. Despite that, Stortinget has had a very short period of time. The matter could have been difficult to deal with faster in the committee, at my discretion, and I thank the members of the committee for both flexibility and willingness to cooperate. It has been important to treat this in a good way. The figures from the Agricultural Budgetary Department showed that this year it was well suited to the agricultural negotiations. The prognosis negotiations were based on last year, in line with actual circumstances. That's a good starting point. The Agriculture Negotiating Committee presented its demands for this year's agricultural agreement with a framework of 1865 million. kr on 27 April. They took the view that the positive development of agriculture on the income side of the last four years should be reinforced during the current period and that the reinforcement should apply from the first year of the negotiations. The figures are detailed in the proposition. I just want to remind you that agriculture has largely met what they demanded from target price increases, where the percentage of dairy products was a central requirement. This has been the case in recent years. In the context of the demand for income growth, I would like to highlight one of the most important things, the strengthening of milk and beef production and rural agriculture. It is entirely in line with both the Labour Party and the other red-green policies. This was the council's red-green fraction spelt to the Minister of Agriculture before the government's offer was launched. It was almost also a unanimous request from the rapporteurs in the district of Norway: the dairy farmers had to be given priority. The transition from crown to percentage inches has been much discussed and warned against from several teams. It is important to be aware that we are free under contract to introduce a percentage duty on dairy products, as has been done in the agricultural sector. The transition to the percentage duty affects existing trade marginally. There is virtually no cross-border trade in drinking milk and cream today. Norwegian goods constitute 99,9 pst. of the consumption. There is little cross-border trade in such products in Europe. It is worth noting that Norsk Bonde and Small Farmers' Association broke the negotiations on the grounds that the framework was too low, while the Norwegian Confederation and the State agreed on 15 May, where the letter from the Ministry of Finance on percentage duty on milk for the Farmers' Association was an important premise. And as we know, the frame was at 950 million. kr, of which the net effect of budgetary resources of 375 million. SEK and a target price increase of 420 million. NOK, plus 60 million. NOK in transferred funds and SEK 95 million. kr in the increased income value of the agricultural deduction. In my view, agricultural settlements have been given a profile that meets agricultural requirements and is responding to the most pressing challenges in Norwegian agriculture today. I realise that the organisations are not satisfied with the framework, but I assume that it must be accepted that all groups must contribute when the use of budgetary resources is going down towards what is considered to be sound on the basis of a stable and sound economic policy. Budgetary policy is important in this way. Low interest rates and stable exchange rates are important for the further development of our country, including farmers. The priority of this year's agricultural agreement is, where priority should be given. The grass-based livestock population in the districts has become dependent on the central and strong agricultural areas. Therefore, this had to be prioritised now. If we're going to have agriculture all over the country, which I feel is a broad consensus on, then it's incredible to me that someone can believe that it can be left to the market alone. Agriculture is a political industry. The agricultural agreement serves several purposes. It shall primarily address the farmer's need for a sound level of income in view of the important work done in producing food of safe and safe quality. That is the main reason for agriculture itself. Secondly, this obligatory cooperation between the farmer and the large community shall contribute to maintaining the cultural landscape and to facilitating other types of activities. Cultural and travel work places are made possible by our having an open cultural landscape and living settlements. In short, if we are to succeed, we must take care of the negotiating institute that the agricultural agreement is. It will benefit the farmers, and not least has the big community and we as consumers enjoy it. I recommend that the agricultural agreement be adopted, as it stands, with the correction initially set out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1480	Then the representative Haugen has referred to the letter from the Department of Bugs in Cape. 4150, heading 70. The President will make sure that this is corrected in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1483	The party regards self-employed farmers as a support bar for the creation of value and nutrition in many places in the country. We want the farmer to have development opportunities in the future. A robust agricultural industry contributes to achieving important objectives of continued significant Norwegian food production, differentiated housing and a beautiful cultural landscape. Agriculture, like, for example: the tourism industry and the fishing industry are of great importance in ensuring positive development in many communities. We record that the agricultural conversion continues. It is estimated that 35,000 farms with housing are empty, many of them due. Conversion to larger and more efficient units is necessary to ensure that the agricultural industry becomes more forward-looking and less dependent on transfers. We believe that agricultural policy should facilitate this better. In principle, it is of concern that individual industries negotiate their own framework conditions directly with the State and conclude agreements with major economic consequences outside the ordinary budgetary procedure, and that the annual decisions on the framework conditions of agriculture are not a pay bill but a determination of the possibilities for generating income. The significant deviations between the promised income development in agriculture in the individual settlements and the achieved development show that the basis of calculation used for the settlements is thin. The Progress Party wants farmers, as other traders, to be responsible for their own value creation according to the framework conditions set by society, and believes it is important to give agriculture new opportunities to develop and reduce dependence on public support. For the settlement to be seen in conjunction with other policy priorities, it is clear that the settlement is dealt with in the context of the State budget and follows the calendar year. The State shall continue to grant financial support to agriculture, but such grants must be more targeted and less bureaucratic than they are today. The Progress Party considers it central to strengthen the farmer's ownership rights for his own use, for example. to propose the removal of a dwelling obligation. Occupancy is a barrier to the future development of agriculture and forestry in Norway, and it is not proven to contribute to settlement. In many cases, price regulation provides artificially low prices, prevents turnover and increases the risk of investments on the farm. A high distance between the market price and the regulated price also provides a basis for cases where parts of the purchase fee are hidden from the authorities. We believe that there is a serious interference in ownership, and that the state forces people who want to sell the farm to take a lower price than the buyer is willing to pay. The Party of Progress is strongly critical of the agricultural policy pursued by the Red-Green Government and cannot therefore in any way support the negotiated agricultural agreement. The new agreement does not provide for a new direction in agricultural policy, despite the fact that there is a great need for a change of course. Despite the fact that the red-green government announced a strong change in agricultural policy when it came to power, it has not happened. This year, too, there was a big gap between the requirement submitted by the farmers' organisations and the offer that came from the state. The negotiated agreement also amounts to approx. half of the initial requirement of the organisations. It is necessary to establish a normal market-based system for agricultural products managed by supply and demand. In the case of under-coverage in the market, the producer will be able to take a higher price, while the consumer can choose other products if the price of the product is too high. In that case, prices of products will vary in line with the market, and producers must be market-oriented in their production. In a situation that today, where consumers demand more than Norwegian farmers can produce, a market-based system will contribute to higher production. In a market-based system, competition between manufacturers will also arise, leading to better products, innovation and more cost-effective production. This will contribute to better income opportunities for those producers who are skilled, innovative and good businessmen. The Party will point out that market-based systems operate in all other markets and that there is therefore no reason to exempt agriculture from this. The sharp decline in the number of farmers and use will continue in the coming years, probably with increased force. Agricultural actors have far too little confidence in the future, and the confidence in the government's agricultural policy is at a low level. The policy that has been against agriculture for many years is a socialist experiment that has contributed to the Norwegian farmer being caught up in a ‘net’ and a system from which it is almost impossible to escape. Agricultural policy is characterised by a strong drive to regulate industry down to the smallest detail, and public bureaucrats and a very detailed regulatory framework have taken over the direction of agricultural development. The management of individual farmers over their own property and employment has been lost, and farmers are now more to be regarded as public employees and practitioners of a public policy than self-employed workers in the food production industry, as they should have been initially. This has led to a lack of creativity, ability to invest and a desire to take risks in large parts of agriculture. I find it strange that both the agricultural organisations and the Central Party support such a policy that is constantly leading to fewer farmers and great dissatisfaction with the income situation and opportunities among industry actors. It is therefore important to point out that the agricultural agreement has become so complex and complicated that, apart from the central bureaucracy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, it is possible to get involved in all aspects of the system and fully understand it. Nor have any other OECD countries found this appropriate. This may be harmful to other export industries, including: the export of fish, when a milk toll is placed on a fading 388 pst. Norway has to contend that there will be a reduction in the protection of imports in the wake of international developments through WTO negotiations. The development offers a gradual increase in competition for Norwegian agricultural products. Despite a high level of customs protection, the Norwegian authorities have not set out a plan for meeting such a trend in Norwegian agriculture. This is very critical. The result may be that Norwegian agriculture will have a blue day when the outcome of the WTO negotiations becomes known. We need a new development. Robust production based on market economy criteria must be top priority and must be developed before import protection falls. We see today that the Norwegian food industry is under pressure from abroad, and it is important that Norwegian agricultural policy ensures that the industry receives raw materials at a competitive price. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to structuralise agriculture so as to reduce unit costs. While industry is competitive vis-à-vis foreign operators in terms of processing and industrial production, raw materials costs are too high in relation to our neighbouring countries and may threaten important jobs and value creation in industry by increasing imports. The food industry accounts for about 20 pst. of employment and value added in industry. A common feature is that production is constantly labour intensive, despite the use of very modern technologies by enterprises. Norway must therefore use the remaining time to adapt the primary production level to the new everyday life that everyone sees coming in a relatively near future. It is therefore important that the government has an active attitude to this, and not that today is entirely passive to the gradual development. The outcome of such a policy would seriously harm the food industry. The Progress Party is disappointed that the government is not taking a settlement with the agricultural policy management system and the legal basis of agricultural policy, which was largely designed during the mid-war period under completely different conditions. We record that the result of more than 70 years of a controlled agricultural industry proves that the policy pursued has failed, because it has not achieved the objectives of housing, employment and income levels. The number of operational uses and the number of active farmers are falling rapidly, and it is expected that the same take-off will continue with the agricultural agreement of the year. This is also stated by Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers as they broke out of farming. New figures for rural settlement development show a strongly declining trend. This must be a major defeat for the government, which has announced a new course in agricultural policy. Moreover, agricultural policy has resulted in significant costs in terms of public expenditure, high food prices and reduced nutrition for farmers. It is therefore important to point out that all restrictions and obstacles imposed by concession restrictions, target prices, production quotas and selective aid schemes have been devastating to farmers. The promotion party will therefore give a strong priority to a reorientation where deregulation, red tape and competition are put at the top of the agenda. The process must be initiated as soon as possible in order to avoid a future risk of a complete industry. We have great faith in Norwegian agriculture and in Norwegian farmers. The majority in Stortinget has shown a distrust of the Norwegian peasantry by severely restricting the freedom of the industry. I am not least in doubt that Norwegian agriculture has great opportunities to develop into a competitive industry that can also compete on an international market with special products. Norwegian climate conditions, genetic resources, ecology and farm competence are specific advantages that can be exploited for our benefit in an international market. Payment willingness consumers in the EU and in other markets are looking for safe and healthy foods, which are also of high quality and taste. By releasing the farmer, farmers will have all the prerequisites to deliver such products here in the country, but it requires targeted investment and cultivation of a entrepreneurial culture, as experienced by other industries. Norwegian industry and many other industries have become internationally leading within their segments. This has meant that Norway has a high level of competence in internationalisation, marketing, product development, quality assurance and other elements that are important for international success. I am addressing the proposals made by the Progress Party, either alone or together with the Right. I would also like to inform you that we are going to support the Left's proposal No. 23 and that we will support the Left's proposal No. 26 subsidized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1526	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1529	First, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the matter, who always does a good and thorough job. When he thanked the committee for getting through the matter quickly, I would like to say that if you had had a different arrangement on this, because the agricultural negotiations, the agricultural settlement, had followed the ordinary budgetary processes, he might not have had reason to thank us so much, because then the Stortinge would have had the time it needed for such an important task. After all, there is a broad consensus on the important role that agriculture plays in Norwegian society. The right is behind the central objectives we have for agricultural policy. We want an active agriculture, we want a profitable Norwegian processing production, and we want to take care of the cultural landscape. But such objectives require that we conduct a good industrial policy for the practitioners, for the farmers, that we conduct an agricultural policy that ensures that people remain in the industry, and that new rates, that people dare to invest. Then we need an industrial policy for agriculture that gives greater freedom, freedom to increase income and to invest by improving the capital situation. It is therefore necessary to stimulate increased competition and increased efficiency and, in particular, to prepare the industry for freer international trade conditions. Then I think about preparing for freer international conditions through participation and not by finding new opportunities to build walls, to dig trenches against the outside world. I think that the milk duty from the settlement this year actually shows the opposite. Nor is it correct, as the case-rapporteur says, that this has no significance for Norwegian processing production. There are a lot of mixed products that you come into competition with. In order to achieve the industrial policy that we want, we believe it is necessary that the regulations on the property side should also be embellished. Housing and price control are central in that context, including prohibitions on sharing and non-participating provisions, which should be embellished and modernised respectively. For its part, the right has great respect for all nutritionists, not least the farmers. As in many other professions, this is hard work to achieve profitability and to achieve the objectives both of society and of a self-employed person when choosing such a profession. Many invest a lot of capital, a lot of their working hours and a lot of their lives in the profession of a farmer. In our position today, we present a number of proposals and dissenting remarks in relation to the current situation in the field of agricultural policy. But our amendments will always be based on respect for those who run the industry, respect for the time and the capital that has been wasted. That is why it would be inappropriate for us to do anything but gradually modernise agriculture. All traders must have predictable framework conditions and the changes must be practicable. The changes that are coming will have to apply over a period of time. I would like to say that in this setting we stress that it is in principle unfortunate for individual industries to negotiate their own framework conditions directly with the state other than other or the usual budgetary priorities. But there are also many other aspects of agricultural policy that need to be reviewed: more targeting of subsidies and not least less bureaucratic ones. We therefore believe that the periodicalisation of the agricultural situation needs to be changed in order to follow the budget lines, and that the agreements can be concluded in parallel with the budgetary process and seen in conjunction with other priorities in the government budget. I think that reasoning makes a lot of sense. That is why we are not joining the year's agricultural settlement in this position and we are proposing that the settlement be postponed and become part of the budgetary procedure for the coming years with the changes that will then result from the revised national budget. With that, I address the suggestions we make in the settings, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1550	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1553	The red-green government has presented its fifth agricultural settlement. This year's settlement can be described as a moderate settlement, but at the same time far more than our political opponents have shown and said that they are willing to provide. I would like to point out that this is by no means a rest cushion for the Central Party and the Government. The Soria Moria II formula for the government to further develop agricultural incomes and welfare policy from the previous period is clear. This year's agricultural settlement is aimed at strengthening grass-based livestock, especially in milk production. By providing a transition from the dollar to the dollar, we will be able to further strengthen milk production in the future. We believe that a higher level of customs protection is an important step in ensuring milk production in Norway, which accounts for the clearly highest proportion of value creation in Norwegian agriculture. This year’s settlement has also highlighted a major challenge for agriculture, namely recruiting young people into the industry. Important measures are increased grants for generational shifts to persons under 35 years of age and priority is given to young people when purchasing a new start-up milk quota. A three-year project totaling 4.5 million will also be launched. to strengthen the recruitment of agricultural training and to continue the responsibility of counties for recruitment, training, equality and training in agriculture by 20 million. kr in 2011. Freight subsidies are an important instrument of agricultural policy for balancing price differences between producers in different parts of the country. The centre lot is well pleased that the meat delivery system is being reformed and that the allocation is increased by 60 million. kr. This is a very important regional policy measure that ensures a level playing field for all producers. Together with the agricultural agreement, the proposal of the Progress Party is being debated on the termination of the main agreement for agriculture. We can easily agree with the Progress Party that it is important to maintain the basis for active agriculture throughout the country, but the contradiction that the solution is to remove the agricultural agreement is something the Central Party will not be involved in. It could have been an advantage if the Progress Party went on its own and set goals and action in conjunction with each other. In the Central Party, we believe that leaving Norwegian agriculture to free market forces is a thorough declaration of failure towards Norwegian food security. The agricultural negotiations are not just an agreement that exists for the farmers. It is also a contract that ensures the consumer stable food prices and services in the form of a living cultural landscape and a living Building Norway. In the Central Party, we believe that a varied agricultural and food production across the country requires the Norwegian model with a strong cooperation, the agricultural contract system and a balanced distribution of production. Therefore, I would recommend that those who are concerned with Norwegian agriculture in the future manage a short-term proposal from the Progress Party that will kick legs under Norwegian rural agriculture once and for all. Norway and the world need food. Population growth means that world food production needs to increase by 70 pst. by 2050. In Norway, food production needs to be increased by 20 pst. by 2030 to feed 1 million more Northmen. We as responsible politicians must take responsibility internationally by ensuring greater self-sufficiency of Norwegian-produced food, based on Norwegian raw materials. It is then important that, through the agricultural policy and general framework conditions, we lay down conditions that require increased food production. Politically, we still have a way to go before we can agree on the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1575	I note that agriculture is substantially below other occupational groups. In this year's agricultural settlement, there was a shortage of 210 million. to provide farmers with income development in line with other groups in society. A reasonable development of income would contribute to the recruitment of the profession and to the preservation of a varied structure of use across the country. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the government, through the agricultural settlement, to facilitate the same chronological development of farmers' income as other groups in society, as well as a low-income supplement. The level of budgetary resources is important in order to accommodate less use with moderate production and which benefits less from price support than use with large production. In addition, budgetary resources lower the cost to ordinary consumers. Thirdly, increased use of budgetary resources is more in line with developments that we have to judge through in order to adapt to a possible future WTO agreement. Seed stocks in Norway are now empty, and we have had to import 6,000 tonnes of grain from Sweden and Finland to meet the needs this year. The Christian People's Party is promoting proposals in line with the demand from agriculture to reintroduce the stockpiling of cereals. Despite the fact that the lack of emergency storage of cereals makes us very vulnerable, the proposal unfortunately does not get a majority in the Stortinget. Increasingly more food production is concentrated in the best agricultural areas in this country. This is particularly worrying in the three Western states and in Agder. The development of efficiency and new modes of operation are a specific challenge for the labour-intensive livestock population with climate and soil conditions, land structure and topography in these areas. This threatens important national objectives of food production across the country, and in particular the special value of Western countries for national identity and travel life. The Christian People’s Party therefore proposes that the government should consider a separate package of measures for grass-based livestock farming in the districts, with targeted investment funds to maintain more operational uses. The Christian People's Party will facilitate both single use and cooperatives, but we will stimulate more cooperation between farms. The Christian People's Party believes that the restrictions on the number of members of a cooperative must be lifted, that the maximum distance between farms forming part of the same cooperative must be abolished and that joint ventures are allowed to lease the quota. At the same time, it is important that each farmer himself assesses the environmental consequences and limits the distance between farms involved in the co-operation. The size of the population has recently addressed its own survey on agriculture and climate. Targeting instruments to meet climate and environmental challenges was one of the main priorities of the agriculture negotiating committee at the year’s settlement. Investments in energy saving measures in greenhouses and bioenergy and biogas plants are among the priorities. The Christian People's Party therefore supports proposals to ask the government to provide new incentives for environmental investment in agriculture in the context of the 2011 State budget. There are few countries in the world that have a lower area of full-grown land per person than Norway has. According to the SSB, 8 130 land was redisposed when it was cultivated in 2009. The area of full-grown land in Norway is now down to 1.75 daa per person. Soil degradation is a big problem. This is unfortunate for both Norwegian agriculture, the environment and the international food crisis. The Christian People's Party will therefore support measures that limit the reallocation of our soil resources. Decommissioning also leads to a sharp reduction in the possibility of exploiting available resources in outland areas, as active agriculture is away or reduced to a minimum in some rural areas. This is particularly unfortunate, because today we are importing power feed equivalent to 2.5 million daa grain soils abroad. The Christian People's Party believes that we need strict soil protection to ensure future generations the possibility of national food supply. We have therefore asked the government to consider transferring the right to dispose of food from the municipalities to the county. Finally, I would like to address the six proposals from the Christian People's Party, which are in the position of the agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1596	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1599	For the left, the farmer is a self-employed person with special management responsibilities. For this reason, it is important that business start-ups, innovation and increased environmental focus are given a central place in agriculture. The left will therefore change the facility for the total agricultural transfers towards more environmentally-friendly and production-neutral support schemes. International changes require a shift in Norwegian agricultural policy. Subsidies and import barriers in developed countries prevent developing countries from producing food on their own market and export their products to developed countries. WTO negotiations and a possible global food crisis, with food shortages and significant increases in prices on the world market, call for a more cohesive agricultural policy. The left wants Norway to go ahead and continue to reduce import barriers and production-related subsidies. I ask the representative from SV, who was concerned about this, to hear what the left said here. In such a perspective, the agricultural agreement of the year is several steps in the wrong direction. On the one hand, the protection of Norwegian milk products is increased and, on the other hand, the system of export aid for Norwegian cheese production is maintained and continued. This is, in the view of the Left, a double standard, and there is little reason why the Minister of Agriculture has repeatedly warned that this system should be abolished, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as late as in Stortinget on 26 May of this year, categorically stated that he intended that the export aid ‘should be phased out’. I therefore refer to a distributed proposal from the Left that the Stortinget begs the government to wind up the system of export aid for cheese production through the price equalisation system. There needs to be more diversity in agriculture. Local authorities must be given greater freedom to see agricultural policy in the context of other industrial policies. The Left therefore wants a full review of the legislation, with a view to a strong modernisation, fewer forms, simpler guidelines and gradually reduced market regulation. The left wants to continue the agricultural negotiations but as a pure income agreement between farmers and countries. All other grants and schemes which do not have a direct effect on the income of the farmer should be transferred to ordinary government budget items. Investing in local food and drink production will be crucial for future agriculture, tourism and not least for living and active rural communities throughout the country. Legislation relating to production, distribution and serving is often a hindrance to the success of producers. The left will stimulate a reindeer for Norwegian food culture, including: by increasing the focus on geographical origin marking and the liberalisation of the legislation for the processing of food and drink on its own farm, without prejudice to health safety. In this way, I refer to the proposal from the Left, which the Health and Welfare Committee has to deal with, to allow demonstration sales and serving on visits to production premises or in connection with them, and to allow producers of alcoholic beverages to inform about their products on their own Internet page, as the Vinmonopolet currently has access to. I have registered that both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economic Affairs have expressed their support for the proposal, and this time expect the representatives of the Government Parties to follow up. Norwegian agriculture has an important role to play in working for a more sustainable society. Agriculture produces food in a low level of environmental impact in a global context. It takes care of the cultural landscape and produces renewable materials and energy. The main environmental challenges in agriculture are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of methane and natural gas, to increase organic production and to increase the production of bioenergy, without jeopardising biodiversity. I note that there is a reasonable distance between the previous Minister of Agriculture Terje Riis-Johansen’s statements that ‘every abandoned farm is a defeat’ to today’s end, where the government parties write that it is important to focus on the issues in order to prevent these developments – i.e. the structuralisation and closure of use – from going too far. It is good that the brutal truth of reality has opened its eyes to the industrial politicians of the government party. What's less good is the promises the voters have made, where it was suggested that you should actually reverse this development. Finally, I take up the proposals from the Left which have been distributed in the Chamber and at the same time warn that the Left will support the proposals. One, two, four, six, seven and twenty-one in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1618	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1621	Norwegian agricultural policy is characterised by stability for farmers, for the food industry and for Norwegian consumers. Stability and predictability of framework conditions are a good thing that traders place a strong emphasis on the authorities. It gives greater certainty about right decisions, it gives less risk. Looking at the world around us, it has been marked by great instability in recent years, initiated by the food crisis, the commodity crisis, the financial crisis, and not least the impacts of weather and climate. We are somewhat protected from this reality in Norway, but we are not unaffected. The Norwegian food sector is also exposed to competition, and it is necessary to take into account policy-making. There are, of course, limitations in the scope of action, but the result for Norwegian actors is clearly more predictable framework conditions than for farmers and industry in other countries. Important elements of the framework conditions for the farmers are defined in the formalised cooperation process of the agricultural agreement. It gives agriculture rights and obligations, and I believe it is a natural part of the Norwegian interaction model. We get better solutions over time through accountability and cooperation and the mutual commitment that comes with it. I am therefore pleased that there is so much support to continue the negotiating institute in this Chamber, as it appears in the vote on document 8:118 S, with proposals for termination of the main agreement. As I read this proposal for a representative, the rapporteurs primarily disagree with the agricultural policy that is being pursued. But agricultural negotiations are conducted within the framework laid down by the Storting. On that basis, the agricultural agreement will continue to be an appropriate tool for the further development of the interaction between the public and the farmers, which carries out an important work for the Norwegian community. Many of the social tasks of agriculture are the production of collective goods, for which by definition there are no markets. It is reasonable, in my opinion, that the farmers have the right to negotiate with society the terms of this production. Under the main agreement, agriculture assumes responsibility for implementing measures in accordance with the agricultural agreement. Agriculture has assumed financial responsibility for overproduction through the contractual system. It provides incentives for industry to maintain a long-term balance in commodity markets. It provides effective regulation, and I have to say that I am surprised when those in this room are deeply concerned about reducing bureaucracy, at the same time go in to conclude the main agreement. State regulation would provide significantly greater red tape and higher regulatory public costs. I note that the Right wants an interim solution that maintains the negotiations, but with a periodicisation that follows the ordinary fiscal year. It is set to be a first step on the road to major structural changes, reduced transfers and less red tape. It is a little unclear what practical consequences this is supposed to have for the negotiations themselves. The agricultural agreement already follows the calendar year for the budget and is presented in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's budget proposal. When negotiations take place on spring, it is in order to ensure long-term and predictability, including: by clarifying target prices and other provisions prior to the forthcoming production season, as is the case in some other countries. The agricultural agreement currently being discussed by the Stortinget is a clear agricultural agreement. It is clear in the priorities of the use of tools in relation to policy objectives, on the basis of the challenges we are facing. Trends in industry revenue have been too weak over too long. New generations of farmers also require better welfare arrangements, because over time we cannot have clearly worse agricultural conditions than in society else. And we see that production and land development are significantly weaker in some areas where the grass-based livestock population is dominant than it is in stronger agricultural areas. This agreement is a clear follow-up to last year's agricultural agreements and contributes over time to the necessary prioritisation of agricultural and food industries. The agreement facilitates an increase in income of 5 p.m., or approximately 11 500 kroner per annual work in 2011, with the assumptions underlying the agreement made by the parties. This means that from the beginning of the previous government period, an increase in income has been provided that is slightly higher than on average for other groups, provided that the same estimates of cost developments are made. The welfare systems are strengthened by 5 p.m., and the demands of agriculture also pointed out that welfare systems are clearly strengthened during this government. The agreement also contains several measures which were assessed as a whole to strengthen the grass-based livestock and milk production separately. However, grass-based livestock farming is said to be such a large proportion of Norwegian agriculture as to be a demanding priority. With an increase of 375 million in appropriations. kr the premium rates for the grass-based livestock population are increased by approximately 490 million. kr. It is possible by targeting the means and disposal of savings. It is in my opinion to give priority. The operating grant rates for milk and beef are increasing by 140 million. kr. It has a strong structure profile. At the same time, subsidies are increased for the first units of livestock subsidies, while the area limit for premium for roughage is moved from 200 to 250 dechar. These grips must be seen in the context. It strengthens the compensation for scallopes, which are particularly linked to the building stock, while at the same time reducing the possibility of unwanted adjustment of grants with the areas that can be moved between active enterprises through rental. One important element in the settlement was that the government went in and said that the transition to the percentage of liquid milk and cream could be used as a basis for the agreement. It provides greater protection and security on the domestic market. And that was a natural part of the priority of milk production. There are areas with more difficult production conditions and weaker development than other areas that are most important to achieve with the policy instruments we have. It is these areas that will suffer if we leave the market alone. This is why these areas are also given priority this year. The freight systems are strongly reinforced, which makes a significant contribution to equal profitability regardless of geography. Freight schemes are a targeted instrument in the centre–periphery dimension, and this is important in agricultural policy. It strengthens the competitiveness of edge producers – it becomes more economically interesting for all reception facilities to buy their production. This will also strengthen the basis for continuing agriculture — and keeping the land in operation — throughout the country. Improvements in cargo arrangements, together with reduced price differences in power feed, also contributed to the rightness of reducing some district subsidies. The aim of the district grants is to contribute to providing equivalent income opportunities in order to maintain a geographical distribution of production. The funds must then be used where necessary, not in the areas where market shares are held. Therefore, it was also appropriate to differentiate the subsidies to the pig population and to differentiate the operating grant for milk production. All areas receive a higher grant, but the increase is at least on the Iron. The operating grant is particularly important for the smallest enterprises and this amendment provides for a greater increase in areas where production conditions are more difficult and the economies of scale are smaller. The agreement also concludes the harmonisation of the operating grant for milk production between types of enterprises that started in 2004. This means that the grant measure does not discriminate between different types of milk production companies of the same size. Equally large undertakings are granted equivalent operating grants, regardless of whether any of the entity's allowances have been purchased, leased or several allowance holders have merged into a joint venture. Thus, cooperatives established after 1 July 2004 are also treated in a non-discriminatory manner with those established before that date. As a result, local conditions determine the choice of organisational form rather than the adjustment of grants. In the setting, the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right say that ‘conversion to larger and more efficient units is necessary’. At the same time, it is pointed out that agricultural policy has failed because the number of active agricultural holdings is still declining. Does the Progress Party and the Right really believe that the structural changes in agriculture would have been less affected by the deregulation and reduction of transfers they are in favour of? I believe that a shift to larger and more efficient units must mean an increased take-off of businesses. The Progress Party also continues to reiterate the need for food producers to have more control over their own production and for politicians and bureaucrats to have less influence. Does the Progress Party really believe that farmers are more able to control their own production in a deregulated market, where the primary stage is weakened and each farmer becomes a downstream contract producer? I think it's going to be the opposite. Through the settlement, we have continued an income promise for the farmers. And we've been giving very clear priority to the instruments. That is what policy is supposed to do. My ambition is to continue to strengthen agriculture and pursue the goals we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1657	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1660	I have registered that the Council of State has been on the 10th anniversary of the SLF, on 10 June, and stated among other things. There are 48 000 farmers in Norway. When we go into the SSB's number, we figure out that it's only 12.8 pst. of all the farmers who have more than 90 pst. of agricultural income. So we have an incredible number of farmers who are not full-time farmers. Then I also register that the depositor Per Olaf Lundteigen at Wikiquote has stated the following: «The country shall be governed for future generations by men and women who rise early in the morning.» He also said: «My recipe for success: Get up early in the morning, work hard, seek subsidies.» Then my question to the Council of State is, Is this something that the Council of State also agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1677	It is true that I have participated in the 10th anniversary of the Staten Agrarian Administration, SLF. It is an important institution in agriculture, which is responsible for a large part of the implementation of the agricultural policy adopted in the United Kingdom. It is also true that I said in this respect that there were 48 000 farmers, or grant applicants, just as I said that there are 50 000 in the food industry who depend on the same production. In my opinion, food production is an important part of a total value chain for food, one of the most important in the country, and it contributes to ensuring the food industry in the future. With regard to the question from the representative Treldal about the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, I think it is best that this question be asked directly to this representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1684	In the farm, it is set at about 60 million. kr to strengthen organic farming. We know that organic farming uses about 5 pst. of the areas, but that what comes from there only covers approx. 2 pst. of the consumption. This means that there is a significant failure in production compared to normal production on organic farming. But the target of 15 pst. by 2020 will mean that we have a crop decline in Norway of over 10 pst. When we get there. Is it a scenario that worries the Minister of Agriculture? How does he think to attack it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1691	The target of 15 pst. Organic production in 2020 has the basis for us wanting to take advantage of the opportunities offered by organic production. I would like to stress that organic production is also important because it gives clear signals on how to further develop conventional production, among others. with regard to animal welfare and e.g. use of sprays. A good organic farmer is a good agronomist, just as a good conventional farmer is a good agronomist. Then we have a discussion about the consequences for the total food production. Of course, I am concerned that we are going to increase Norwegian food production in the future, with population growth and with the challenges we face to ensure national food production, and then we also need to balance it. But so far, I don't see that there are any major challenges to being able to meet the demands of increased food production, while at the same time working on achieving the ambitious target of 15 pst. organic production and consumption in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1698	In the United Nations on 27 May, it says, as I'm sure the Council of State has noticed, that 16,000 farmers will be gone in 20 years. The Christian People's Party has several proposals for action that we believe can be involved in and prevent this development. Equally with other occupational groups in terms of wage development, long-term and predictable framework conditions with a greater focus on budgetary resources, skills building, especially in the school, where food production could be part of the offer, some measures are randomly selected. My question concerns soil protection – without soil, no food production, no farmers. In this case, the Christian People's Party proposes that the authority for the re-disposal of food soil be transferred from the municipalities to the county. What does the Council of State think of such a proposal by the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1706	First of all, I would like to stress that the calculation of the reference in the national newspaper is something that the nations themselves have done. It's pure math. Minus 2.5 pst. 48 000 for 20 years to come yields 16 000. I said in this context that I am concerned that we should counteract these trends, but we cannot guarantee ourselves against changes in Norwegian agriculture. That's my entrance. As far as the issue of soil protection is concerned, it is very important, and I am very pleased that Andersen Eide, the representative, is asking questions about it, because today we have major challenges to address the resource base, in order to ensure the increased food production in the future. In my opinion, the main challenges lie in the municipalities. I do not think that the politicians of the municipalities in general are conscious enough and responsible enough yet. My job, at least today, is to go further and point out that they need to become more responsible, and then we need to consider changes if these measures do not have enough impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1713	The left wants to continue the agricultural negotiations, but as a pure income agreement between farmers and the state. All other grants and schemes which do not give direct income effects to the farmer should be transferred to ordinary government budget items. What does the Minister of Agriculture think of this? Does he see the challenge of this being problematic, or will he defend the existing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1720	I will, of course, defend the existing system. I believe that what we have through the agricultural agreement is very important to care for. At the same time, I should not say that it is not possible to make changes in the future. The parties must do that, the government must do that, and so must the Stortinge. With regard to the proposal to have only pure-bred income-generating elements in an agricultural contract negotiation, I would just like to stress and question it, because that would also mean, for example, that. the forest policy reserve shall be taken out. This would involve the withdrawal of investment funds, which are an extremely important part of the agricultural agreement. This would require the removal of regional environmental programmes, which contribute to agriculture itself taking responsibility for part of its emissions. I'm not sure you get any better results with a different principle here. I think we will achieve the best results by allowing agriculture and agriculture themselves, through agreements, to participate in the discussion on these instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1727	I think The Nations of May 27 this year is a popular newspaper. I'm also going to show it a little bit – it says at least 16 000, and it says at least every three farms. A government council may call this an arithmetic, but it's an arithmetic that shows that the trend we've seen for many, many years, with fewer farms, fewer farmers and more empty farm buildings, continues. I see that Normann Anesland, Professor, says the following about how to reverse development: ‘Free the farmers from a comprehensive and detailed regulatory system and strengthen the farmers as self-employed. Insert instruments and tax advantages that stimulate farmers to build up more equity. Remove the regulation of property prices, remove the obligation to live in person and increase the production limits.» Which of these measures, which are similar to what the Progress Party wants, can the Council of States participate in and thus save Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1739	As I said, it's an arithmetic that this is referred to in the Nations newspaper, and it gives a picture of a thoughtful development if you reduce by 2.5 pst. each year, which has also been the situation in recent years. I would like to stress that we need to imagine continuing changes in Norwegian agriculture, but I work every day to counteract this departure that is predicted by, for example. The Nations newspaper, which is referred to in this case. What we are doing is developing, through the agricultural agreement, instruments to help ensure agriculture throughout the country, that we ensure the activity and level of production, which we have to do to ensure a high level of self-sufficiency. I just want to say that the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting will have a much greater negative effect than what is expected in the Nations newspaper. It is only to refer to their proposal for the market adaptation of virtually all instruments in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1748	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1751	First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the rapporteurs' very good presentation of the settings we are now considering. So I have to start by saying that it's a moral obligation to use the resources we've gathered together. Today, some 6.8 billion people live on earth. Hunger affects nearly a billion people every day. By 2050, we can expect nine billion people to live on what we can produce from food. In the world today, half of the food produced becomes food waste. 1/3 of the food that people buy is wasted. If we're going to do the task of feeding nine billion people without anyone having to get hungry, we have to make demands on ourselves and on agricultural production. We need to maintain a sufficient self-sufficiency of food. It is a quality that you can produce food that is safe — of good quality — all over the country. It is a quality that agriculture is in many places one of the most important carriers of value creation and employment. It is also a quality to maintain the cultural landscape and to facilitate widespread settlement. The main agreement for agriculture, agricultural negotiations, regulations and transfers is the framework around that system. We can't take out individual elements to think you're going along those qualities. On the contrary – it is quite problematic. The year’s negotiations have, from start to finish, had a clear profile in order to strengthen rural agriculture by investing in grass-based livestock and strengthening the milk production economy. It was, is and is going to be important. In fact, it's about exploiting production opportunities across the country. In the vote, the political divides are clear. It's actually black and white. Far from the majority, the Party of Advancement stands. They dream about, as they put it: ‘a normal market-based system governed by supply and demand’. [[...]] Yes, provocative. They even write: ‘In a market-based system, competition between manufacturers will also arise, leading to better products, innovation and more cost-effective production. This will contribute to better income opportunities for producers who are skilled, innovative and good businessmen.» Competition between producers is, of course, present, even if there is a regulated market. The products in Norwegian agriculture are good, but it is also of the greatest benefit to producers if they develop and focus on this, which I believe they are absolutely doing. Innovation: Yes, the possibilities of additional income, new ways of walking, optimal value creation, are, as a matter of principle, also in today's agriculture. Cost effectiveness: Yes, agricultural labour productivity improvement is 4.8 pst. in the last 10 years, against the rest of business during the same period of 2,6 pst. Yes, there's going to be some strange production, based on what the Progress Party writes, and what they actually want. Furthermore, in their comments, they say that they: ‘will point out that market-based systems operate in all other markets and therefore there is no reason to exempt agriculture from them’. Yes, agriculture is regulated, but it is a regulated market as in many other sectors. Most markets are in fact regulated in some way. What is the reality of what the Progress Party will actually want is a total deregulation of Norwegian agriculture – total deregulation! And there's something quite different than talking about highlighting the possibilities of agriculture by facilitating the farmer. It's actually about removing import protection. It's about removing the transfers from the state. It is about removing the requirements placed on the market for properties. It is about removing relationships related to living and working conditions. Yes, this is about a total conversion of Norwegian agricultural policy. And when the representative Treldal believes these regulations make the farmer a public employee, there's reason to hear what he's actually saying. Agriculture is a demanding and ingenious system in our tradition. Right-wing approaches are somewhat more unclear and more obscure. It may be interesting to know how many steps Right must take before they can equate with the Progress Party and go for a total deregulation of Norwegian agriculture, too. The framework for fulfilling our moral obligations to exploit the opportunities to produce food is to further develop the existing system that we have today in connection with Norwegian agriculture. The opposite is to liquidate. The main difference is simply between those who want to develop further, and those who want to liquidate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1787	Cases relating to the termination of the main agreement for agriculture and agriculture settled in 2010 m.m. are two important issues that can be debated for many days and with a width of content that is almost unlimited. It also makes me a little uncertain about where to start, and where to stop. While agriculture in the past was a highly labour-intensive industry, it has now been very mechanized. Tractors and implements have become much larger. The farm buildings are more efficient and the farms have grown larger. We've got joint ventures, and the working hours have become more similar to those of others. From being a full-time farmer – and I mean a full-time farmer – the new independent farmer will have a more common working time, free on weekends and holidays. He also wants freedom over his production and property. In recent years, regardless of civil or socialist government, the number of farms and the number of farmers has been greatly reduced. In the nations of May 27 this year, we can read that another 16,000 farmers will be gone in 20 years. It is also said that every three farms will be removed. This shows that the trend will continue. At the same time, the number of empty farms will increase. Today it stands about. 35,000 holdings inch. This is due essentially to the policies pursued, including: the maximum price for farm use is a major contributory cause, as well as the obligation to live and operate. Only in the last four years with socialist government and a Central Party Council, has the number of farms been reduced by 4,419. The number of farmers has been reduced, and the number of deer cultivated area has decreased by 141 000. At the same time, we know that almost 400,000 Norwegians are interested in buying a farm. They want to live there with their family and drive the farm on – perhaps not with the same production, but with something they believe in. Others want a small farm where they can be parts of the year. The party believes that this too is better than that it remains empty. There will be light in the windows parts of the year. You push up, and the district around can sell its services – a win-win situation for everyone. The Progress Party believes that the other parties have to a greater or lesser extent not been involved in the development. Society has changed. The way in which people live has also changed, while ruling politicians have wanted to determine how Norwegian agriculture should be. Therefore, I would argue that Norwegian agricultural policy has been too much influenced by rural policy over the past 30 years, where agriculture has had to pay for the whole of Norway to have a residence and employment. Norway needs fast-paced, positive farmers. From the time you were so lucky to be a nobleman or a nobleman with a safe future, there are now very many who are unsure whether that is what they want. We politicians have to think about this. We need to make agriculture and forestry more attractive as a profession. We must give freedom, and we must have a tax policy that benefits the industry. We need to eliminate regulations and maximum prices. We have to say yes to most of it. Yes to tourism and agriculture. Yes to the dissociation and freedom of property opportunities. Yes to additional industries that are initially not agricultural-related. Yes to niche products and niche product sales, such as alcoholic beverages. I saw that the council had become positive about this, but the Progress Party has always been positive about it. We must not control everything in Norwegian agriculture in detail. The industry itself must be allowed to develop. We have to be positive for co-operation. And why can't we have ASs in Norwegian agriculture or forestry? An AS will take care of all the interests, and there's nothing new, either. We must have a predatory policy that takes care of the interests of the industry and a policy that safeguards the potential of the buffalo. There must be a policy that allows individual property, for example: selling to hunting and outdoor interests. With the large stock of predators that we have today, this is not possible. This means that districts lose large income opportunities and some properties lose their value. It must be wrong for some districts alone to bear the burden of the desire of the big society, for example. large populations of bears and wolves. The same applies to the law on motor travel in the field. With a more flexible law here, this could have helped to make agriculture more interesting, and the quality of life for many would have increased. We all have different interests, and with this possibility many of the 35,000 empty farms would have been sold. We also need to look at concession, housing and running obligations. The law must simply be removed. It has expired a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1808	Agriculture is an important foundation for housing and a well-kept cultural landscape in Norway, while also helping to provide the basis for other businesses around the country. The right considers that there are high potential values in agriculture. These values we want to release to strengthen farmers' opportunities to develop more profitable and forward-looking agriculture and forestry throughout the country. We want to make it easier for the farmer to develop a more varied and exciting Norwegian food offering, but to succeed, one must be willing to give the industry new opportunities to develop. A robust agricultural industry will help to achieve our common objectives of continuing significant Norwegian food production, differentiated housing and a well-kept cultural landscape. The right considers that agriculture is in good company with, for example: the tourism industry and the fishing industry, and are of great importance in the future to ensure a positive development in many communities and to maintain the basis for active agriculture throughout the country. Conversion to larger and more efficient units must then be possible. On 8 June, the Central Statistical Office published new statistics showing that every third small user is under 50 dekars uninhabited. The statistics show that the agricultural policy that the government is pursuing does not deliver the results for rural settlements that we all want. The statistics show that the further into the districts, the higher the rate of empty use. We see that the distance to the labour market is crucial for many to remain able to live on and live on from their minor uses, because the economy is often in need of additional income for agricultural income. A commitment to local food and drink production will be crucial for future agriculture, for tourism and for living and active rural communities throughout the country. Unfortunately, today’s legislation on production, distribution and serving is a hindrance to the success of producers. Right-wing wants to stimulate increased efforts at geographical origin marking and liberalisation of the rules for processing food on their own farm, without compromising food security. Together with the Progress Party, we are therefore promoting proposals to allow demonstration sales and serving on visits to production premises or in connection with them, while calling for the abolition of all production regulations, such as production regulations. milk quotas, if processed on its own farm. Investing in joint ventures is forward-looking. The co-operation system has come to be. Right will stimulate increased bets on this type of operating scheme, which too many are a good alternative to farm closure. There is no doubt that co-operation is important for Norwegian agriculture and for recruitment to the industry. The scheme is positive because it allows farmers more organised working time and leisure time and helps meet the goal of diverse and versatile usage structures across the country. The fact that participants in the cooperative are currently not allowed to participate in the milk quota rental scheme within the current ceiling of 750 tonnes is very unfortunate. When exemption from the overproduction charge was adopted for production of up to 10 pst. in addition to the allocated quota to increase milk production, this scheme did not apply to individual uses which exceed a volume of 408000 litres or to joint farms which pass 750000 litres. On the right, this is probably an example of discrimination against joint ventures and wider use in Norway. We believe that the maximum quota for individual and combined farms should be raised and that there should be a more free movement of milk quotas within the current geographical framework. A growth in the quota must be possible through the purchase of concessions so that total production is not affected. In order to make the co-operation more profitable and less bureaucratic, the Right will remove geographical and numbering constraints that currently seem very negative for the form of co-operation, and we want joint ventures to be able to lease allowances up to the quota ceiling. It is important that the government facilitates political restrictions that only act as brake blocks for cooperative farmers wishing to develop sustainable dairy farming in the future. Co-operation is an alternative to closure for many farmers, as I said. In fact, the current agricultural agreement discriminates against cooperatives and larger uses by reducing aid per litre of milk produced significantly in the case of high production. I would like to underline the importance of economic instruments that promote co-operation and stimulate more cooperation between farms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1829	The main agreement regulates formal and mutually committed cooperation between the country and the agricultural economic operators on the implementation of the agricultural policy defined by the Stortinget. The main agreement thus regulates the right of organisations to negotiate the framework conditions for the agricultural industry and the way in which the negotiations are to be conducted. The agreement regulates the process, the parties' rights and obligations, but not the material content of the contract itself, which may seem to some here believe. A reason why it is useful to cancel the main agreement is that it is not right for an industry to negotiate directly with the state. They want the market to control everything. When it comes to controlling everything on the market, the Labour Party is fundamentally indistinguishable from the Progress Party. We believe that the market is a good server, but a bad master. The market must be controlled in this way. Lack of market governance was a main reason for the financial crisis, and that is what the Progress Party applauds. Another factor for the market to control everything is that the social tasks imposed on agriculture are not implemented and followed up if it is the market on its own. This can be good as society demands, but there's no market for it there and there. Nor does the market take into account Community values or, for example: climate challenges. The agreement has proved to be able to handle the changes in externally given framework conditions. The content of the annual agreements is also developed within the framework of the negotiations. This is evident by the fact that in recent years a number of adjustments have been made to the target price system, market regulation mechanisms and budgetary support – as an adaptation to international rules. In Soria Moria II we say red-green that we will continue the agricultural negotiations. I'm glad of this. Agriculture agreements are simply a tool for implementing the agricultural policy agreed by the Stortinget, a tool for the Advance Party to remove. The contractual system can also be seen as a natural part of the Norwegian model of compulsory cooperation between the public and the labour and business sectors. The Norwegian model is based on tripartite cooperation. Fortunately, Norway has a high level of organisation and a wide representation of employees in companies. This is a strength. Tripartite cooperation has led to economic stability, smaller conflicts and a common social responsibility. The model is the hallmark of mutual respect and cooperation. As the Progress Party is also opposed to trade unions, and thus the Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation, I do not take my mouth to heart when I claim that economic stability is a lack of success with the Progress Party's policy. The level of conflict will increase, and it will be up to the individual and the market to take social responsibility. And as I said, the market doesn't care about the community. In my view, it is of great value that agricultural policy is designed in close cooperation with industry itself. This cooperation is precisely stimulating co-responsibility and active involvement in the implementation of agricultural policy. So there's another moment I want to mention. It's not like we're sitting here in Oslo, we always have the full overview of what an industry needs. Every shoe prints, knows the best that wears the shoe. I don't know how many councils the Progress Party has with farmers, I just have to admit that – nor any meetings with the Small User Team and the Norwegian Bond Team – but I've had a relatively large number of such meetings over the years with organizations and with individual peasants. And the cry to release, to this day, I have not heard – not once. The Western farmer in Sogn and Fjordane, whom I know best, is the hallmark of driving in foreign terrain and small units. I have not met a farmer from home who thinks that a deregulated market, where the primary link becomes weak and each farmer should be a contact producer for the later stages, will be a strengthening of the farmer and the agricultural industry – on the contrary. If all operations must be market-based, e.g. Sogn and Fjordane-bonds will meet faintly. Here is little possibility to drive big. We red-green have announced that we want a new agricultural message. This I look forward to working with. Together with the industry and organisations, we are going to chisel out a healthy, good agricultural policy and a living community in the whole country, for the benefit of consumers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1859	I really didn't intend to take the floor on this matter – there are many people who have had good speeches, and who have explained very well about the Labour Party's and Government's policies in this matter – but what made me take the floor was one of the comments of the Advance Party. They write: ‘These members are strongly critical of the agricultural policy pursued in the post-war period and continued by the current government. These members cannot therefore in any way support the negotiated agricultural agreement because it does not offer any new direction of agricultural policy, despite the fact that there is a great need for a change of course in agricultural policy". The representative of Träldal's post was no surprise in that way. It was in many ways that five lines were put under the agricultural policy of the Progress Party after that article. It is very good that from time to time we have such things as this, which fully show the great differences in politics. So what change of course is it really the Progress Party wants in Norwegian agricultural policy? In the view of the Labour Party, the agricultural policy of the Progress Party will be a disaster for Norwegian agriculture and rage District Norway. This is particularly true in three areas: Firstly, the Progress Party will repeal most of the regulations, claiming that they will somehow set the farmer free. Secondly, the Progress Party will implement rapid and dramatic cuts in support and transfers to agriculture in Norway. Thirdly, the Progress Party will remove large parts of the agricultural management. And we need to be aware that local agricultural management is often the main ally of farmers and heaving boy. The result of such a policy, as many have said, will be a large-scale reduction of this industry in the districts. I have not heard that the Progress Party has once refused to do so. We would quickly be able to have operational sizes that completely undermine the agricultural policy the Workers' Party has defended for all years. In this way, of course, Norwegian agriculture will be an industry governed by capital, there is no doubt that it will be the cheapest labour force to recover — most likely guest workers from other low-cost countries. The current organisation of the market contributes to the provision of stable prices for both the farmer and the consumer. Without this regulation, prices will vary significantly and neither the producer nor the consumer has earned. With unstable prices — and hence revenues — the desire to invest in such an industry in the long term will also be very limited. When the Progress Party wants free competition internally in agriculture, they choose to ignore the fact that conditions are very different within Norway’s borders — and even more different if we compare with agricultural areas in, for example, agriculture. Sweden and Poland. The party wants a Norwegian farmer to compete with a farmer from Skåne. The competition cannot be equal to when the starting point is so different. It goes without saying - it's going to be a rough party! The Progress Party also has a static view of agriculture, and talks about an industry that does not change. The lot has not realised that there are few industries which have undergone major changes than this particular industry. As I said, the Advance Party will release the peasants. But it actually seems like they'll let go of the farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1891	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1894	Agriculture is essential for food production, housing and business throughout the country. I believe that as a nation, we have a great responsibility, even in an international context, to exploit our productive areas for the production of food. We have in fresh memory the international food supply crisis. It showed with all clarity the importance of agriculture for society. Whether we understand it or not, we are totally dependent on an agriculture that produces safe food, in order to survive at all. Therefore, agriculture cannot be controlled by market forces alone. And that is why the agricultural agreement is so important, as many have been involved in today's debate. I am pleased that today's government so strongly points out the need for varied agricultural and food production across the country. I am pleased that this year we also have a negotiated agreement to deal with, but I should of course have wanted there to be a full consensus in the industry. I want to draw attention to the climatic and topographical differences in the production of agricultural products in our country. This remains a focus — including the need for more attention to be paid to the investment needs of agriculture, especially in certain parts of the country. I would also like to comment on the ever-recurring proposal by the Progress Party to cut the whole agricultural agreement. I'm concerned that we're going to have a living agriculture all over the country. I myself live in an area in the northern part of the country where agriculture is of great importance – also to society as a whole. Agriculture had hardly existed in this area without the state taking its clear responsibility to maintain it. I see that one of the proposers comes from my own geographical area, and I have to say that I am surprised that the reality can be so different from me and from the representative of Treldal. After hearing his articles today, I am even more frightened. The difference may be that I live in the middle of the farmland, and that I often talk over the fence with the farmers who are in the industry today. The reality is very good to bring with it, also in the political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1909	The Norwegian School of Commerce organised its Spring Conference on 1 June this year. There, a Swedish professor who had studied the development of the share price of American companies stated that the companies that had committed strategies in an environmentally friendly way had a decline rather than an increase in their stock prices on the stock exchange. Or as she said, Yes to save the world, but not with my money! This is the reality in the United States. In Norway, it is very similar. That is why more far-sighted and responsible policy leaders are needed to change the business environment! The UN's first Millennium Goal, to be realized by 2015, says that hunger in the world should be halved. However, developments are heading in the opposite direction. About 1 billion now are starving. Few in Norway and the economically rich countries talk a lot about it — much less do something about it. The dependence of Norway on imported food and feed grain increases daily. So we're going in the opposite direction. At the same time, we have the climate crisis, which very many people are talking about. But CO2 can only be purified by photosynthesis of green plants. Its more green and its more processing of these plants into food and processed products, the better for the climate. Responsible national leaders must therefore choose a new course to address two of the world's greatest challenges. The UN Food Organisation, FAO, says that the international agricultural policy course must be reversed in relation to a free trade line of food that has been run since the mid-1980s. Now the FAO says that this has led to significant losses. The hunger that increases, and the reduction of fertility over large agricultural areas, is the evidence. The way in which food is produced needs to be changed so that larger areas are used to capture solar energy and food safety needs to be overarched by the requirement of the lowest possible food in the short term. Promoting the fertility of the soil and thereby its productive capacity must be centered. We have to give our farmers economic conditions so that the agricultural-interested young people can have the opportunity to exploit their productive land, cultivated land and pasture land for ecologically sound food production. In addition, Norway must work towards the reintroduction of the cereal stock – this in order to ensure greater food security in the short term in the event of ecological crises, which are much more likely to be affected by the economic conditions we are now seeing is under international en route. Norwegian agricultural policy reality is that over the past decades agricultural industries have had an average annual growth in gross labour productivity of 4.8 pst. According to the national accounts, the increase in labour productivity of mainland private industries during the period 1991–2008 was 2.6 pst. per year. It is a great paradox for many that while labour productivity growth is very high in agriculture, real income in agriculture is reduced by 34 pst. during the period 1995-2008. So far in the debate, no one has defended this context. Therefore, this fundamental fact is mentioned in today's agricultural policy, which needs to be amended, by changing the policy instruments for Norwegian agriculture as an industry in the forthcoming big business report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1929	I expect the Minister of Agriculture to take note of the considerable criticism of Norwegian agricultural policy that came from the latter speakers. I'll try to take care of that criticism a little bit more. The Minister of Agriculture answers any question about the decline in use in agriculture, saying that if a different policy had been implemented, the one for which the right parties stand – often especially the Progress Party – I hear here, but also the Right – it would have been even worse. That's the answer we always hear. But couldn't the Minister of Agriculture try to tell us why it's going this way anyway, because it's the effects of his own policy, which has been driven over the past five or six years, instead of frightening us with scenarios of a policy that you're just talking about here in the hall, for which you're anxious, but nobody's seen? That, along with the criticism from Lundtegen, I think it's something you should take with you. Then I would also like to say, when I hear the number of speakers from the Workers' Party who are afraid of how Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian agriculture will look like there's never so little change in anything at all – when, on the one hand, I hear the chairman of the Committee in one sentence talk about the world's need for food, people who are hungry and moral commitments, things I can agree with, and on the other hand, set up the agricultural policy of the opposition parties as if there were the two opposite sides of this – that I think it's going a long way. We propose a slightly changed course for our part. It's not going to tear up either the Norwegian model or the rest of the world at the end of the day, but it might help us to see that the reduction in use and the development with which the Minister of Agriculture is not doing anything could change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1940	The government is now notifying a start on an agricultural growth message. This looks the industry up to, and they have hopes for that. Nothing is static, nor is Norwegian agricultural policy. We hear once and for all that agriculture and neighboring industry are referred to as sunset industries. This isn't the picture we're left with in District Norway, where we're totally dependent on high activity in agriculture. In recent decades, agriculture has undergone major changes and is facing a future with new challenges well prepared. However, in order to succeed, good and long-term framework conditions are required, and these are implemented through agricultural agreements. There is a link between a living agriculture, living rural communities, beautiful cultural landscapes and opportunities for development for agricultural-derived industries. Food industry and travel are still carriers in many municipalities and communities in District Norway. The red-green government is the guarantor of continued active regional and agricultural policy. The year’s agricultural settlements merge into the range of acceptable settlements and thus contribute to life and optimism in many rural communities. This is important not only for the performer but also for creating good Norwegian raw materials for a large food industry. In my home municipality, the country's largest agricultural municipality, we have more than 1,400 jobs in the food sector that depend on safe supplies of raw materials from agriculture. These are jobs ensured by active farmers and good and wide-ranging agricultural settlements. Red-green agricultural policy is an important element in achieving the objective of food security and self-sufficiency. I therefore have a great sense of proposal No. 22, on the reintroduction of emergency storage of cereals. This may also be related to my responsibilities: civil protection in the field of justice. The alternative to today's policy has been freshened by the country's farmers from the last right-wing government. I would also like to remind you of the 2010 proposals for the State Budget from the Right and the Advance Party, where these parties proposed a reduction in the agricultural transfer of 2 billion, respectively. kr in the Right Budget and 6 billion. In the budget of the Progress Party. Individually, these proposals would reverse the trend in the agricultural sector and take life-support from future farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1957	The agricultural settlement of the year has a joyful and correct arrangement. Many expressed concerns about milk production and rural farming in advance of the settlement. Farmers’ organisations also had these areas as their main priorities before the year’s negotiations. It is therefore good that the organisations were met. For me, which comes from a state where 18-20 pst of value creation is linked to agriculture, it is important to express the importance that we manage to maintain a living agriculture also in the districts. We depend on people living in farms where food is produced and where a cultural landscape is kept open. If there's something we don't want, it's the reclaimed cultural landscape. This would be a major loss not only for agriculture but also for several other industries — not least for travel. Through this year's agricultural settlement, we are helping to secure a valuable food industry that provides jobs to a lot of people around the country, as I heard last talk about. The production of pure food and good Norwegian food products is also essential in a global context with a growing population. But our food industry depends on predictability and secure supplies of raw materials, both milk and meat. For this reason, it is also important for industry that milk production and rural agriculture are priority areas in the year’s negotiations. We see that many end up producing milk. Young people are unable to invest what is necessary in operational buildings and equipment. In addition, it is demanding in terms of family and leisure time. Young farmers are often well educated, and a job with a fixed salary and working days is more tempting and easier to combine with other activities. This development also affects the investment of the farmers who know that they only have a few years left until they become pensioners. They are uncertain as to whether anyone wants to bet on dairy farming or on the use of meat production. These are issues I am often presented to when I meet both young and older farmers. I know that the Council of State is very concerned about the problem, and that there will be a central theme in the new big business message about agriculture many are waiting for. The councils also appear to be actively listening to the new message, and many of us appreciate it. It is also a good measure to invest in the recruitment of young people to agriculture. I think it's essential that there is a knowledge development and awareness of young people entering the farm, of how they will bet. It is positive to meet young farmers with a high level of adaptability and who are engaged in entrepreneurship and innovation. I actually meet many, often women, who are betting freshly on new food products, travel life and Inn on tunet activities. This helps to make agriculture more robust and ensures the future of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e1968	The Namdal poet Olav Duun once wrote «One common man is then the kingdom of heaven worth it too?» The debate about this year's agricultural settlement gives me very mixed feelings. It makes me happy. It makes me sad. And it actually causes me to be provoked. I am pleased that we have a majority government with a capable Namdal centre party as Minister of Agriculture and Food. In recent years the agricultural situation, climate change reporting, international tensions and a new large-scale communication on agricultural policy have shown an offensive attitude. I can't see that in today's political situation, there is no other government that will better address Norwegian agriculture. So I'm sorry that the same political situation reveals a problem. Indeed, it is a major problem that it should not be possible to create an even greater acceptance in the narrow national policy environment so that ‘everyday human being’ can be ‘rich in heaven’, so that the efforts of the hardworking Norwegian farmer are to be recognised more. No composition of parties would have done the job better than the one we have today. But where I come from, it's still not good enough. So I am strongly provoked when I see what agricultural policy is in the Right and the Advance Party. It's an honest thing with ideological disagreement. We have different objectives and thus different instruments. But I'm actually provoked by their behavior. It's disrespectful, at the limit of unprofessional, when, year after year, massive income cuts are proposed against a value-creating industry so quickly that no one could have adapted to Right 2 billion. kr or the good of the Progress Party and 7 – the effect would become an agricultural frenzy overnight. This year’s settlement has a positive profile of a clear district profile and a very important focus on grass-based livestock husbandry. I am therefore further provoked when I read the comments of the Progress Party where they say they want ‘agricultural policy no longer to be part of the rural policy’. That's at least clear words for the money. But the debate also makes me proud. Because I am proud of the values that Norwegian agriculture represents. It's a great thing to reap from nature, in an interaction where you process and not depress resources. It's amazing that we've managed to maintain a rural agriculture where we're using the whole country, as opposed to most other countries. It's amazing that we have an animal welfare and a food security that makes us not need to worry about how the animals have been living and that as one of the few countries we can make egg dosage without fear of salmonella. So we have a wonderful agriculture. Duun wrote it like this: «You're like the plumber, he's also turning his crazy road – you can't look forward!» I want to look forward to the end. When I look forward, I become optimistic on behalf of agriculture. We will in the future see a completely different struggle for resources, including food. I believe that future debates will give the farmer the recognition he deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2000	It's hardly by chance that half of the northern bank comes up on the intercom after each other. It's hardly random because we make up 3 pst. of the population of Norway, and that 11 pst. agricultural products are produced in the Nord-Trøndelag. Agriculture provides a basis for almost 20 pst. of the jobs in our home state. Primary agriculture translates for 3.3 billion. kr and stands for a value creation of 1,2 billion. kr. 4,700 years' worth of work. There are not a few annual works in a state like Nord-Trøndelag. Milk production represents half of the turnover of value added and of the number of annual works. Nord-Trøndelag is the second largest dairy farm in Norway, with 11.1 pst. of milk production. And the reports from the industry are as follows: One has had stronger income growth with the red-green government than one had before. Milk production is the backbone of agriculture in the districts, and so is North-Trundelag. Old and worn-out poultry are reported. It is also reported that profitability is still too poor to defend initial investment. But that's what you want to do. The representative Fuglum and I come from about the same geographical area, and have seen about the same reality. I agree with many of the considerations put forward by Mr Fuglum. But the challenge is that there are poor opportunities to continue to defend initial investment, and those who have invested do not make enough money to defend it. It is therefore right to continue to strengthen the agricultural structure. As a result, proper action has been taken in the agricultural sector by prioritising milk production. It's very good that you now get the percentage of liquid milk products in place. Then we are also pleased with the signals about a new growth message for agriculture. It's important to the districts. Dream layers are already in progress. Here you have made a separate agricultural message for the region, and I expect that it will be a good input into the further work that the government is going to do. It has focused on other challenges facing agriculture and rural areas. Among other things, the Progress Party has been out talking about predatory challenges. Yes, there are challenges with predators, especially in the districts. That is why we are pleased with the Soria Moria II declaration, which goes in to review predatory policies and stock targets. But the reality is that the Progress Party is a greater threat to agriculture in the districts than predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2013	If we are to ensure land-wide construction, cultural landscapes, production and processing, while at the same time having competitive consumer prices, there are no simple solutions to agricultural challenges. When we're dealing with a chain of actors, with partly conflicting interests, it's a difficult balance. For us as politicians, it may be a simple and therefore wrong solution to leave the industry to itself and to market forces, such as those of us. The party of progress will. Then we can shoot a white stick after a viable agriculture and living settlements all over the country. So I'm not saying that everything should be like it already. No, it would be to trick both yourself and the nutritionists. Then we can meet the wall quite brutally and get Swedish and Finnish conditions in the districts. Of course we don't want that. National agricultural policy is based on solidarity within the industry. I'm going to say that in this industry we find something of the most solidarity we have. It is enough to mention that the milk is collected from producers without regard to where the garden is located, and the payment is equal to the same quality. The so-called channelling policy, or the division of labour between the central area and the districts, is also an example of solidarity. A decisive question is therefore: Can we keep this solidarity hold into a new era, or will we also experience a development here against the success of each and every one of them? It annoys me that some in industry and some political parties know that solidarity should be taken seriously. I see no reason to hide what I myself mean. If the solidarity solutions go away, we'll go towards a development that can't be sure of the consequences. At least one thing is certain — the challenge for agriculture will not be reduced. Norwegian agriculture must become more attractive to exploit the opportunities offered by the market. Agriculture must meet the needs of consumers, and the eating habits of the Nordics change radically. For the rest of the day, many people will have fast and cheap food. On weekends, both time and money play a smaller role. We just need to recognise that globalisation has seen major social and political changes. Consumers are becoming important as press groups in the market and thus a developmental provider. Consumers have become much more conscious than before. And even if the North uses only 10 pst. of wages and salaries for food, Norwegians travel across the Swedish border to buy even cheaper food. I look forward to getting a new big message. This year's data is good, although the industry's expectations were much higher. The farmers get a useful paycheck, and this government is making a strong effort to develop the cultural landscape. That's good for the farmers, and that's good for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2028	In my first post, I had to concentrate on the main agreement, so I want to take the floor to comment on a couple of other issues that have been raised in the debate. First a little comment to the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide. Several of the issues she raises have been more pervasive in this government than in the Christian People's Party government. This applies not least to income policy. It was relatively stable on the side of income policy during the previous government. There was a useful development in income development when we got the red-green government. Then I want to say a little about the profile of the entry. The agreement we are discussing today has a much more district-friendly and environmentally friendly profile than the agreements that Sponheim negotiated. We have agreements that focus on grazing and agreements that focus on roughage – we use the national resources, and it is also important for environmental thinking and for global climate change. We have an agreement that focuses on the environment and thus takes care of the districts, which is also an important part of the environmental profile in this statement. In addition, we have increased the direct revenues of environmental measures by 157 million. kr. So my conclusion is that when the Left adds up to criticizing this statement because it's not environmentally friendly enough, they should take a little look in the mirror and see what Sponheim did.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2037	I am pleased with the support of the Christian People's Party to reintroduce grain stocks from the central government party, at the representative Lundtigen. The seed stocks are empty, and we have to import 6,000 tonnes to meet the needs this year. We've experienced the ash cloud from Iceland, and we know how vulnerable we can be. Lack of cereals in an acute situation must be prevented by restocking stocks. Then we must choose to ignore what previous governments have said in this matter, with or without the Christian People's Party. This is too important a case for a record to be made in previous decisions. We are dealing with two things today at the same time. I chose in my main post to focus on the agricultural business. It was a deliberate choice. For the Christian People's Party, agriculture is one of the most important issues we deal with here on the Stortinget, and this is where the Christian People's Party has something to add to the government parties. That is why there will be a brief comment on the proposal for a representative from the Progress Party to terminate the main agreement on agriculture. The Christian People's Party believes that such a policy, in combination with the removal of the obligation to live, will undermine the possibilities of a living agricultural and rural community throughout the country. In order to ensure food production and active agriculture throughout the country, we want to keep the current system clear. The Christian People's Party does not support the proposal of the Progress Party – and that was as expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2045	It's kind of cute to sit in this room and hear everyone who's going to explain what's the Progress Party's policy. But with all due respect: I believe the Advance Party can – and knows – policy its best. The representative Lillian Hansen said we were trying to undermine the Labour Party's policy. Yeah, that's right. It is clear that we must undermine the Labour Party's policy, because it shows that it does not work – but ours will work. Then you have to look at what the government is doing. You put up a milk toll of 388 pst. This has led to major reactions in the EU, which say to retaliate against, for example: fish or other industry — export products, possibly held by the nation of Norway. This is clearly said from Swedes, Finns and Danes – and others in the EU. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised, and I am a little disappointed when I register that we have a head of the business committee that is opposed to free trade. We have a leader in the nutrition committee who is opposed to us acting freely across borders. It goes into agreements that make the Norwegian industry and the food industry wear out. And he's on a collision course with the fishing industry, with the food industry and with professors who support exactly what the Progress Party says -- the importance of letting it be free competition, which we're not going to be allowed to do, in terms of imports. If everything is as wrong as the government parties claim, namely that there was no agricultural policy left if the Progress Party came to power, I find it strange that there is at all a single cow left in Europe. After all, we are the only country in Europe – and in the OECD – that has this kind of policy. So initially – if it was so bad – it should never have been a single cow, as I say, again in these countries. You can look at New Zealand. In 1986, New Zealand had to deregulate, and a great deal had to be done. New Zealand and Norway have very similar topography. They were lying all the way down, with their backs broken. The deregulated, they made rules – in line with the policies of the Progress Party. It meant that today is actually 60 pst. of all agricultural exports in New Zealand. And what's the difference -- why do they do it, and not us? You can buy lamb in northern Sweden, which is much cheaper than in Norway, and then you've transported it from all over the world. No, with all due respect, if we continue to follow the government's policy, we're not just going to have a border trade of over ten billion. kr – it will probably be NOK 20 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2058	The centre party is engaged in a live agricultural activity throughout the country. That means we have to use the possibilities we have to produce food on the areas that we have. Even what is referred to as ‘the best agricultural land in the country’ has an arctic character in a European context. That is why it is so important that we have an agricultural policy for the whole country. Food production in Norway is dependent on a government willing to invest in agriculture. A red-green government is such a government. All parts of Norwegian agriculture depend on a government that is willing to maintain customs protection, which maintains a high level of government transfers, and which is willing to accept a higher food price than our neighbouring country has. A new zone, referred to as the Jären zone, was introduced in the 2010 agricultural situation and a stronger targeting of the measures. I will not hide that it has been challenging to defend this grip against good peasants on the Iron. At the same time, we see that the challenges are greatest in what is referred to as rural agriculture. The negotiated agreement between the parties continues to establish some of this targeting. I hope that the announced notification of agricultural growth will provide a broader approach to the problem of targeting the instruments than is contained in the agreement concluded. I have to say that I am very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture last night was in Klepp and got a message from a full hall of engaged young farmers from Jären. It will be difficult to ensure agriculture throughout the country, while not challenging the solidarity that characterises Norwegian agriculture. However, on the day we lose rural agriculture, this will also have major consequences for the farmers in the heavy agricultural areas. I feel that a total agricultural industry agrees with such a description of reality. Norwegian farmers have great expectations for the Centerpartiet, and I believe that history is clear – Norwegian agriculture is best served by a government with the Centerpartiet. Because the option is big cut with the Right or Advance Party, and it cannot explain away all the market rhetoric. Some of us have received a letter signed by the Right-Rapporteur in Bjerkreim, where he is critical of the government's agricultural policy. I am sure of one thing: it is no longer of its own party's and the agricultural policy of the Progress Party this rapporteur in the district municipality of Bjerkreim's demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2075	The paradox of higher labour productivity and declining real incomes for agriculture has been described by the English economist Hans Singer with regard to the situation in developing countries. As a result of perfect competition on the commodity market internationally, commodity producers have to surrender the productivity gains to customers. Imperfect competition in industry and parts of the service sector, such as banks and food chains, leads them to a far greater degree to retain the benefits of their own productivity development. The crisis in the 1930s struck first in agriculture, with disastrously falling prices. To remedy this, all countries gave market power to farmers’ organisations. That is why all rich countries also protect their agricultural production. The first World War II farm survey reports understood these economic mechanisms and thus understood that agriculture cannot only increase capital spending and thereby increase labour productivity in order to make its economic problems more effective. Agriculture meets decreasing yields as production increases. This means that the more intensive production, the less yields, agriculture has as an industry for each new unit the input factor in production. This is particularly important for us in Norway for the use of power feed in grass-based livestock. When Bill Gates makes a device of Windows Vista, it might cost him $500 million, while additional devices that are distributed online may just cost 1 to 2 cents to produce. These are economies of scale which characterise industry and the provision of advanced services, which are the opposite of the situation of farmers. This fundamental fact is important to discuss in order to find a new set of instruments for developing Norwegian agriculture in line with international requirements and national societal tasks. Fair payment for social work must be a red-green policy plate. From a historical and an international perspective, the largest strength of the Norwegian agricultural model is the owner-occupier working on his own farm, either on a full-time or part-time basis. We do not have the tradition of farming as an industry in companies with limited financial responsibilities, such as limited liability companies. A company's agriculture requires the usual return on capital employed and income in line with the wage or salary of comparable occupations. For example, if the income in the industry is not sufficient to ensure this, it must: the holder of the farm is working more or less diligently for the company. Most people will eventually understand that this is not sustainable, rather a permanent form of operation. It is therefore necessary to put an end to any agricultural policy favouring company agriculture. Whether this company's agriculture has to compete on the same terms as the Norwegian agricultural model with family farming full-time or part-time, developments will quickly show that family ownership is socially sovereign and business best for domestic and soil workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2090	The debate shows, not surprisingly, well-known lines of agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party has been and is committed to giving farmers the opportunity for reasonable income development, because it is vital not least to ensure the recruitment of the profession. The moment of truth for agricultural policy is in many ways when the next generation is at the time of the elections and is it going to be considered – is it going to take over what the parents have built up, or is it going to be a different path? That choice is kind of a test of the quality of the agricultural policy we have. Very often, there is an investment need for such a choice, for such an acquisition. There may be worn-out operational buildings, there may be expectations of future requirements that the previous generation has not dared to take into account. This will lead to a rise in new investments, new operating buildings, etc., for the next generation to bet. Thus, there are also expectations of reasonable income trends and the conditions for investing that are essential for ensuring the recruitment of the profession. The Christian People's Party has therefore stated in our remarks in the preamble that we will stress that agriculture must be given a framework which will enable the industry to renew the apparatus. In this context, important instruments will be to ensure an agricultural settlement that provides a reasonable level of income. It will also be to review depreciation rates, which will of course be the investment framework under Innovation Norway, but it will also be to a greater extent to take into account that some of these young people who consider whether to continue to invest see co-operation as the only possibility for them to dare to do so. It is in the interest of the new generations to impose other requirements on the working environment, to impose other requirements on leisure time and to feel the need to spread the risk of making the necessary large investments in a forward-looking use. The Christian People's Party is therefore promoting – in line with our view – our policy on fair income development, but we also believe that it is important to have a greater focus on the investment framework to ensure that new generations continue to drive Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2106	When you have a lot on your heart, sometimes you have to take an extra three-minute post. I have to admit that in the case of agriculture, the farmers have got a place in my heart. In my first post, I showed that the restrictions on the number of members of a cooperative must be lifted. The same applies to the maximum distance between farms forming part of a single joint operation and to the possibility to lease allowances up to the quota ceiling. In fact, the current agricultural agreement discriminates against the co-operation of major uses by reducing aid per litre of milk produced significantly in the case of high production. The right believes that a flat support rate system should be established for each milk elite produced. It should not be the case that those who produce little are praised, while dairy farmers who want to bet on greater use are penalised. We also know that many of the co-operatives are struggling financially because of large investments in computer equipment, new technologies and operating buildings, as well as reduced support, in relation to the one they had as a sole proprietorship. Therefore, the right considers that an improvement in the depreciation rules will also be important. I have noticed that today this is mainly the Right Party and the Christian People's Party talking about the business of cooperative farmers. I've heard very little from the government parties. The right-hand side expects that the situation of cooperatives and the opportunities offered by joint farming for a more forward-looking agriculture will be an important part of the new agricultural notification. We believe that the cooperative system must be made more profitable and less bureaucratic than today. I hope that the Council of State will take this call from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2115	It is with great wonder that you hear the speeches from the government parties, such as: Lillian Hansen of the Workers' Party, who has a long attack on the Progress Party and does not talk about the solutions the government parties have, with the exception of more and more transfers. That's how they get to control the agriculture they want, now I think. The word «freedom» is not mentioned at all. Expressions such as flexibility or looking at new opportunities are also not mentioned, and innovation is totally absent. It may seem that the members of the government do not take into account that the number of farms and the number of farmers is reduced day by day. What are the other solutions to get the lights in the windows on all the farms that are now empty? - I'm just asking. What do the government parties do for those who have no part in a farm and want to take over? There must then be other solutions than what Mr Lundtegen said to Mr Bonde and Mr Kleinbruker. 2 for 2010. Here it is incited to rebellion. What revolt it's going to be, I don't know. But I interpret it to you that you are not satisfied with your own government's agricultural policy, and that is why you are calling for this rebellion. That's very interesting, I think. Otherwise, I would like to inform some that we have had guest workers in Norwegian agriculture for many years. Mostly, all strawberries have been picked by guest workers from Poland. The same can be said with regard to much of the fruit and vegetable harvest. It is not new, but something the industry has asked for and to which the politicians have agreed. In order for the negative trend in agriculture to stop, and preferably to reverse, other solutions and ideas are needed. Freedom and innovation are the answer. We also have to assume that eight out of ten farmers have their industry outside the farm, i.e. that the full-time farmer is more or less away. I think it is good that agriculture is looking at new opportunities to raise incomes. I think it's an opportunity for Norwegian agriculture to survive. Then it is good to – like the Advance Party – facilitate machine driving, renting, tourism, product production and out-landing and many other things. But then the majority of the Biggest must be involved in this. Then you have to look at a new predatory policy, a new motorcyclist law, then you have to be more flexible in terms of laws and regulations, and you have to have a yes mentality – which I unfortunately see most people in this room don't have. For example, I can. do not understand that there is no majority for proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to develop niche and special agricultural products.’ This must be just one of the things that can help save Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2127	I believe the Minister of Agriculture in 2005, Riis-Johansen, said that any abandoned use in agriculture is a defeat. Then he has suffered quite a lot of defeat, and it continues to do today's Minister of Agriculture. I think the debate has been so far an interesting exercise in how to cover the lack of results of one's own policy with the horrors of others. So I very much agree with the representative Fleet that here one should be able to talk more about results of one's own policy, and then the opposition gets to talk about what agriculture you actually see. What are the traces of the agricultural policy that has now been seen, for which the red-greens have been responsible for for five years? So it's an industry that's continuing a process of anti-gasification. The value is empty. We just got a new SSB statistics showing that 20 pst. of the uses of habitable houses are empty. We have an industry that is heavily bureaucratic. We have an industry with quite a lack of investment, and it reflects once again a very small belief in the future – that is, an industry that does not exactly shine with optimism. Then I think you should be careful to talk about horror pictures when it comes to other people's policies. I sat and made some reflections when the representative Lundtegen was in the pulpit. Fighting gravity is pretty heavy. The first assumption if you're going to fight it is at least to accept that it's there. I almost got the impression that the farmers were going to be the least possible, and you wouldn't talk about the return on capital. But the point is that the farmer himself is quite good at taking out both productivity gains and returns on capital – of course he is, he is a rational performer. It shows all kinds of experience that he's pretty good at. The problem is that we're leading the farmer's creativity in a totally crazy direction. It goes into a blind street that nobody looks any way out of, other than significant increases in government grants, and you don't get it, even with a red-green government. We have had an agricultural industry where the death toll is soon the largest group of owners, and where the active farmer soon has a higher average age than the average retirement age in Norway. The most important success criterion is the amount of time spent in the agricultural office with a bureaucrat. It all says you need a whole new nourishment. The farmer is good, but one must actually dry to let him go, so that creativity benefits the farmer himself and helps to develop an industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2138	The Progress Party is once again promoting proposals to give the manufacturer more freedom of nutrition – away from involvement by politicians, to arrange the market and to give the farmer the freedom to produce, export and be a seafaring trader as other traders. Yeah, that makes me wonder. Who is to be given the freedom of nutrition by removing the contract work? What Norwegian farmers serve to ensure that it is not an agreement that obliges farmers? Are we going to have gardeners knocking grass on the West and in Valdres, or are we going to be producing grazing animals? It is not profitable to drive grazing animals in Valdres if it is not compensated for the disadvantage by producing where the area is more inaccessible. It is further away from the markets of Vang i Valdres versus Gran in Hadeland, and for them to produce in Valdres, they are paid more for the milk, for example. Not enough, but we have better production conditions on Hadeland and Toten than in Vang. We can harvest grass several times, and we can grow cereals, potatoes and vegetables, but also produce milk. Norway produces food on a very marginal area compared to others. Half of Sweden, and in relation to Denmark and New Zealand, we cannot compare either with regard to area or climate. Then one can think that keeping production throughout the country is not useful, we can buy what we need abroad. Most farmers are busy producing food on earth they own, food to a population that is growing. It must then be produced where possible, not only where there are production opportunities for several types of crops. When the Progress Party wants to cancel the agricultural negotiations and release the market freely, it means that there will be the large producers in the East, the Jären and possibly in Trøndelag who will be able to have a production that will carry them – well to notice far larger areas than today’s use, sail whether this will also be restrictions in relation to geography. The agricultural agreement is an agreement based on the obligations and responsibilities of both parties. The farmers undertake to keep agreed prices in the market that protect Norwegian consumers at times when the world market price is high and is equivalent to our Norwegian salary level when the world market price is low. The agricultural agreement provides for an income option and is not a pay bill. The agreement must contain budgetary resources in relation to what a person wants from political priorities when he sees that a person wants to build up under special productions, such as: that there shall be still grazing animals in the cultural landscape of Valdres. But it is also important that it contains prices that make it pay to be a capable farmer who gets the most out of soil and animals. It should not be easy to be a bad farmer. Industry can and sometimes does move production sites. It can't be agriculture. The earth is where it lies. Providing maximum maritime supply to its own population must be an objective. The poorer the opportunities for drifting on smaller avalanches in harsh climates, the more widespread the use is that does not interfere with harvesting from small farms in e.g. Valdres or the West. Agriculture policy is, as the Foreign Minister aptly said, an industry that cannot be compared with other industries in this country for a time, but also so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2159	In Uppland, there is an exciting development work in which an actual attempt is made at an overall alternative social development. It is called Valdres Nature and Culture Park. The inspiration is French, and it's the following – and I quote from a video they've come to the new farm message: ‘Waldres Natur- und Kulturpark is a built-up development region that, through long-term branding, links to natural and cultural values – and local governance – provide added value and vitality in local communities. As a result, Valdres will preserve and develop key values of a local, national and international nature for future generations.’» If we think a little bit closer, it's actually a little bit unfair to say that we only have one project, because actually we have two. Up in the Nord-Gudbrand valley they run with something called the National Park, which also has much of the same value in its development work. What characterizes both cevalescents and northern bonfires when they do this is that they try to develop from below, that they themselves say both to themselves and externally that they should try to take responsibility for their own development, not least by both thinking and acting in a holistic way. What they do then, both indirectly and directly, is that they, rightly, criticise public administration and public policy for often being a bit too sectoral and thematically divided. They are trying to invite both their own communities and the public to participate in a more comprehensive link between policies such as kindergarten, school, adult education, library, health, cultural protection, nature protection, agricultural policy, other industrial policies, etc., so that these thematic areas complement and reinforce each other more than they oppose each other, which may often be the situation today. Then it is that one necessary, if not sufficient, prerequisite to succeed in two such heroic countercurrent projects is that we need an agricultural policy that is even more countercurrent than it is today. Both the National Park and the Nature and Culture Park will fail if agriculture is not in place, including local processing, at least at the level we have today. We need the agricultural landscape in these areas, we need the agricultural culture, we need jobs, and not least we need local food production. Then the import protection must be built up and not down. Then the self-storage rate has to rise, and not down. Then, in order to quote again an input from the same Nature and Culture Park, we need to put in place an agricultural policy that “focuss on agriculture’s multifunction, while at the same time stimulating the mass employment and building up cooperation with other rural industries”, etc. This is not to ask for Right Party and Advance Party policy. This is asking for an even greener and even more redder agricultural policy than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2179	First to customs change on milk. It has produced major reactions in the EU, according to the representative, Mr Tåldal. No, it doesn't. Cork UD, the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Agriculture have had sharp reactions, as far as I know, and I have requested any reaction to this. If the market is to control the secluded and the anti-squatting is gone, will the farmer who keeps far away from the dairies get the same price as the farmer who keeps to the wall with the dairies? No, no, no, no. As the representative Uppebøen Hansen said so well, the same thing where the use is, the price is equal to the same quality. This is solidarity in practice. It was hardly the representative that he meant when he showed that the farmer was trapped in a socialist network. I would also like to remind the representative of what he said in his first post, that more structuring will provide cheaper raw materials. Yes, who gets less for being when she gets cheaper? Yeah, I guess that's just the farmer. There are no simple solutions when it comes to securing both construction, cultural landscapes, production and processing across the country, while at the same time having competitive prices for consumers. In addition, there is a chain of actors with partly conflicting interests. Here's a very difficult balance, and, as I said in my first post, I look forward to fruitful, holistic discussions with the organizations and industry to chisel out a new big message for future agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2191	Rigmor Andersen Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2194	A brief explanation of vote by the Christian People's Party. As regards proposal No: 23, we agree with the Left in intention, because the Christian People's Party is basically opposed to export subsidies. But we are uncertain about the consequences, and therefore we choose to vote against proposal No. Twenty-three from the left. Of the four proposals of the Left, the Christian People's Party is voting for proposal No. 25-digit number The rest we're going against. Proposal No. 25 is an environmental proposal and is in line with proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2201	What made me take the floor was the representative, Mr. Tåldal, who made a flaming speech about free trade and also strongly criticized our leader in the nutrition committee. Non-regulated agriculture is not new in Norway. It's actually been tried before. This was a system that was in the 1930s, where the farmers competed between themselves and were awarded the buyers. Those who were closest to the big markets had great advantages. This system ended up in a breakdown, with a lot of agricultural bankruptcy and consumers not getting the goods they needed. In this situation, the germ of the system we've had since then, with agricultural cooperation and cooperation between the industries and the authorities. There is nothing strange about ensuring your own food production. The general rule is that all countries have regulations and protection of their own food production. New Zealand is actually a very big exception. This is very evident in the WTO negotiations, where almost all countries are subject to the requirements of their own food production, among other things. Switzerland, USA, Japan, EU and Canada. Then to the representative of Bredvold. I will finish my post with what I did not get in the main post. For the Workers' Party, agriculture will continue to play an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country. The aim is to maintain a living and diverse agriculture and sustainable forestry across the country, providing attractive jobs and ensuring recruitment. So we're going to take over, all of us, I think, there's a lot of challenges ahead of us, but it's our policy that's the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2216	First, I would like to thank you for a long and interesting debate. There has been a debate that has clarified ideological divisions between the parties and a debate that has also clarified some practical divisions between the representatives and the parties. I would like to comment on some of the contributions, and the first thing I want to comment on is the contribution of the representative, Mr. Treldal, who draws a picture of the fact that the transition from the krona to the percentage of customs duties, which is now taking place in connection with this agricultural agreement, creates problems for the fishing industry. Firstly, I would like to stress that we have full freedom under the legislation we follow in international agreements to choose between a dollar and a percentage duty on dairy products. By and large, we're going to spend a dollar on all of the important agricultural products so far, because this has been the simplest administrative method. So, under contract law, we are completely free to introduce a percentage duty on dairy products, as was done in our agriculture. So I just want to stress that the frightening image that there will be reactions to the fishing industry is a thoughtful scare image. There have been zero reactions as far as I know in the area, and I want to stress that there are only unnecessary contradictions between two important district industries, unnecessary contradictions that no one has served to further cultivate. So I want to answer a little bit about the articles of the Fleet and the Gundersen. They say that we do not take responsibility for our own policies. Of course we do, and the jam has to be right too. When we know what the government was doing from 2001 to 2005, with an offer of 340 million in 2002. SEK, in 2003 of minus 75 million. SEK, in 2004 of minus 495 million. NOK 100 million in 2005 and EUR 100 million in 2005. kr – of course, it got a little better through the contract negotiations – the Right and the previous government have been the main ones to undermine income development and the possibility of competitive framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture. What we're doing today is running countercurrent policies, trying to reverse the developments that started under the previous government. Taking responsibility means that you also have to look at yourself. I'm going to be the first to stress that development has been poor, but despite all: the decline in Norwegian agriculture has been significantly reduced in recent years, compared to what has been the case in the past. We're talking about some thousand uses. Still, there are probably too many, but there were many times more under the previous government. You can't attack this government when you're sitting in a glass house at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2229	I just had to express a little surprise at the contribution from the representative of Bredvold in the Progress Party earlier today. He spoke in his speech that we now have a less labour-intensive agriculture, referred to tractors, machinery and operating buildings and idyllic small farms with ‘light in glass’. It is quite clear that we also want the "light in the glass" on small farms, and we can do that without cancelling the agricultural agreement. I have to ask: what kind of reality does the representative Bredvold live in? It's less laborious to be a farmer today, he said. It almost sounds as if the representative Bredvold doesn't think there are full-time farmers in this country! I would like to invite him to e.g. Hateland to visit full-time farmers with very high labour-intensive operations. Most have operations that alternate between different productions. All farmers are looking for income opportunities for the garden. Mixing the desire for small farms with ‘light in glass’ with the removal of import protection and agricultural agreements, as the representative of Aasland said, will be to wind up agriculture, not only small farms, but also the gardens where one is today trying to be a full-time farmer. Yeah, it's farm take-off. Much of it is because it is too irrational to operate small awnings, much because one does not want so much work for so little income, and much because there are many other options today. The generation pressure is not as high as in previous times. This does not mean that cancelling the agricultural agreement will make it better and easier to operate rationally on small fields. Without import protection, it will be even more difficult to operate, in particular based on production in a harsh climate and on a cost level of inputs that are miles away from the potential competitors in other countries. Farmers are also consumers. They also have to pay the carpenter, plumber, electrician, mechanic, etc. Thank you, there will not be much left to do side production, ham production or tourism for. It is good that the Progress Party shows its true face – shows to all the world where they want to collect the money, to spend it on other, more selective purposes. One thing to be aware of is that at the same time we will have a completely different country with regard to the industrial structure of rural areas, since many of the industries that currently have agriculture as customers depend on agriculture. And we'll get a completely different country to offer the tourists we want to come here – except to offer them outdoor tourism, maybe. There'll probably be opportunities for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2242	Torgeir Tåldal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2245	The representative, Ingrid Heggø, and the Council of State say there has been no reaction. Then I would recommend the Council of State and the representative Heggø – if they haven't been able to read the newspapers in the last few months – to maybe go to Google. There are dozens of reactions from industry — from the food industry and from the fishing industry — and from Europe. The council says he has not received any reactions. With all due respect, the decision to be taken today may have to be taken first. And then there might be some kind of reaction. The representative Lillian Hansen is very concerned that New Zealand is special. What I find a little strange is the following: When it comes to fishing, she says that it is the market that governs. What does Lillian Hansen think is the difference in the market for agriculture and, where appropriate, fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2252	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2255	The representative Gundersen from the Right wanted a greater pace in an agricultural policy direction, with more imports of food and company agriculture instead of family farming. I pointed out paradoxically that agriculture has large labour productivity growth, much larger than many other industries, while reducing real income. This paradox is well known in international economic literature. This fact can be corrected politically. This requires debate on contexts. Gundersen didn't take his glove. The most important long-term and positive thing about this year's agricultural agreement is that the government will improve the customs protection of milk in the context of the forthcoming customs proposal from the Ministry of Finance, by exploiting our WTO legal option, namely that we will move from a dollar to a percentage duty, which will provide much better import protection. This must be supported by all those concerned that agriculture should receive substantial parts of its income from market prices. This is the parallel to ensuring Norwegian pay and working conditions for employees. It's very central. I am very happy that it has come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2262	I am going to make a confession: of course, there are challenges associated with Norwegian agriculture. There are also trends that one might consider with greater concern than developments in other areas. One of them is the decrease in the number of uses, perhaps primarily related to – let's say – the decline in productive land. It's worrying, looking up to the global situation, which I initially mentioned in my first post. I think it is entirely relevant to compare these issues and compare these images. Then it's said that we're freaking out that there's going to be setbacks with the Right and the Advance Party. It is obvious that an attempt to describe what the opposition is proposing by action. That it can seem daunting even to Right-Representatives, one just gets the reason that there may be quite dangerous roads being proposed. I had a question to the Right that I have not received an answer to. I hope the representative fleet can answer that question because he has signed up again. It is: how many steps must the Right now take to stand side by side with the Progress Party and the Agricultural Policy of the Advance Party? It could have been possible to get an answer to that. To the Progress Party and the representative, Mr Tåldal: one must be more and more amazed as the debate progresses. He has, let's say, based his agricultural policy thinking around the love of New Zealand – it's pretty amazing – a country where the average herd of cows is 337, while the average in Norway is 19. It tells something about the differences, and it actually also tells something about how the Progress Party looks at district agriculture when they base such averages on their thinking and policy shaping. It's not quite in touch. The same is true of comparisons between fisheries and agriculture — two very different areas. It kind of doesn't make sense. It's quite problematic to keep an eye on a debate when it's this way you take the perspective. It is quite obvious that there is a very significant difference between what the Progress Party proposes and what lies in the matter. The unanswered questions are addressed in the agricultural message – many exciting discussions. However, the fact that the position is also marked by a clear distance from a policy that would end Norwegian agriculture — especially in the districts, about overnight — yes, it should be lacking that the spokesperson of Storting should not be used to demonstrate exactly that. In fact, with the total deregulation of Norwegian agriculture that the Progress Party actually proposes, it is a winding-up policy. So I would like answers from the Right if they would follow the Progress Party in their policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2279	Svein Fleet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2283	I have to answer the representative of Aasland. To stand side by side with politics, all parties must approach each other and change their policies. I've seen in the last five years that this exercise is going on every day in the government we have, and not without teeth. What I actually signed for was the contribution of the Minister of Agriculture. He was asked about the decline in use, and he answered with money. He answers that it was so and so many millions less during the Bondevik II government. But that's not what the Minister of Agriculture has been challenged on here today. He has been challenged by what action he himself will take. We have shown the measures quite strongly, quite often, in many budgets, in many agricultural settlements, namely to abandon some of the agricultural regulations on the property side. That's not what the Minister of Agriculture wants to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2290	I have to spend 3 minutes on Lundtegen. Because I totally agree that the farmer is good, he's shown it. There is hardly any industry that has experienced faster productivity growth than agriculture, that is quite right. But when you hold on to the property structure, the farmer has only one way to take out that productivity growth, and that's to work less on the farm. And that's what we see, there's soon no one working there -- everyone depends on other work. That's what I meant when you're going to fight gravity, it's actually about realizing that gravity is there. There is no way to do this except to increase subsidies considerably more than what we do over the state budget, and there is no political will for it – ergo agriculture has been led into a blind path. That should soon be realized by the red-greens. So a little bit to Breck, as the Fleet says, there was only money in that answer. There is something quite different we challenged Breck on. He's coming back to the Bondevik II government. Well, what happened during the Bondevik II government? It was a clear direction: you started to deregulate the industry. So you're betting on co-operation. Family use was not one-sided – as the research documents are one of the most problematic jobs in Norwegian working life. Yes, Lundtigen can laugh, but it is quite well documented that there is an isolated job, where people have quite major challenges – it should take Lundtigen otherwise rather than sitting and laughing in the hall; he would like to do so, because I think he loses. So you gave the practitioner greater freedom. What did that lead to? Well, it actually led to greater optimism, there were strong signs of increased investment, and it was investment that led to more rational agriculture, i.e. co-operation. And that's what we're actually challenging. We weren't looking for such a tipping contest about who spent the most money, because we don't see that solving the agricultural problem. And then a little bit to Aasland: we don't intend to follow the Progress Party or anyone else. We are following the Right Agricultural Policy. It is quite clear that we want a proper conversion of the industry. We realize that the industry has been led into a direction where many farmers are stuck. It has been invested in confidence that the regulations will be there, and then it is actually a political responsibility to get this kind of nourishment out of the misguided into it, in a proper way. And that reflects our agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2299	Unfortunately, I have not been able to follow this whole debate, but what I have heard from it shows how predictable agricultural debates are here in this Chamber. It is frightening to hear how little debate develops every year, especially on the part of the majority. There is no ability, will or desire to rethink within this policy area. Agriculture itself should, of course, be a school example of how not to treat an industry from a political point of view. At the same time, we experience significant double communication from the government parties, especially from the Central Party. The centre party has now been with the Minister of Agriculture for five years. They have given the impression that they were going to make record income statements. Just as fully, frustration is as great out there in the industry as when the Riis-Johansen Council took over almost five years ago. Then you have the representative Lundteg. Whoever he represents may seem somewhat unclear. I have registered that the representative Lundtigen earlier this year was out and would have a new Hitra uprising. I want to compliment the representative Lundtigen on his commitment and debate on agricultural policy in Norwegian society through such an action. But here we see that the representative Lundtigen is flying a false flag, because he is not going to take the initiative for such an uprising and such a debate in the Norwegian community. So to the agricultural agreement, whether to cancel it or not. The agricultural agreement is an extremely rigid system — it shows the negotiations every year — which means that organisations never get a say in their demands. This year, too, they have not had an impact on their demands. At the same time, you're so tied up in the system that you accept defeat year after year. It is strange that there are no more people in the industry who ask questions about the competence of the leaders who each year accept defeats in a negotiating position with the state, when one should have everything to profit from getting a pass on their claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2308	The big and difficult debate on the red-green side, including the Christian People's Party, is how idealistic and ambitious one should be, and, not least, how ambitious and idealistic it is possible to be both political and legal. This is an exciting and demanding debate, political as a professional one, and I am really looking forward to this work on the Great Britain Communication. There will be an agricultural debate, but there will also be a broad societal debate – what kind of Norway is what we want to develop in the future? With regard to the Right and Advance Party, I miss a greater degree of honesty. It is an honest thing to want to reduce the number of farmers – we need labour in other sectors, that is to say, many. It's an honest thing to want to import more food and reduce our own food production – people and countries with money often use to buy what they need to buy. It's an honest thing to want to depopulate parts of Building Norway. I am convinced that both towns and cities in Norway will be able to accept greater population growth if it does not go too fast. But I would strongly recommend, not least now in connection with the reporting process and in order to raise the quality of this debate and make it less predictable, that we are now playing with more open and honest cards about this reporting work, which, as I said, will bring the debate forward. The representative, Treldal, asked questions about the difference between fisheries and agriculture. The representative of Aasland has emphasised it so well before me here today: then one has really understood little of the production conditions of Norwegian agriculture. It's both an informative question, and it's a revealing question. And once again, I really hope that the Progress Party will be able to develop its agricultural policy somewhat, at least, during the forthcoming big-time communication work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2321	I asked for the word when Gundersen went for a frontal attack on the time and family use. Then he must feel bad about Norwegian agriculture. If we are to take care of the cultivated land in Norway, and with the topography we have in Norway, it is simply not possible to have only full-time use in Norwegian agriculture. He's also a researcher. Researchers point out that income per day work can actually be as high in part-time and family use as it is in full-time use and in co-operation, among others. because of the investment costs, which have become quite excessive. Then he refers to research and says that working on a family farm is bad. There are some of us who have grown up there, and who are good people anyway!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2330	Per Roar Bredvold has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2333	I think you're good people no matter where you've grown up, whether it's on a small farm or a big use or whether it's somewhere else. I started my article instead of saying that we could discuss this for many days. The width is so large, and it just shows this debate as well, but I don't think we've moved any further today. There's a lot that's missing. When e.g. More than half of all rapporteurs in Norway sign up to a bulwark against the policy pursued in agriculture today, something must be wrong. That must be right, as I say, agriculture today is less labour intensive than it was a few years ago. The tractors are getting bigger, the machines are getting bigger, the poultry are getting bigger and more efficient, we've got milk robots, etc. – we spend less time per unit of output. It has to be that simple. I welcome the invitation from everyone who wants me to visit, and I see that the Vice-President of the Workers' Party too will not give priority to farmers, as it said in the nation this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2346	When it comes to free trade and reaction to percentage duty, I think we're going to take the lesson that we've been learning globally over the last few years, and it's just that when it's on, each country ensures its own food production and its own population. The last thing that happened was that the exporting countries introduced export duties to ensure their food markets at a relatively reasonable price. This in turn has led to a change in international food markets. The resource is now directly secured in the form of long-term leases on land. China has concluded leases in many places in Africa on huge areas over which they take direct control. It should also be remembered by the Right and the Advance Party, and not pretend that that development is not in full swing. I believe that this is the main reason why Norwegian agriculture is pointing forward, because we are becoming more and more people not only in Norway, but throughout the world. We have a global responsibility to ensure enough food not just for our own people, but to contribute where we can. It is thus more than food and district interests. It's an international responsibility, yes, an obligation we have as a nation to exploit what is our resource base, what is our ability to contribute to this. To Gundersen: rapid growth of production without property structure and reforms — well, that's what happens. Changes have made agricultural property exchanges more flexible in terms of both size and price. It's not sure that it's going to look the same, but it's like changing the law in time and in relation. So there's no reason to make this static. Then we just have to remind ourselves that right-wing boasts violently that they made it possible for co-operation and a kind of collective operation within agriculture. I just think we all have to take on board that we have to have good framework conditions both for those who are big, and for those who are small, if we are to be able to make sure that people are betting, that people are investing, and that people are exploiting the production potential that is, that you really have that belief in this, that we depend on in the future. Then to Kielland Asmyhr and the Advance Party. That there is no new idea in agriculture, I totally disagree. Agriculture is in dynamic development. It's a tearing development that happens every year. The agricultural agreement has been a success, not least for the consumption side of Norwegian society. There is no other society that has such a stable low price development in food. It should be noted, not least, that it is in agriculture and in the aid that you are sucking. That's what's going to pay for all the other budget increases. My good question to the Progress Party, Norway's most populist party, is as follows: 80 pst. Thus, Norway’s population supports Norwegian agriculture — why is it that this is used as a chopstick when you add to absolutely all other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2359	I got a reflection that I wanted to come with from the pulpit. Not many people have so much attention about this debate here today, and perhaps not the media afterwards. But what's worth noting for the Storting, is that this is a debate that typically merges into a long historical line. And what do I mean by saying that? Well, when we hear the representatives from the right parties, and especially from the Progress Party, the Storting should be very aware that this is just a part of the consistent fight against the collective society on the right. That's the historical dimension of what's going on here now. What's worth noting in that perspective is that what's behind the posts we hear from the right-hand representatives here is that they're trying to deny the amazing result it's had for the Norwegian economy, for the Norwegian population, and in this case for Norwegian agriculture, that there's been a cooperation between industry and the state over several generations. That's what they want to break up! And it's not too hard to say that there's a historical struggle that they're doing. What they should answer to, and which they do not answer, however many times we are going to ask from this speaker, and from all the other speakers, is: Where do the representatives of the right parties think that Norwegian agriculture would have been if there had not been an interaction between the state and the industry through generations, if Norwegian agriculture was only to be subject to the market, not internationally protected – a country that is therefore so vulnerable, and which is back to the ice, in the geographical sense of the word? Where would it be? There had been no Norwegian agriculture, except in some areas, and in specialised areas. It would have been a disaster, because we all – at least when we talk nice – are talking about district policy and taking the whole country into use as a great value for the Norwegian community, and making Norway what it is. This is actually a fundamental attack on the fundamental building blocks of Norwegian society. That's why I wanted to take the floor and say this, because I think it should be said. So finally just to this that right when they're challenged as to how they put themselves to the Progress Party, they say, yes, we have to approach each other. I think that's a very scary sentence. Does that mean that the Norwegian Right is actually going to fundamentally leave this point and go in the direction of the Progress Party, because the centre of gravity must be between the Right and the Advance Party if it's about meeting in a place? There will be a major challenge for Norwegian agriculture and districts in the years to come if that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2370	The next speaker is Lars Peder Breck. He's currently the last recorded speaker. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2373	Yes, yes, we'll see, President. I must be allowed to answer a few of the recordings, from the Fleet and Gundersen. The representative of the fleet said that the Minister of Agriculture answers questions about the number of uses, but that he answers with money. The answer is in terms: there was less money and more departure in the number of uses when the Right was in government than it is now. And if I'm not completely wrong, I also said in my previous post that the take-off in the number of uses was significantly larger at the end of the Right period than it has been in the last years. And despite the fact that there was a rise in Norway at the beginning of the last government period, we have managed to reduce the take-off. Of course, we've driven countercurrent policies, that we've spent more money than the opposition has ever been willing to use – to compare. To go a little further here: when the representative Kielland Asmyhr says that it has been given the impression of a record income statement, I just want to stress that the numbers speak for themselves. Over the past five years, on average, the krona trend in agriculture has been as large or slightly larger as for comparable groups. One has to go back to the 1970s to see the same trend in agriculture. So it has actually happened a lot, even though many of us want to go even further and we see the need to get much further in terms of balancing the incomes between those who work in agriculture, and those who work outside agriculture. The crown-wise development has been good, but it should have been better. We work all the time to get to it. So to Gunnar Gundersen, who challenges co-operation and deregulation. He has a slightly special characteristic of family use. I think that research shows – and the economic context shows – that family farming, as the representative Lundtigen has also underlined, is the most robust thing we have ever had, and we are highly dependent on it in the future. At the same time, many choose to find solutions in cooperation with other actors. I think that's good. And, to put it simply, the policy we have pursued in terms of co-operation is basically a continuation of the policy pursued by the Right, except in one area: we have ensured that the same level of use has the same framework conditions. For it did not stand at the right rear, it did not stand the previous government behind. They actually distributed the large uses, while one now, through the changes that have taken place in recent years, has managed to get a level playing field for these uses. That's right, and that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2385	This has been a long debate, and it has been a challenging debate. There have been many good and dedicated posts – and there have been some strange posts. I just want to comment on a couple of little things. For tenants: There is a risk that tenants will be able to get to Norway who will start working on farms. We've had that jam for many years, and we're going to have that in the years to come. I also think in many ways we're dependent on it. Once again, the Council of State is unable to get out of the path of apology on which he is linked to the government that was. So now it's five years since the change of government when the citizens left. I think the Council of State should now begin to deal with its own period, this and the previous period, in which the Central Party has had a finger in the game, to a significant extent. What I wonder about in the debate today is that there is only one representative who has focused on what is happening to the consumer, who is paying the bill for the contract that has been concluded. The market is also referred to as something terrible. I must say that at least the people I know around are great, uphill people. The market is actually the inhabitants of this country, it's the people who are going to absorb and buy these products that have now been agreed upon. Several were involved in the problem that we also have a responsibility in Norway for a food crisis. Why, then, should we use the agricultural agreement as an instrument to keep production down – because we want to keep the price up? That's what you do in several areas – that's what you do about the milk situation, that's what you've done about eggs. We say one thing from this pulpit, and then we do something completely different when we sit in negotiations. And then you tell me how important this settlement is, and how great a lot of people ended up doing it. Why, then, did half break? Why did the Farmers and Small User Team leave it? Norway did not stop for that reason. But it is clear that it peaked when you went back to the 1930s and we were told what would happen if we actually released the farmer. Then I think we've crossed a line. If you're going back on that plane, you even hit the council, which at least only relates to the previous government, and doesn't go all the way back to the 1930s. I am pleased that the Council of State will present a new agricultural message. I look forward to a new debate. There is one thing that is at least certain, and it is that no Minister of Agriculture in this country has been sitting in the chair when there have been so few farms in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2402	I believe the conclusion to this debate is relatively simple. It is that the majority – and the centre party in particular – do not know where to go in agricultural policy. It's been very clear for many years. Therefore, you do not dare do any special grip in one direction or another. There are many here who are excited about the coming agricultural message. There was something the Progress Party initiated in the previous big time period, when we said that now we have to get a big message. Then the government took the senses and started that work. But is there anyone in this room who thinks that there will be some major changes, or price changes, in Norwegian agricultural policy through that communication? Of course not! Both in the organisations and in the governing parties, there is such an extreme conservatism in this area of policy, that nothing is going to happen. So the council says that the numbers speak for themselves, that it's chronically been like for other groups, and that you still have a way to go. This could indicate that you have not fulfilled what you have said. My question to the Council of State is: why do the organizations disagree with this? The organisations say something quite different, that they do not have a chronic equality with other groups, and it is well known that the small user team – and they should have boasted – broke the negotiations because the government has not delivered what they have promised. Then the representative Martin Kolberg was up here and held something that I would call a May 1 talk about the collective society and the right side's threat to and pursuit of the collective society. Why has the Labour Party also been with the last 20–25 years and liberalised large sections of society? Why has the legislation been included and liberalised for most other industries, but not for agriculture? Why have you been involved and contributed to sales, among others. of government property and ownership interests in the business community? I think that kind of May 1 speech is being held in such a debate because you want to explain why the situation in agriculture has become like it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2417	The President has an objective that this matter will be fully debated before we pause.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2420	Yeah, we'll see. All right, first of all, the progress game is redrawing, or at least trying to draw, an image of an industry that is very static, which is pervasive, where it happens little, and where there are big problems and challenges. I agree that these are challenges. I agree that we could have come further and should have come further on the income side, that we should have come further on the use of instruments that could have made more people invest. But the main picture is an industry that is very dynamic, which is at the front in most areas, and it is well read out of the statistics. Never have so few produced so much, and that's an impressive productivity growth that we've seen in Norwegian agriculture in the last 20 years. Then I want to come back to this with free trade. It is also attempted on a story that says that there is a violent tear between Norwegian interests on the free trade side. We cannot go both for access to fish markets and for free trade in agriculture. Well, I think it's a logical short-circuit. All countries around the world act out of self-interest. The Americans and Europe fight for free trade in the areas where they serve, and then they fight against free trade where they lose it. Then it is the sum of self-interests and joint interests that ultimately constitute the stage for what it is possible to achieve in any new WTO agreement. I think it is essential that the Progress Party also sees the dynamics of this, and that the Right also understands and recognizes the dynamics of this. It should be lacking if this hall and our own government did not defend what is Norwegian national interests in international free trade issues. It's never been ideology that's driven it forward. So it was Nesvik who was dealing with this with the consumer side – yes, I was inside the consumer side. We are the country in Europe where consumers spend the second least of their working time paying food bills. We are the country in Europe that has a price hedge against unforeseen price jumps on food, which the rest of the world was exposed to a few years ago, and which we completely avoided. Not least from the consumer side and the consumer side, I would like to claim that the Norwegian contract system has been a great success. So in the 1930s. Nesvik also said that it was going too far back in time. Well, what caused the crisis settlement in 1935? Well, there was the debt crisis in agriculture. It was a big social crisis. What do we see in Europe today while abolishing all regulations? Well, you see a big debt crisis in agriculture, you see a big social crisis in agriculture. It is such that the regulation of food production is nothing new. It has always been the case for all countries, and history shows that it makes great sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2439	It may not be so – let me say – interesting for a debate on farming, but nevertheless: When my post is attempted political stigmatisation and placed in a booth as a 1st May speech almost irrelevant, I only have that comment – I have said it once before, but I repeat it again: the representatives of the Progress Party in this Chamber will not succeed in trying to stigmatise my political function. It's not going to succeed, because I know very well that I'm very right about what they really stand for on this question. It is not the way it is tried to say that the Norwegian Labour Party, or in so far as the red-green government, does not, in a sense, make use of the market – even in relation to agriculture – absolutely! The market is being set up in a much stronger way and in a much better way than if the State had not played a role as the Progress Party will. It is quite strange that we do not hear the articles of the Progress Party held in food assemblies on the agricultural side. We never hear anyone say there that the state should not have a negotiating opportunity and could go in. I never hear anyone say that. But right representatives here are going to stigmatize it and say that this is some kind of market hostility. No, it's not. It's just another expression of the sensible cooperation line that we stand for, and that has been given many good ones in May, and that has helped build this collective system, and that of course is part of the political basis of the government coalition that we now have. There is a major difference in Norwegian policy, and it is part of this debate to bring it forward when the Progress Party now appears as they do in this matter, and has the proposals that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2444	The background to my taking the floor was the intervention of the representative Ola Borten Moes, where he tried to show how a free trade agreement came into place. The problem is that the position you take affects the result at the other end. It is clear that if Norway is eager, for example: in the WTO through the next Doha Round, with all possible focus on protecting Norwegian agriculture against imports from outside, it will, of course, affect how other countries will view Norway’s position related to fish. It's a context, and we actually have to take that over. An attempt is being made to create the impression that Norwegian agricultural products are so cheap. Then it is very special that we still set new records for action in Sweden. Sweden is a country where they have a milk price of approx. $7 a liter, I'd like a little bit below. In Norway, we have a milk price of over 13 kroner. It will also increase now, as a result. Furthermore, we are actually using Norwegian consumers' money in this agreement, as well as in previous agreements, by keeping the milk price up, in order to subsidise even exports to the rest of the world – through cheese production. The representative of Kolberg was also concerned that the views of the representative of Kolberg should not be stigmatised. No, we're not going to do that either. But if there are any people who have tried to stigmatise a political party – yes, even mentioned the party as if it had its own code to break – it is actually the representative of Kolberg. It will be exciting to see what comes out of the new message. Yes, it's going to be very exciting, because the worst thing that can happen in agriculture is that we go on in the same gallium that we've done up to today, because then we can't get anywhere. Then I think that sooner or later it's just agriculture that becomes the big loser, and no one's earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2459	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2462	It was actually Martin Kolberg's first post that made me want to take the floor, but with regard to his second post, I might recommend that you read a little about both the market and agriculture before going hard into the debate. With regard to the first post, it might be a good idea to read the comments before entering the debate, because the Progress Party is outside, but when the Committee, including the Right, refers to the agricultural settlement, the farmer is referred to as self-employed. Then you can't talk about the Right talking about any interaction going to end. So it would have been a great advantage to read those notes. Besides, it's strange that you're amazed that you're being politicized and stigmatized a little when you're talking about collectivism. I think most Norwegian farmers are very proud to be self-employed. Collective farming we knew from Soviet times, and then at least you shouldn't be against co-operation if you're talking about collectivism.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2471	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr said there had been a long debate. He has an ability to make the debate longer with exciting recordings, which must be commented on by some of us. He calls for innovation and a new grip on agricultural policy from the current government and calls for it, in particular, from the Central Party. I'm sorry, but it's so new doesn't have to be the same as the Progress Party's policy – fortunately. There are also other things that can be news in agricultural policy. We have seen a series of agricultural settlements, with results that no other government, in today's political situation, could have presented – a shift in agricultural policy compared to the past. We have received a climate report, and Norway is, as far as I understand, the first country to put agriculture into the climate debate, in a perspective where agriculture is not just a problem, but an important part of the solution in the climate debate. We have gained an international focus, where Norway plays an important role in international negotiations to safeguard not only the interests of Norway but also the interests of other small countries in agriculture. We have started working on a big message to review the Norwegian agricultural policy. I'm proud of a government that's not just talking about small oysters, but talking about that we have to produce a lot of food. We need to produce more food, because we are facing a situation in the world with increasing population, climatic conditions and water challenges that will make it necessary and a major challenge to increase that food production in the future. So the representative of Kielland Asmyhr is accusing the Centre of ‘double communication’ because we have great ambitions on behalf of Norwegian agriculture. When it comes to 'double communication', the representative Kielland Asmyhr comes from a party that knows what you're talking about. I know the situation of my own home country, Nord-Trøndelag, where the party in the election campaign has done what they have been able to do to get votes in the countryside, get votes from agriculture, while they have done what they have been able to do to avoid getting focus on their own policy, which is to halve the transfers to agriculture overnight in the budget by budget, and which they have tried to talk away when it has been mentioned in debates. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr would like to accuse us and try to make it a problem that we have high ambitions on behalf of agriculture. He would like to talk about 'double communication'. He will be clearly informed at the end of the debate today. It is not that we are going to reduce our ambitions for agriculture in the future!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2484	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2487	It was the representative of Gundersen who made me take the floor when he referred to the fact that you should read the setting. I would also encourage the representative Gundersen to do that, because the right writes in his comments that the right « now considers that structural changes in agriculture must go hand in hand with a gradual reduction in the level of agricultural and agricultural transfers.» I've asked the right twice what they mean by that. They have refused to answer all the time. This means that that sentence is initially an approximation to the Progress Party, which is total deregulation. Finally, I just want to use the short comment to say that the market is an excellent waiter, but a miserable gentleman. Unfortunately, the Progress Party has an objective that the market should continue to be a master. The market must be regulated in order to function. The financial crisis is a good example of this – agricultural policy is another.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2500	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2503	I fully agree with the chairman of the committee that there should be regulatory activity in a market. This has also been the wish of the Progress Party. The question is only at what level regulation should be applied, and whether the trader himself should be able to direct a little more of his activity than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2508	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8. The meeting is now suspended. [[See pages 4210 and 4211]] New meeting will be restored at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox Let's start with case number. 9, and the first speaker at the evening meeting is Torgeir Tjäldal. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2544	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2551	Negotiations on the clean-up operation agreement 2010/2011 were initiated on 16 December 2009. At the final negotiating meeting held on 18 February 2010, the Parties reached an agreement on a new agreement applicable for the period from 1 July 2010 to 30. ==References== The framework for the clean-up operation agreement 2010/2011 is 101 million. kr. This is equivalent to the appropriations for the current agreement after the budget adopted for 2010. Key challenges and tasks: Ensuring, developing and strengthening the reindeer industry poses challenging challenges for both industry and government. In this work, common understanding of reality and interaction between the different actors is a crucial prerequisite. There is still a challenge in the relationship between gravitational pressures and resource base in parts of Finnmark. In addition, in recent years increased conflicts between reindeer management and other interests in this group have been recorded. It's between the opposition and the government parties, among other things. where the opposition requests the government to submit its own notification of the recovery of reindeer during 2010, which is rejected. It is also a dissertation whether the reindeer meat is to be protected by customs protection. The government refers to the Soria Moria declaration to ensure Norwegian producers a strong import protection. I'm assuming that the respective parties go into what they mean, so from now on I'm going to review the Progress Party's vision. The reindeer owners have been able to document the damage caused by predatory game on approx. 1 300 pure, but got compensation for about 20 000, and this is an increase of approx. 50 pst. from last year. Of these, about half are documented globular lesions. An estimated 80,000 animals have been lost for various reasons during the last year of reindeer management. Of these, the reindeer owners have applied for compensation for approx. 65000 animals. This means that it disappears 219 clean every day, and that gapa takes about 100 clean every day. If this is not enough, Norwegian taxpayers also have to pay carnivores in the hundreds of thousands of krona class to Swedish reindeers. I asked my colleagues at the Nordic Council if they were willing to pay compensation to Norwegian co-workers on Swedish soil. The answer was that they were not naive, and that they did not have access to the Norwegian oil billions. Where is this going to end? If you go into the numbers of claims for compensation, we see that only three reindeer in Finnmark got replaced the animals they think are killed by the peace of the predator. Nevertheless, only 50 of the 392 others complained to the decision. Many who have been denied their claim for compensation have reported having more calves than Simler. They have received the following justification from the county for the rejections: Calve access on the holding is an important starting point for the County State’s measurement of compensation for the likely loss of calves, cf. Section 8 of the Claims Regulation. The counties find it difficult to understand how the number of calves born may be higher than the number of swimmers in the flock. I can take a couple of random examples: a reindeer has applied for compensation for 682 animals, and has been replaced by 35. Another has applied for compensation for 646 animals, and has been replaced by 18. None of these have complained about the decision. The question we can ask the Council of State is, How likely is it that this represents the loss of the reindeer themselves? What other industry could do this without being examined? I am disappointed and not least surprised that the other parties reject this, all the time also the reindeer industry itself wants a review welcome. In addition, the county also wanted a new regulation on the compensation scheme. When reporting loss rates constituting one third of the reindeer population in Norway and requiring more than 39 million. NOK in compensation, I believe that this is the basis for seeing whether this is correct. At the same time, we also see that the loss figures rejected by the county council are not being charged. I think it seems something special. We need to put in place effective and fair control mechanisms. Such a proposal should be to earmark reindeer electronically in the same way as sheep. Each reindeer must have a separate number. Only in this way can we control the number and follow them in the food chain. We have to start a large-scale slaughter of tamrein, especially on the west side, so that the number of tamreins can come down on such a number that we can have a sustainable diet. Instead of sustainably developing the reindeer industry in Finland, Stortinget and today’s government choose not to do anything. The government should give priority to providing the grazing resource base, but instead the current government chooses a policy that does not respect sustainability. On the contrary, one chooses to adhere to Sami rights and requirements and ignores the principle of sustainability. This is a bear service to the reindeer industry in general, but also devastating for all other food establishments. The situation in Finnmark is such that an industry that receives more than 100 million annually. kr in State subsidies and have been granted exclusive rights, while excluding any other development and establishment of business which has the right to life. When is the government going to take responsibility for its failed policy? Then I will promote the proposals of the Progress Party, both where we are alone, and those we are with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2589	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2592	I thank the case rapporteur for a clean job, even though I wish he had written more comments to which the majority of the committee could have joined. Well, joke to side. At least there will be clear lines of reindeer policy, and that can be useful. I notice that this year's redundancy agreement has the same financial framework as last year's, and I have also registered that the manager of the NRL stated that the agreement has a framework that is adapted to the need to household with budget resources. I think that is a constructive approach. The Progress Party will also vote against the agreement this year. It's not surprising, it's the same attitude to the matter as last year. It must be said that it is entirely in line with the rapporteur's position on free slip, and that it is up to everyone, on their own assumptions, to maintain their own resolve – without agreements, without customs protection, almost to be expected. But I notice that the case rapporteur does not repeat his statement that farmers who get clean on the inside must be equipped with firearms. That is positive, I think, and a contribution to keeping the debate at a factual level. But I think the Progress Party represents a sad attitude towards the reindeer. Purification is perhaps a small industry on a national scale — it must be admitted — but especially in Sami communities in Finnland, and in other parts of the country, it is of great importance both in economic, employment and cultural terms. It is an important part of the Sami culture, and in this area we also have obligations under international law in relation to the Sami people. The industry deserves positive attention, and we need to focus on measures that can help the industry to develop in a good way and secure for the future, and not just black paints. Well, it's taken too long to put in place a new organization of reindeer operations in some places and establish a number of animals that are adapted to the grazing grounds. It's too short in some areas. I assume that it's taken care of. But there are also areas that work well, it must not be underestimated. There are positive signals when the slaughter weight is twice as high in parts of East Finland as in the west. The Workers' Party is also impatient and seems to have taken a long time to implement the new reindeer management law. It seems like this is extremely demanding, and it is. It's a cumbersome work. Many have to be involved, and it is different how fast it is possible to achieve these processes. Administrative guidance and action skills are required and the quality of this work is likely to vary. But there can be no doubt that the internal organisation of reindeer operations is going to take place, as required by law. In its comments, the majority have commented on very important work being done in both the North and the North and the South, which is crucial to tackling the predatory game problems and to raising the south-samian culture. It's dramatic, but it's important to stress that many have engaged in this work in these areas. There is a sacrificing and wholehearted effort. That is something that needs to be built on, and that is something that other districts can learn from. Don't blow it in your nose. Purity is in a unique situation, with high demand and good market prospects. There are great opportunities for increased value creation, but it requires good cooperation across the whole value chain. Finally, I would like to stress that further work needs to be done to achieve the objectives of economic, ecological and culturally sustainable reindeer management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2611	From the right, we don't want to spend a lot of time dealing with the economic part of the reindeer notification. The agreement is far from right, and we support it as it stands. But we're going to spend a little bit of time on what we see as perhaps the biggest problems of reindeer in the future. Purification shall be governed by the principles of economic, ecological and cultural sustainability, as set out in the Act on Purification. This is not a simple target formulation for a small industry, and in many ways the industry is pushed both from the outside and from the inside. As explained in the reindeer management agreement, large parts of the industry are struggling to become economically sustainable. There are many full-time employees, and there are many part-time employees, who are going to saturation, and this makes the industry's economy unwieldy, but in most areas it's not satisfactory. Purification, like many other industries, needs economic and organisational muscles to cope with change. The world is spinning fast, and adjustments are always necessary to deal with new conditions. These muscles are the industry at the moment. not in possession of. The problem of predators is central to the economy of the industry. The suspension states that the current compensation scheme relies largely on claims for proof of loss. This is completely wrong. There is a small amount of loss documented. On the other hand, the current compensation scheme is based very much on discretion. Organicly sustainable, it cannot be said that the industry is close to being. Entries in the media and government reports often show pictures of nutritionists in crisis. An industry that should have the opportunity to tell the most amazing stories about ecological sustainability, struggling with stories about degraded areas, starving clean, legal and illegally installed reindeer, fences that have collapsed and left behind for old fences. The last descriptions are probably not in general the truth about the industry, but unfortunately an impression that too much, too often gets settled. Conflicts between municipalities and reindeer pastures are also frequent in the media. I record from the comments in the settings that the position is satisfied that the Ministry of Local Affairs is working on the problems described by the municipality of Alta. The cleaning operation sets up partitions without notifying anyone. For almost six months, one has tried to get the cleanness of the reindeer's operation to deal with the planning and building law or not. It's obvious to me that these are issues that the department has to take seriously, and I see no reason to be satisfied with the state of things. That in six months you are not able to say who is covered by the Planning and Building Act is simply a scandal. This builds up the image of an administration and an industry in spite of the environment. Political leadership in the department is here helping to reinforce the problems rather than solve them. Cultural sustainability means that the Sami should characterise the industry. This can often be a double edged sword. An industry dependent on structural measures to meet the economic requirements imposed cannot at the same time be placed in the past under the responsibility of cultural sustainability. The unbridled conditions in terms of the number of pure and the number of owners are examples of cultural sustainability being able to force the industry to kneel. I am well aware that there are also examples of reindeer operators who are doing very well. There are many practitioners and many districts producing large quantities of first-class reindeer meat. Their mode of operation is sustainable both in terms of economics and ecology and in terms of maintaining the Sami culture. The image is therefore not completely black. At the same time, it is important to point out that the business activities of these practitioners also suffer when everyday life is marked by conflict and negative publicity. It is on this basis Right together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party promote proposals for their own big business message on the reindeer. The position is pleased that this should be addressed in a notified agricultural message. That, in our opinion, is not enough. Water management is such an important industry for Norway that it does not deserve to drown in an agricultural message. Our reason for adjusting the periodization of the agreement to follow the calendar year follows the same schedule as in the previous case, on the agricultural settlement, and I do not explain that more specifically now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2637	SV is busy with the reindeer industry being resilient both culturally, economically and ecologically. The clean-up policy in Norway is based on two pillars. He has a business-political production perspective, and he has a common political perspective. We have a special responsibility in Norway for the ability of the Sami culture to live and develop, and the reindeer industry is at the heart of this culture. In order for the reindeer industry to be resilient in Sami culture, it is important that it be perceived and managed as an industry of economic value creation. An industry that does not focus on economic value creation often becomes an exhibition window and not a real basis for a normal development of culture and industry. Therefore, it is important that the reindeer industry has stable and long-term framework conditions in line with other parts of the agricultural industry. The clean-up and clean-up agreements are the key elements in the management of the reindeer operations. The sewerage industry is an important and traditional industry, and it requires a lot of land. Therefore, land conflicts can easily arise in the relationship between the reindeer industry and other industries. In parts of Finnmark there is still a large grazing pressure in relation to the resource base. It is important to comply with the reindeer management laws of 2007 and to put in place a good management regime that can reduce the level of conflict around land use. So the biggest challenge in the long-term reindeer industry is access to land. Good cooperation between municipalities and between municipalities and regional authorities is important. This allows a few more holistic management and can provide the basis for a smaller level of conflict. In some areas, the industry is experiencing a failure in profitability. Therefore, it is important to focus on measures that can ensure resource and economic viability in the industry. The clean-up agreement therefore emphasises measures that stimulate increased slaughtering and added value, and that is what is needed in order for us to have a healthy, viable industry. An economically viable industry can also be a better cultural bearer in the important perspective. The current farm notification will also cover the reindeer industry. It will give us an opportunity for a more thorough discussion of the challenges the industry is facing, and we are looking forward to it being given a central place in the alert message. It is important to ensure and develop the reindeer industry, which is a unique industry in an international context. It is, as many people have said, not the very big industry in relation to other industries in Norway, but Norway has a very unique responsibility to take care of this industry, which has a unique international character, and which also means a lot to the rights of our society and our culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2656	Purgatory as an industry, culture and way of life is unique and deserves positive attention. It is therefore important that the measures of the reindeer management policy are organised in such a way as to ensure, develop and strengthen the industry. In this context, the centre party refers to the objectives set by the Storting that reindeer management should be sustainable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. Ensuring, developing and strengthening the reindeer industry presents challenging challenges both for industry and for administrations. In this work, common understanding of reality and interaction between the different actors is a crucial prerequisite. The new agreement strengthens the measures aimed at making production more optimal and improving the alignment of the purity with the resource base. One important measure is a substantial increase in the premium for the slaughter of reindeer calves. The market situation for re-meat has become difficult during the last year. The Agreement therefore places great emphasis on measures that can help to improve the implementation of the slaughter through the season and to increase sales. We believe this in the Centre Party is important in order to facilitate the further development of the reindeer industry. After long and thorough consideration, the new reindeer management law laid the primary responsibility for the internal organisation of reindeer management on the reindeer owners themselves, which would lead to accountability and internal justice in terms of top reindeer and sustainable operation. The central party is concerned that as of 1 April 2010, there will still be 17 pst. of the districts which have not provided rules of use for approval. There is also a wide variation in the quality of the rules of use provided. The centre party would therefore stress the importance of the close follow-up by the government of the districts which have not yet provided rules of use, as well as the districts which have supplied but where the quality of the rules of use is not satisfactory. Carnivores are another area of major importance for the reindeer industry. Today, the problem of predators is so extensive that in some areas it is irresponsible for the industry. Although many measures have been taken, more needs to be done. A central measure will be to reduce the populations to the established stock targets. In order to reduce the level of conflict between reindeer and predatory game, rapid follow-up to the proposals of the working group led by the county council of the North Trøndelag will also be essential. It is also very important that predatory policies are reviewed in accordance with Soria Moria II, as the government parties have underlined in the comments on this matter. The challenges of sanitation are numerous and complex, and in parts of Finnmark there is still a lack of convergence between grazing pressure and resource base. Furthermore, an overall committee suggests that there is a conflict of interpretation of the law, so that many people experience pure pastures on areas to be protected from reindeer pastures. In addition, there are uncertainties about the interpretation of reindeer management laws versus planning and building laws in relation to reindeer management. This is mentioned in the comments on the matter. It is important that the government continues to work on this, and we believe that it is of central importance to clarify such matters as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2682	Purgatory policy is a balance between three areas: animal health, nutrient basis and ecological sustainability. There are challenges to reindeer management in all these three areas. The Christian People's Party believes that reindeer management can make good use of resources in marginal mountain and outlying areas and is a central bearer of Sami culture. The Christian People's Party believes that the measures of reindeer management policy must be designed in such a way that the industry becomes sustainable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. We have registered that the parties have reached agreement on a new agreement for the coming period with a framework of 101 million. kr. This is equivalent to the appropriations for the current agreement after the budget adopted for 2010. We have noticed that there is a conflict with the interpretations of the law, so that many people experience pure pastures on areas that are to be peaced for reindeer grazing. In addition, there are uncertainties in the interpretation of the reindeer management law versus the planning and building law in relation to reindeer management. This is worrying. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about internal conflicts in the industry. The industry itself has long warned that something needs to be done, and young entrepreneurs do not see a future for the industry if the measures do not work. It is almost 20 years since the Stortinget dealt with its own deposit notice on reindeer operation, St.meld. No 28 for 1991-1992. The Christian People's Party believes that a new reindeer management message needs to be prepared in the light of the major changes that have occurred in the reindeer operation during this period. This applies at the ecological level to land use interventions, land loss, predatory losses and climate change, at the legal level, with an increased focus on customary law, new reindeer law and new reindeer grazing convention, and at the economic level to convert grant and replacement schemes. In addition, the reindeer industry, particularly in Finnland, has challenges related to production variations, low slaughter weights, very high reported predatory losses and low productivity. We therefore need a comprehensive review of the industry and therefore promote proposals together with the Right and the Advance Party for their own big message. In the spring of 2007, a new redeployment law was passed in Stortinget. The law was the result of a long and thorough process, and the new rules are an innovation both for reindeer management and for society. The new reindeer management law provides for internal self-government in reindeer management in a completely different way than in the past, while allowing the authorities to discharge their overall responsibility for the sustainability of reindeer management. Purity districts have an important role to play in the follow-up of new reindeer management laws and are required to develop use rules for resource management. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned that as of 1 April 2010, there are still 17 pst. of the districts which have not provided rules of use for approval and indicate that there is also a wide variation in the quality of the rules of use provided. We therefore assume that the government has a close follow-up to the districts that have not yet provided rules of use and the districts that have supplied but where the quality of the rules of use is not satisfactory. New instruments were also put in place to reduce excessive cleanness. We need those tools now. The situation of the low pastures on Finnmarksvidda is far from good enough. The agreement provides for a stronger incentive for all reindeers in West Finland to reduce and adapt the reindeer by replacing the previous calf-slaughter premium and early-slaughter premium schemes with a new premium where reindeer owners have to comply with a fixed slaughter requirement. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the efforts to reduce the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark take a long time and are concerned that this important work will be followed up to ensure that clean-up operations are as sustainable as possible. This is particularly important for animal welfare purposes, but also in order to ensure that reindeer management is carried out within a sound ecological and economic framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2701	Reindeer management makes Norway richer. In many ways, clean-up activities such as industry, culture and life-style are unique in both national and international contexts. It therefore deserves positive attention and focus on measures that can help to ensure, develop and strengthen the industry. Ensuring, developing and strengthening the reindeer industry presents challenging challenges both for industry and for administrations. In this work, common understanding of reality and interaction between the different actors is a crucial prerequisite. I am very pleased that we also reached a good reindeer management agreement this year. In my opinion, the new agreement helps to take some new, important steps towards more sustainable clean-up, where the practitioners themselves take greater responsibility for the development of their own industry and market production. The agreement involves a total of 101 million economic measures in the reindeer industry. kr. It is a similar appropriation as for the current agreement. The new agreement strengthens the measures aimed at making production more optimal and improving the alignment of the purity with the resource base. One important measure is a substantial increase in the premium for the slaughter of reindeer calves. Furthermore, in order to contribute targetedly to gender equality in reindeer management, the parties agree on a clear increase in the spouse benefit. The market situation for re-meat has become difficult during the last year. The Agreement therefore places great emphasis on measures that can help to improve the implementation of the slaughter through the season and to increase sales. Overall, the reindeer management agreement now negotiated confirms the rotation that has taken place in recent years, with a stronger focus on the business environment and the organisation of reindeer operators with a main activity. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committees are in line with the reindeer agreement's profile, so that the agreement can continue to be used as an active tool for stimulating increased slaughter and productivity. Purification is to be maintained as an important basis for Sami culture and social life, and the challenges in this context are many and complex. I'll mention some of these. Per today, as multiple denominators, there are about 15 pst. of the reindeer areas which have not yet provided for the rules of use. If the districts are not willing to or are unable, within specified time limits, to draw up rules of use, the district council shall do so. It is a comprehensive process that is now under way both in reindeer management and management. I am happy to announce that the first rules of use were confirmed by the Rein driftsstyrelsen last week. The other rules of use submitted are assumed to be dealt with by the governing bodies during 2010. In the media, there has been a lot of attention on the conflict of pure within the area of peace in Alta. I have followed developments in the area closely. Through both the reindeer management agreement and the agricultural agreement, we have facilitated the continuation of the conflict prevention system. This scheme allows landowners and reindeer holders to jointly fund land fencing and grants for increased guessing. In this context, I welcome the initiative taken by the Rein drifting of the Norwegian Reinbrussamers Landsförbund and have contacted the Norwegian Landsförbund to facilitate a better dialogue between the active nutritionists in the area. At present, predatory pressures in some areas are so high that reindeer operations are irresponsible both for economic and animal ethical reasons. This applies not least to the reindeer areas in the south. Although many measures have been taken, more needs to be done. A central measure will be to reduce the population to the established stock targets. In order to reduce the level of conflict between reindeer and predatory game, rapid follow-up to the proposals of the working group led by the county council of the North Trøndelag will also be essential. Although the reindeer numbers in some districts of Finnmark are not sustainable, I would like to stress that the one-sided image that is still being drawn by emaciated reindeer and large animal tragedy due to bad pasturage is not correct. In my view, there has been a lot of positive progress in reindeer operations in recent years. The overall transformation of the reindeer policy instruments has brought progress in the right direction. In addition, a change of attitude is recorded, particularly among younger reindeer workers. Instead of large reindeer flocks, attention is now focused on production and earnings. This is positive. Authorised usage rules will form the foundation of resource management in the future and will be a prerequisite for the application of a number of legal provisions. For this reason, I will continue to give priority and great attention to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2726	The members of the Committee refer to Mr Kåre Simensen, representing the Labour Party, who, during an interview on 11 March 2010, stated: ‘I believe this debate on the reindeer numbers in Finnmark is very important, because there is also an agreed consensus that the reindeer numbers in parts of the county are too high. Under the new reindeer management law of 2007, the reindeer is to be set in such a way that it is sustainable both ecologically, economically and culturally. We're not there today, and we have a long way to go." We also see that the county wants a review, and the industry itself wants a review. And the countyman as the state's husband, and the councilman, who's going to do this, thinks there's a lot of things missing, and that should be done. My question to the Council of State is: When you are in a comment where you are critical, why are you not critical of the setting? Why is the comment not in the style of the rest of the option?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2738	I think it is wrong for me to comment on why some representatives do not follow the majority or possibly the minority in a position. It is up to the individual representatives to do so. With regard to the issue of purity, I would like to stress that in some areas there is a good balance between sustainable purity and the resource base, in other areas, especially in the west, there is too high purity. Follow-up to the new legislation, the new legislation, by establishing rules of use, is the responsibility of the joint and reindeer operators. As I said, we've come a little bit on our way. It's left at approx. 15 pst. of the undelivered districts. I assume, as I said at the outset in my post, that the reindeer management, the district managers, are now taking care of it, so that we can put in place rules of use, and thus also get work on sustainable reindeer management in all areas of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2747	In the post the council said that he had followed the situation in Alta quite carefully. And we know that the councils have engaged themselves in the problem of clean grazing on land that is not to be pasture, and clean that takes on the property of another man. Now, in today's Altapost, we can read again about conflicts between reindeers and residents in West Finland, that it comes in where you think it shouldn't be clean. And the answers are exactly the same compared to the fact that it's problematic to figure out who owns the reindeer and to get someone notified. Is the Council satisfied with the situation in West Finland after he has engaged and followed the matter carefully for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2756	It is true that I have been involved and have had several meetings in Alta to try to help the various actors in Alta – the municipality, county, reindeer and farmers – sit down together and try to find solutions to the challenges that exist. Because there are difficult and serious challenges for the community, for the reindeer and for the agricultural industry. And I'm not satisfied with -- let me just stress it -- that when I came back early in the spring, I saw that there was a breach of the conservation regulations because it was pure in the Gargia area. I saw it myself. I've re-emphasized it to those who represent the practitioners. I have underlined it to the administration, and I expect, of course, that it will be followed up and taken care of. It is totally unacceptable that you cannot follow what is Norwegian law and regulation, and it is an ambition for me to contribute, both through the work I do in the ministry, and through the work done by the administration, that we avoid such things in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2765	It may seem that the number of dead puree due to predators is very high. In 2009, it was budgeted for nearly 40 million. kr in claims. Does the council also see that the number of clean taken from predators is a little high? What can the Council of State contribute to reducing the loss and to a different way of documenting the losses?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2772	It is relevant for reindeer management to ask questions about compensation schemes, also because there is a serious predatory pressure in reindeer management. At the same time, I must point out that it has nothing to do with the reindeer management agreement. It is a responsibility managed by the Ministry of the Environment, and I have to leave it to the Ministry of the Environment to answer questions that address in detail those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2777	There are reports of losses of 80000 pure each year, and 65000 are taken by predators. That's the same thing as it disappears 219 animals a day. So one also says that gloapa should have been involved in taking half of them. After the numbers that we're sitting with, it's going to be approximately. 70 bars in the area. That's the same thing as every rag takes two cleans a day. Even though this, as the Council of State says, is under another Council of State, I would like a response from the Minister here and now what he means. Does the Council of State consider these figures to be realistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2784	When an application is made for compensation based on a certain level of pure numbers, I have no reason to question it, because unfortunately I have not been involved in the treatment of it. What I'm concerned about is that predators are a big problem for reindeer, and one has to take this challenge more seriously, one has to make sure to bring down the populations of predators. We see, especially in southern Sami areas, that it has been problematic to operate sustainably after we have had a build-up of predators. With regard to the question of compensation, another department has to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2791	Then we get to hope that the Council of State can, or will, answer the following questions – it's about the individualisation of pure. The progress party will have it, both because we can then trace much better by the loss of pure, and also in terms of food security and animal welfare. But it seems that the Progress Party is alone with that desire. But can the Council of State be involved in the desire for better labelling of pure, individual labelling of pure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2798	The labelling methods to be used for the labelling of tamrein are currently regulated by the Act on Repurchase Operation, Chapter 5. The traditional earpiece reindeer marking means the labelling of pure with the individual and registered marks of the owners. All pure in Sami reindeer areas must be marked with such earpieces and all reindeer marks must be approved by the authorities before they are put into service. The marks shall also comply with the requirements of the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act. The clean-up management uses significant resources on officially controlled clean-up counts and the clean-up counting is carried out under the regulation on the official control of the count of pure established in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on 22 June 2009. The result of the re-counting and the organisation of the re-counting carried out is, in the view of the department, such that a high degree of accuracy is achieved for the flocks counted. So the answer is that we have a good order today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2803	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2809	‘It is not possible to resolve what is going to happen.’ There are good Olav Duun quotations for every occasion, and this statement reminded me in connection with the debate on the grubbing-up agreement. The proposal refers to the predatory situation and its consequences for the reindeer industry. But I wonder – does Stortinget really know how precarious the predatory situation is for the southern examinations in Norway? If the Storting knows that, do you accept the evolution you see? And if you don't accept the evolution you see, why don't you put in more action faster? I'm particularly concerned with the situation of the southern semen, because they're extremely vulnerable. They're a special small group of numbers. Maybe we can talk about a minority in the minority. Norway has committed itself, through the ILO Convention on the Rights of Native Peoples, to inter alia: the symmetries maintain and develop their peculiarity on a permanent basis. In my view, it is questionable whether Norway is complying with that convention today. The way of life, culture and language of the southern generations is inextricably linked to reindeer activities as an industry — life in nature. Inner Namdal, my home area, has been a guinea pig for more than 15 years, a laboratory in which the Norwegian authorities have tested a predatory game policy without anchoring in the community. This testing has had a major impact on the population and the business community in the region, and for the southern samples the consequences have been particularly significant. Calve loss up to 70 pst is reported. But it's not just problems with killing. The entrance of the reindeer game has disrupted the reindeer flock’s cycle – with migration between different locations in different parts of the season – with all the problems it brings. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee's comments say that they look forward to speeding up action. I believe, however, that we do not get beyond the very core of the problem – the predatory wildlife populations themselves. In my view, we need to start work as soon as possible to reduce the stocks that are now larger than the agreed stock targets to the agreed targets. And I expect the government to speed up the determination of the new stock targets, as mentioned in the Soria Moria statement. The life-set and culture of the southern families can only be preserved by active reindeer farming. The question is whether Stortinget is willing to take the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2832	Now we're seeing double communications from the Center Party, which they're incredibly good at. It's not long since we had a bill to do something about the numbers of predators. Unfortunately, it was voted down – by the Center Party, by the Red-Green Government – and it is also in conflict with Soria Moria. So it's nothing new that what you do is in conflict with Soria Moria and against what you stand for. It's really the way predators have never had it better than under the Center Party in government. I dare say that State Council Breck is actually almost the father of the predators. He takes care of them in every way possible. So maybe it's time for you to set touring by industry, and end up with double communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2837	The President would just like to point out that all speech should be addressed to the President. I guess the government might blame too much, but that councillor Breck is the father of the predators, is probably to draw it a little far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2842	It's kind of nice on the day you debut in Stortinget, to discuss double communication with the Progress Party every time you get the floor. I expect fixed meeting representatives to understand basic political logic and know the rules of politics, and know what happens when people cooperate in government, and not. I expect you also to know that the Senterpartiet voted against the Robbery Agreement when it was concluded in 2004. Although I am not satisfied with the predatory game policy that is taking place in Norway today, I see with quite clear eyes important differences in the policy of today's government, and the one that has been run by previous governments. So just one thing that we've gotten into Soria Moria II, that we're actually going to have a new assessment of stock targets, is a milestone in the year-round work on dealing with predatory policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2851	I wonder when you boast that you've got something into Soria Moria. Then it's the paper you're after. That's the ink you write with, the color on the ink, you're interested in. Because when you come into this room and you can make a change with a law, you vote against it. So here you're going to have to put the tea by food, and then you're going to have to start to be realistic. And then I think it's okay that maybe the voters get to know what kind of double communication and the double moral center party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2856	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4213]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2872	The Maritime Directorate moved out of Oslo to Haugesund in 2006. This led to the loss of very many competent staff. Almost 84 pst. by the staff of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs closed during the transfer of the Directorate. In such a situation, it is essential that an ability to ensure that such loss of competence does not have an impact on the quality of the proceedings. The Ministry has stressed that many new employees in the Maritime Directorate work with good expertise. However, the National Audit Office’s audit revealed a number of weaknesses in its revision of the Maritime Directorate’s document control of ships and seafarers. The findings were so serious that the Riksrevision stopped working on a full administrative audit and reported on the findings we are dealing with today in Stortinget, in order to ensure that improvement could be made rapidly. It is an assessment agreed by the Committee. The study shows that legislation in some areas is unclear. Despite this, the Maritime Directorate has failed to incorporate procedures to ensure the highest possible level of regulatory practice. There are limited written procedural procedures and procedures to correct procedural errors are missing. The Directorate has a small overview of the number of cases and lacks an overview of the length of proceedings. Furthermore, it has been revealed that pending decisions are deliberately withdrawn from the public records to give the company the decision on which they are based, time to turn around. This is a form of administrative practice which, of course, is not acceptable in 2010 and which the Committee considers to be a serious breach of good governance. Furthermore, there is reason to stress the importance of good administrative and documentation procedures for maritime safety. The Committee considers that good practice practices are important in order to ensure maritime safety. Without speaking on behalf of the entire committee, I allow myself to point out that I think Minister of Industry Trond Giske underestimates the potential damage in the breach of good administration and the lack of internal control revealed in this area. However, on behalf of the Committee, I can say that we have noticed that the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the letter of allocation for the current financial year itself has underlined the importance of the Directorate setting up a satisfactory system to ensure good and systematic governance information. Although some of the facts mentioned in the Riksrevision report have been addressed in the 2010 letter of award, the Committee is pleased that the Riksrevision will follow up these findings within three years. It remains to be said, then, that the Committee is unanimous in this matter on all points.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2893	The overall objective of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs is to be a visible and clear operator of maritime safety. The Maritime Directorate shall contribute to the compliance of sailing ships with the applicable legislation. For the shipping nation Norway, this overall objective is of the utmost importance. Norway, as one of the leading nations in maritime activities, may not be familiar with any ambiguity in this area. Safety at sea is of very great social and economic importance to our nation. Therefore, it is important that the focus is on the optimum functioning of the tools that we as a nation have in this context and thus creates security for all parties. In the present investigation, the National Audit Office has revealed procedural weaknesses in important parts of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs’ activities. The Court of Auditors notes that procedures and checklists have been developed to a small extent in the proceedings and that decisions have been taken that are not in line with the legislation. It also mentions aspects such as the non-journal nature of important information and the fact that decisions have been made on a delayed basis without the Maritime Directorate having issued a conversion decision. These are aspects on which all parties are engaged to have the highest standard. Some kind of doubt in such areas is no good. It is argued that when the Maritime Directorate moved from Oslo to Haugesund, the Directorate lost 84 pst. by the crew, and that this occurred at the same time as there was a large growth in the industry. Everyone understands that this was a major challenge for the directorate, and that it resulted in a huge labour pressure for all employees – both those who joined Haugesund, and those who were newly added. Let me add that I do not regard the move as a negative for the future recruitment and operation of the Maritime Directorate. The Directorate is now in place in an area where maritime competence is strong, which is undoubtedly positive for the future recruitment of the best professionals. I understand that this is already a reality, and I am absolutely sure that this will be even better in the time to come. Here I want to draw a parallel to when the Polar Institute moved from Oslo to Tromsø. Then there were many employees who jumped off, and the predictions were gloomy, but today the Polar Institute has a completely unique competence in its field. I think this is precisely because of the location. I have noticed that the Department takes the situation in the Maritime Directorate very seriously, that additional appropriations were granted in 2008 to deal with the challenges of crewing and competence, and that this has been continued later. I therefore take a positive view of the situation, and I feel confident that all parties are doing what is possible to remedy the matters raised by the National Audit Office. In particular, it is important for the future recruitment and for the directorate's staff to focus on all the tasks associated with this important directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2921	The National Audit Office’s report is an important input to the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs’ efforts to continuously improve the process. A number of measures have already been taken to improve the quality of the management of the Directorate. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to examine the extent to which the Maritime Directorate has the necessary procedures and systems to ensure that the proceedings are carried out in accordance with good practice. The Ministry’s management of the Maritime Directorate is based on an overall approach to the entire internal control system, including risk management, control activity, information and communication, and follow-up/revision of the directorate’s internal management systems. This is reflected in the Ministry’s letter of assignment to the Directorate, where it is clear that risk management should be an integral part of the etat management dialogue. The Maritime Directorate has some challenges. This is mentioned in the Ministry's 2010 letter of award. One of the main objectives of the Maritime Directorate is quality at all stages. It also provides for a continuous improvement in the management of the directorate. The Maritime Directorate consists of a number of competent staff working on a very complex subject area. It is important to point out that the National Audit Office has examined a limited number of cases and units in the Directorate. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs handles about 130 000 documents annually. In recent years, however, the Maritime Directorate has been in a special situation. Some of the background to the challenges of the Directorate may be linked to the fact that the move to Haugesund coincided with a strong growth period in the industry. While the directorate experienced loss of competence, it was difficult to recruit staff with maritime and technical competence. For periods, the directorate has had many undeclared positions. Today, however, the Maritime Directorate is fully staffed, both at its headquarters and at the stations along the coast. The Government briefed the Government of the revised State Budget for 2008 on major new construction activities in the shipping industry, resulting in additional work and increased expenditure of the Maritime Directorate for Supervision, Control and Approval. Based on information provided by the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade considered that the personnel situation in 2008 did not represent an immediate safety risk, but that measures should be taken to prevent the long-term reduction of safety at sea. In order to ensure sufficient resources and professional competence for the implementation of defined objectives in key areas of maritime safety and environment, the operational appropriations of the Directorate were increased by 28 million. kr. The operational budget of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs continued to be strengthened in 2009 and 2010. This has contributed to increased recruitment and a better balance between tasks and resources. In 2009, the Government carried out an evaluation of the relocation of seven State supervision units from Oslo, including the Maritime Directorate. The report shows, among other things: that the staff of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs have higher formal competence, but lower real competence, after the transfer, and that this indicates vulnerability for a few more years. The Ministry has highlighted in its 2010 letter of award the need for the Directorate to focus on further training of its staff. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs has worked for a long time to develop procedures and procedures to ensure good quality of the procedure. However, the study of the Riksrevision shows that some work remains to be done to complete and implement the new procedures. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs is responsible for a comprehensive regulatory framework. Our national legislation is largely based on international legislation negotiated by the UN International Maritime Organisation (IMO). The Directorate has started work on possible simplifications of this legislation. I also point out that the IMO carried out an audit of Norway as a flag and port State in 2007. The audit revealed no deviations from the Directorate’s implementation of international legislation. Norway is a member of the Port State Control regime of the Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control. The objective is for each port State to inspect 25 pst annually. of the total number of foreign vessels. Checks are directed at all ships calling at the ports of the Parties, irrespective of the flag State to which they belong. Based on the checks carried out, the Paris MOU prepares a white, grey or blacklist classifying the standard ships. Norway is on the White List, which shows that there are few detentions of Norwegian ships as part of port State control in other countries. If the Maritime Directorate had not adopted safety standards as part of its certification of Norwegian ships, several ships would be detained abroad. ESA, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, at EMSA, the European Maritime Safety Agency, carried out audits of the Port State Control of the Directorate of Maritime Administration in 2009. No significant deficiencies were identified in this audit. I recognise that the Maritime Directorate has a clear potential for improvement in the quality of the procedure, which is also underlined in this debate. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, in its 2010 letter of allocation, underlined the importance of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs having a well-functioning internal control system. In conclusion, I stress that the department has a good and close governance dialogue with the directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2961	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2977	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated up to 10 minutes to the President of the case, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e2986	Norwegian Typing has an important role in Norwegian society, both to support culture and to support volunteering. They then have exclusive rights in a number of games and, in fact, after this hall's decision, they also monopolise slot machines. That means they have a special position in Norwegian politics. This means that they must carry out their role with caution, control and transparency. The facts on which this national audit report is based tell us about a culture where you haven't had the words as the main slogan for work. The basis for the Riksrevision's report is based on a warning that took the load it was telling about what the conditions were like in Norwegian Typing at the time. We in Stortinget should be happy that someone is taking the load it is, and we should be happy that someone is taking the role of being alerts in such a context. Because what is presented here in the national audit report is quite serious. It is an organisation that does not have its own routines, which also does not detect faults, and which develops a culture that the Committee has actually gone so far as to call ‘a culture’. It is a rare harsh criticism both the Committee and the National Audit Office have come along. It is also regrettable that one has not discovered this much earlier, whether it is clear that many of the things mentioned in the Riksrevision report have not been happening for a long time, and there are many governments that are responsible for the growth of this culture. The introduction of lottery surveillance in Norway was a very successful and good grip, which led to the control of some of these problems. However, it is clear that the management of ownership by the Ministry has been poor over time, and that there has been much more to pursue gambling policy than ownership by its main gaming company. There is also a lack of understanding of the whole system of stability and of the boundaries between its own economy and the economy of a state AS. Yes, there are ghastly examples that have emerged, how to mix these things together and make conditions messy, untransparent, and that leads to a lack of trust. The Committee has discussed reasonable solutions with regard to the auditor. This is one of the two points where we divide. The Party may prepare its own vision. What the committee has stressed is that we think it makes sense to change the accountant at regular intervals to get someone who can look at the company with a fresh eye. It is particularly important in such an enterprise, which acts like a monopoly company, and which is considered to be a money machine for the Norwegian state. I believe that if you are the head of such a company, you have to deal with the money that comes in, almost like a tax director who is going to deal with the tax money that comes in. This is the community's money, which is to be managed with the reverence that is actually expected. That's why we think it's important to create new, good internal auditor systems. It is also important to have an auditor who is not dependent on the Ministry and on whom the Department can rely when they want to discuss matters. It is clear that you want to have a different role with an external auditor than with a national auditor, who is also the Ministry's auditor. Governments have taken action to improve ownership. We received many examples during our consultation that the new management has a different understanding of its role than the former management has clearly had, and that the department has made new routines. The Committee calls for a summary of the new procedures and for the government to come back to the Storting and to provide information on the new steps taken to control the company. So to a point where the Committee does not agree, where the Left and the Advance Party are united on a note, and that is sponsorship. This is an enterprise that contributes to a surplus distributed by the King of State Council. Taking out large parts of that surplus in order to contribute to a different kind of sponsorship policy, I believe that there should be a very restrictive approach. That means that the company takes over part of the distribution, which should have been really under democratic control. Second, sponsorship, based on a purely commercial relationship, means that one distributes some cultural expressions to others. It is clear that there are also advantages between, for example: different sports – which is not the official policy of the country. So we don't deny that Norsk Tipping should have sponsorship, but we believe that it should be a very restrictive argument for, precisely because it intervenes against government policy, and because it also benefits in some forms of culture. It is clear that it is relatively likely that it is more profitable, from a purely economic point of view, to sponsor top athletes than to sponsor a local, small 4H club or others that are politically thought to be a priority. I hope that the Council of State can say something about what she thinks about it. It's very unusual for me to take 10 minutes of speaking time, it's the first time this year. But finally, I want to sum up a little bit, a basic understanding of the role Norsk Typing actually has. This is a clean money machine for the state. If you don't have a lot of transparency, if you don't have very good control regimes, and it develops such cultures as what we've seen here -- as the committee actually defines as an unculture -- we've failed with our entire game policy, because it undermines the trust that Norsk Typing actually needs in order for people to choose them when to choose games for fun. In recent years, Norwegian gambling policy has been very concerned with limiting, and sometimes it has had the impression that a historical one has seen in the context of alcohol policy for periods of time, which have also not gone well. I think it's important to lean back and say that playing games is something that most people think is funny, but for some people it can go wrong. Then we have to regulate it, not forbid us from doing so. It is clear that we have not cared about the management of this company, that we have not cared about the scope of this company, and that we have also believed that all games are okay as long as Norwegian Typing has its logo on it, I think we have to go away from it. We have to look at how to create ownership structures here, and how to make a game regulation that meets the challenges of the future in terms of new technology, and in terms of other challenges, because Norwegian Typing has played out many of its chances in what is revealed here in the National Audit Office's report. We have to look at our entire game policy in a broader way than that. It's been a wake-up call for many, what's revealed here, and it should also mean that you discuss both game and ownership in a new way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3014	The President will note that the allocated speaking time given to each representative is the maximum speaking time. It's completely possible to use shorter time if you want. It is an election that each representative may make.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3017	I want to start somewhere other than on the Hamar, namely on Upper Rome. Under the heading «Teachers of the Waterworks», the Evening Post comments on Sunday, in a leadership position, the final judgment against the former Waterworks Manager of Rome in the following way: ‘Although the main issue of corruption in Norway’s history is thus legally finalised, the lessons must not be forgotten. This is the story of how an industrious waterworks manager for decades neglected all procurement legislation and commissioned a network of private companies that he or she, relatives or partners controlled.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is the eleventh-ville story of how the interaction between private and public companies made it possible to cheat enormous amounts that the Waterworks Manager salted into his hunting paradise in South Africa.’ So far the Evening Post. Without comparison and on a completely different scale – of course much less – there are certain structures to which we can nominate when we go through the extended revision of Norwegian Typing, and which makes it very important that we draw lessons from such things as this. So here we are dealing with a managing director who became a kind of king on the hill – with a slight big man's madness – who increasingly mixed his private economy with the company's economy. The much-mentioned gardening business is just a small part of what is being revealed. We see what we've called an unculture. We see a lack of traceability and lack of transparency. We are talking here about a special law company with guaranteed revenues – without proper internal control. Everything that could go wrong went wrong: the internal control failed, the board failed, the auditor failed, and the owner failed. So it had to be another warning, a "whistleblower," so that things would come out and up in the light – and be honored for it. As the rapporteur said, the Stortinget should be pleased. But how could this happen – and why did that happen? One thing was, I think, the board was blinded. Here you had a company where the money flowed in. Norwegian Typing was successful as a gaming company – and is successful as a gaming company, let me underline it. But thus also closed the eyes of the financial mischief that was committed. We should remember that Norwegian Typing only had an increase in the game revenue of 35 pst in the period 1997-2007. Then you can easily get drunk. Bakrusen should have come, however, when it turned out that the cost increase was 79 p.m. during the same period. In the enlarged administrative audit carried out by the Riksrevision, the Riksrevision believes that the follow-up by the Ministry of Norwegian Typing has been too focused on the rules on gambling, and to a much lesser extent has followed up business operations – i.e.: failure of ownership management. This was also the case rapporteur inside his post. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State, Mr Huitfeldt, at the open hearing held by the Committee, stressed that the Riksrevision report has led to significant changes. New ethical guidelines have been developed and new practices have been developed through an annual review of the ethical guidelines. It is also important, I think, that the Council of State is now conducting an internal review of the Ministry's ownership management and that she will return to the Stortinget at a later date when the final fact-finding is completed. So: Norsk Tipping is a special law company, it's not part of the government, and it's not part of the government accounts either. Great values go out and into every single day. Therefore, the Committee believes that this company should perhaps have a normal, external company auditor who can accompany day-to-day operations and who the board can deal with on an ongoing basis and who can also deal with the department without double-driving. This does not mean, of course, that the Riksaudition is not going to run a management audit, but it is about the day-to-day audit. The majority of the Committee – all except the Advance Party – therefore asks the Ministry to consider whether it should not in future be such that Norwegian Tipping should receive an external company auditor, a professional auditor, as is the case with all other state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3042	In my eight years in the Norwegian Cultural Committee, I have lived close to Norwegian Tipping and have been an engaged participant in many debates on Norwegian gambling policy, all the way from the representative Per Sandberg and I promoted and got a majority in the case of re-allocation of tipping funds to strengthen sport and culture – in 2002, I think it was – and through many things: about machines, about gambling addiction, about the introduction of automatic monopoly, and about the effects of giving Norwegian Typing this monopoly. The Progress Party was alone in the fight against the automatic monopoly, and we have also felt relatively alone in the fight for better conditions for the lotteries that voluntary organisations are allowed to operate and which are the exceptions to the gambling monopoly. But this is another debate. I have also had the opportunity to visit Norsk Tipping on several occasions and be informed about the operation there. All monopolies should be given attention from the political environment, and particular attention should be paid to public enterprises with monopolies. They must be kept in tight clothes! The National Audit Office's report shows that Norwegian Typing has not kept the necessary standard. One "like" after another, if you say it like that, has fallen out of the closet. It all started after an employee announced several critical conditions in the company. It's great that there are individuals who have the courage to do this. I have now been on the Control and Constitutional Committee since last autumn, and there have been some national audit reports that I have read. My impression is that it is unusual that the Riksrevision is as sharp in the criticism as it is Document No. 3:14. If you look at the correspondence referred to in the report, I also think there is something else that is unusual. It seems that the Ministry of Culture has a somewhat different and less constructive and humble relationship with the National Audit Office than other departments have. But that's my subjective impression. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the Progress Party stands alone in one part of the vote. This relates to the audit of accounts. The majority want Norsk Typing to change the accountant at regular intervals. The Progress Party believes that the Riksaudition has a very good competence to carry out the accounting audit of Norwegian Typing and has confidence that the Riksaudition has done a good job and will be able to do it in the future. If Norwegian Typing needs to acquire more accounting competence, this can be easily purchased from the major audit firms in addition to the control of the National Audit Office. We are convinced that if Norsk Tipping calls one of the major audit firms or consultants in Norway and says that they need accounting assistance or advice, it will not take many minutes before they get a yes. We also, along with the Left Party, have a slightly different view of Norwegian Typing's extensive sponsorship activities. Of course, Norwegian Tipping should be able to enter into sponsorship contracts to strengthen the company's reputation. The marketing is necessary to get customers, but it must be done according to clean and orderly lines, and kept under supervision, so that the size does not run smoothly. I would like to point out here that there is uncertainty regarding the return of employees and agreements with teams and organisations related to the managers and board members of the company. We are, however, partly reassured by the fact that both the current Chairman and the Executive Director of the hearing assured us that the sponsorship business has now been tightened up. In conclusion, I would like to sum up the view of the Progress Party as follows: It is obvious that questions can be asked about whether the use of resources in Norwegian Typing has been sound. This applies, for example: the purchase of businesses that are adjacent to the objectives of the company, the lack of cost control and extensive unmanaged sponsorship activities. We believe that the criticism raised against the Ministry's management of ownership is also justified. The loser in the last instance in this case is Norwegian culture and sport through the distribution of profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3068	On behalf of the Right, I mainly agree with the rapporteur's thorough examination, not least her emphasis on the fact that the facts in Norwegian Typing revealed by the Riksrevision are very serious. The matter has not been concluded with this. During June, the Council of State will receive a report on its table, an investigation report, and we will almost call it, using external expertise, which has been subjected to a number of conditions in Norwegian Typing that may be illegal. It is the company itself, by the new board, that has initiated this report, or the investigation. I expect the Council of State to report if necessary, if there are grounds for doing so. It is important – even though the situation is a little behind – that there are limits and that there should also be clear rules on ethics and morality in a company like this. I would also like to say the following: I am basically satisfied with the presentation made by the current Council of State in the hearing of the principles of ownership management. It seems that the emphasis has been on formal lines and traceability, as it is called – i.e. that there is a record and that there is not too much informality in control. Policy will hopefully be in line with this. But what strikes me is that the government promoted in 2006 – a announcement of ownership, promoted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which would apply to all departments. When you read how it has been between the department and Norwegian Typing – I underline it has been – I really wonder if the ownership message is known in all departments. We have another case, which will be dealt with on Thursday, where it is revealed that Stortinget's decision on the encryption of health records in the defense did not become known to the Ministry of Defence until it had been completed approx. one and a half years after the decision of the Storting. So you can always wonder if the flow of information inside the government system is satisfactory. The debate on this announcement of ownership was held with the Minister of Industry in the Chamber, and the above-mentioned encryption debate with the Minister of Health in the Chamber. Are the departments really no longer following what is going on in Stortinget? At least there is every reason to ask that question, even on the basis of this case. Two comments also to where this is in the setting, first sponsorship. Well, right and I look at sponsorship as something that is commercially managed by the company to increase the company's earnings and hence profits, and thus also contribute to the purposes to be met, among others. sports. Sponsoring does not need any political governance other than that. The ministry has so drawn up some ethical guidelines that for me also seem quite obvious, but which have obviously been broken in the past. In addition to that, there is no need for political governance of sponsorship. Sponsorship shall not be a sport policy; it is the result of activities to create and provide a basis for sport policy. So the question about the accountant. There is in itself no distrust of the Riksrevision when a majority, a large majority, now asks the Ministry to consider whether Norsk Tipping should use other auditors than the Riksrevision, i.e. engage in private external auditors. That's for two reasons -- one is because I think Norwegian Typing obviously needs a more active audit than the Riksrevision after its purpose can be. Then the Progress Party says that then they can only go out and rent that help. Well, it would be a little funny if you were to have one audit, and in addition you would go to another accountant and ask for advice. There may well be some ethical problems for one and the other, especially for those hired to advise a company that is being audited by another company again, or by another auditor. The second reason is that I think it is neat that the Riksrevision revises the ownership management of the departments, while there is another auditor who is auditing the company Norsk Tipping. One has parallels to this in other parts of the administration. I would remind you that it is the National Audit Office that revises the Treasury's ownership management of the State pension fund abroad, while the State pension fund abroad has its own audit and is governed by the company's representation. That's a good parallel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3079	On behalf of the Christian People's Party, we are also very much in agreement with the rapporteur, Mrs Grande, on behalf of the Committee. I would just like to make two comments on the vote, and that is the section entitled "Openness and Trust" in the Committee's comments. I think one should be aware that Norsk Tipping – with the monopoly situation they have, not least after they have now taken over slot machines – because suppliers are a company that is a piece of candy, let's call it that. Making agreements with Norwegian Typing means a lot to those who get it: secure payment, large volume, etc. This requires an extra amount to make sure that the processes you have, for example: in the selection of a supplier, is good. I think I got an aha experience when we had the hearing. There was a lot of focus on the time when Norwegian Typing came under the Public Acquisitions Act. It became a huge work for Norwegian Tipping, it was said, after you had to deal with that law. It tells me something about how the work has been before. On questions, it was answered correctly that of course they had routines etc. But my particular impression was that at least what creates a notary about acquisitions was a lot to do with at some point, in this case after 2005. Here I think it has simply been too relaxed in the company. It's an area that I'm very pleased that both from the Council of State and from the Chairman of the Board of Directors underlined the importance of, so that Norsk Tipping can take good care of the social responsibility that you also have in the future. It is clear that not everyone should be cut over a comb, nor all parts of Norwegian Typing. There's a lot of positive in Norwegian Typing. In order not to go too far into the political side, I would definitely say that the company as such is important because we have good control of the gaming market, what we can control, after all. With regard to this with the selection of auditors, this is the only company that the Riksrevision has. We want to have at least a certain understanding of the choice of a slightly different form of the future, and the comments of the majority here give the Council the absolute opportunity to do so, so that the Riksrevision can also fine-calibrate its follow-up to the Ministry as its owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3097	I thank you for many important articles. These posts, the round we had during the hearing, as well as some external reports and the National Audit Office's report will form the basis for the ministry's further work. We will consider more issues when we have received the factual review referred to earlier during this discussion, and possibly come back to the Storting in an appropriate way and address some of the questions that have been raised here. For the sake of order, I would also like to inform the representative Nybakk that the hydroelectric scandal occurred on Lower Rome and not on Upper Rome, where Jessheim is located. The National Audit Office’s extended audit shows that Norwegian Typing has to take self-criticism on assessments that led to the gardener’s case and to its handling. The company has done the same. New management has established a stricter code of ethics and risk management. The company has also established new procedures for annual review and report to the Management Board on risk management. I would also like to stress that the department has obtained a special assessment from a law firm about the ownership management of Norsk Tipping. A goal of the department's ownership management is to achieve more conscious use of the general meeting. Not later than the general meeting in Norwegian Typing on Hamar on 4 May, I underlined the importance of the general meeting as the owner's main instrument in the ongoing management of the company. The contact between the department and the board is strengthened by the introduction of periodic meetings between the owner and the board. The governance dialogue shall also be further formalised and reports from all meetings shall now be made. Two issues that the Riksrevision has raised about Norwegian Typing are not included in the report Stortinget now has to deal with. The Court of Auditors has explained this in letters to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on 16 February 2010. The letter is attached to the committee position. In dialogue with the Ministry, the Norwegian Board of Directors has launched an external fact collection to identify facts about these conditions. The results of this fact collection are expected to be available in these days. I would like to stress that if there are criminal offences, they should be reported by the representative Foss. After the report has been submitted to the Norwegian Tipping Board, I will be briefed on the Board’s assessment with proposals for possible further follow-up. I will come back to Stortinget and inform you of the results of the fact collection and any further follow-up as early as possible. Some would view the criticism of Norsk Tipping as evidence that monopoly companies are doing their social work badly. I would like to point out that this company has to a large extent succeeded in carrying out the mission of big business and government. The company operates active gaming developments and has a stable high and rising turnover yielding profits of 3 billion. kr. The company’s game creates little gambling dependence, and the company’s mission from Stortinget is to set up an innovative and responsible gaming offer on gaming terminals to replace the vending machines that only a few years ago created significant gaming problems. The company has also followed and adapted to technological developments both in terms of payment transfer and other game developments. Norwegian Tipping today appears to be a highly skilled technological company. The Gartner case shows the importance of good accounting audit and the importance of vigilance and constitutional control of the company. Much might suggest that if the company receives an independent external auditor as an accounting auditor, it would strengthen the Riksaudien’s constitutional control of the company. The company will therefore be audited by two different bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3124	I'm glad too much of what the Council of State said about both the seriousness and the seriousness of this, and that the Council of State promises to come back to the Stortinge on how this is being enforced. Much of the Council's intervention went on control regimes so that this should not happen again — a good control regime for things not to happen again in relation to the construction of uncultures and transparency. Norwegian Typing is in the break between being a company exposed to a type of competition and being the manager of Community values. My question to the Council of State is whether she can imagine taking action for more transparency in relation to Norwegian Typing, so that the transparency of the media and the transparency of Norwegian citizens might lead to a different type of control, and a awareness in the organisation that there are actually some Norwegian citizens who see them in the cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3133	It's natural to have a discussion about the transparency of Norwegian Typing, but it also has some limitations. They operate in a competitive market and discussions on the possible introduction of new games may be met with significant interest from competitors. So any transparency must take on board that the company operates in a competitive situation, so that it is not natural to have transparency in the same way as in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3138	I fully agree with the Council of State that when it comes to precisely developing business, there are things that need to be protected in terms of transparency. But having a more open-minded attitude to all the other parts of Norwegian Typing, to owner structures and things that have been asked about, it must be possible to get to work if you do not put all the business secrets online.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3143	It is natural to have a review of these conditions when I may return to Stortinget in an appropriate form once we have received this fact-finding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3148	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3166	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. As Stortinget records, there is now a new ‘minister of health’ who is present. It is not an example of a government council that has not met, but I have been told that, in agreement with the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Council of State Rigmor Aasrud meets in the place of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3177	The size will now deal with the National Audit Office’s follow-up and quality study in private institutions in the multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts. The Committee stands together on the main part of the comments, but there are some comments from the opposition parties that I expect them to mention themselves. Regional health firms were given responsibility for the multi-disciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts when the Rusreform entered into force in 2004. The overall objective of the Rusreform is to provide good services to drug users with complex problems and to improve treatment outcomes. On a national basis, private service providers in this area constitute 58,3 pst. of the total processing capacity. This is a significant proportion of the overall competence in this area, and it clearly shows that private providers have also received good access here to countries. In 2008, the regional health enterprises granted grants for the purchase of services for approx. 927 million. kr to private institutions in the multidisciplinary specialised treatment. A total of 931 private daily seats were purchased from private institutions. We're talking here about significant amounts, and it has to be in place to look at how this works in practice, and what we get back for these large amounts. I understand those who ask why there are still so many challenges in this area, and why it's going so late, when at the same time so much money is allocated to better conditions. Therefore, there is reason to take a positive view that the Riksrevision has gone into this so thoroughly in order to clarify all the aspects of the case. We're all well aware that these are complicated tasks, but the more important it is with good governance. A Joint Committee agrees with the National Audit Office on the importance of providing better management information so that the Ministry can better assess the performance and quality of the specialist health service in this field. An overall committee has noted that the Riksrevision study has revealed that a large proportion of patients enrolled by the institution have not been able to draw up individual plans. The Committee has also taken note of the Riksrevision that failure to draw up individual plans could pose a risk of non-compliance with the patient’s rights and may have implications for the objective of the institution’s treatment. The Committee considers that these are matters that need to be resolved as a matter of urgency and welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Health and Health has paid extra attention to this issue to regional health businesses. This includes, of course, private institutions with agreements with regional health enterprises. The National Audit Office’s study also shows that the institutions experience problems related to interaction with municipalities in the planning of aftertreatment, and that this is largely linked to getting a dwelling, but also to other cooperation after treatment. The Committee sees clearly that non-cooperation in such areas may weaken the effectiveness of the treatment. An overall committee welcomes the appropriate involvement of the Ministry of Health and Welfare in the Riksrevision study in the governance dialogue with regional health companies. An overall committee is also concerned that more research should be done in the field of drugs to look at what drug use can lead to, what kind of costs drug use causes society as a whole, and how we can help those who are addicted to drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3203	The National Audit Office’s study of multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts shows that there are no clear guidelines on how to administer treatment and the treatment methods to be used, either among private or public treatment institutions. It is important that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should give priority to setting up national guidelines for these services, and the Progress Party would have preferred them to be put in place before 2015, as suggested by the Ministry. As pointed out by the National Audit Office, the private institutions represent a significant part of the overall professional competence in this field. Regional health enterprises have used too little of the competence represented by these institutions. For the Progress Party, it is important that treatment capacity and competences are optimised. We're less concerned about whether it's in private or through the public. It's the patients, not who runs the business, which is the central thing for us in the Progress Party. It is therefore important for private institutions to be more closely involved in the development of regional health enterprises, for example: for the preparation of regional rough planning, use of coating capacity, after-sales protection, etc. The study shows that about 70 pst. patients have not developed an individual plan and, in cases where an individual plan exists, it is often deficient. Obviously, the institutions have a job to do here. We assume that the Ministry of Health and Health will follow up, so that more people will get the help they need, including, as mentioned, the preparation of an individual plan. We notice that the institutions are experiencing problems with the municipalities, which are supposed to help patients get back after they stay at the institution. Problems are largely linked to the provision of housing and after-sales services. If this is not regulated and better cooperation is achieved, the residence at the institution may be lost. And there's none of us in this room that wants. Finally, we see in our eyes that this report reveals weaknesses in the private institutions. However, the problems raised by the report relate to the corresponding public institutions, such as: lack of interaction, lack of individual plans, lack of guidelines, etc. And I have to point out, finally, that over the years there have been a number of media essays about cows in terms of drug treatment. No later than this weekend it was a news medium that reported that approx. 4 000 drug users are in line. It is therefore particularly important that private places in Norway should not be demolished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3222	There are 4,500 who are in line for treatment in different drug institutions. It should really be said that one made a good effort to ensure constructive and good cooperation between health businesses and the private institutions, which one does not actually do without, in order to be better acquainted with the situation in which I find it difficult to call anything but unworthy. I have to say that I am deeply concerned about the attitude many health companies have towards the private institutions, especially in a situation where a – I would say – hard-hitting tendering regime, which has squandered many institutions that have been in existence for 30 to 40 years and that are going to be gone for a moment. And that happens, unfortunately, I must say, with the government's blessing. This is a little more policy-based than this report provides, but it tells me a lot when this survey shows that the same companies are using little of the skills known to these institutions. In some cases, private institutions are not at all involved in the preparation of regional drug plans. Then, in my opinion, it is something that is ripping off the wrong, and that, at last, the patients must suffer for. This is also supported by the fact that health enterprises, in their tendering regimes – I would call it – almost no longer oblige the private sector to have contact, because it may affect the tendering process. Institutions that used to be partners have now become competitors. If there's one area where I really want the government to put in political will, it's this, because with such a way that health companies now control this field, it's going in the wrong direction. That shouldn't happen when we have several thousand in line for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3231	Then, according to what the president understands, the representative Trine Skei Grande has asked for the floor for a five-minute post. She'll have a chance to do that before the government council's advertised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3234	Thank you, President, that's what's usual. I want to address an aspect that I want to comment on. First of all, I would like to say that we agree with all the remarks about the use of private institutions. In the event of an incursion – I think there was a little bit of back and forth in that very meeting of the committee – the ‘full out’ fell out of the second last note, line three, second column, at the end of the Committee’s vote. What I want to raise is about the professionalism in this particular area. When the Stoltenberg Committee was set up to assess different solutions in the care system, they invited them to an idea of what works best. That's pretty special. This is a subject. Generations have been working on developing the subject, helping addicts out of addiction. I think I see the selection that will work with the care of heart patients, and that invites me to the idea of what helps when you have heart problems! It's actually a subject, and then it's a policy. This is a field in which subjects and policies, where moral indexing and much more, have influenced how we come up with solutions for them in society that are most out of date. I think we should now move away from this, and say that this is a subject that someone can, and where something works. And what works, we should use. These are people who are disabled and who are struggling and who should get the help and support they can get. That is why I would like to draw particular attention to the comment of the Committee on Research in this field. This is the field of medicine where there's at least investment in research, even though we spend a lot of money on it. Oslo University Hospital uses 2 pst. by its medical research in this whole field of drug use. I think that is what we should be working on in order to achieve better solutions, is to bet on those professionals who can help develop good professional solutions for people. This field has to get out of sight, it has to be out of politics and morality, we have to get real skills into this, and we have to manage the money properly. Then we have to have the right professionals to treat people, and that helps people out of what they actually live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3243	As the rapporteur said in his statement, private institutions cover about 60 p.m. of the total capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment through agreements with regional health establishments. This shows that private institutions have a very central place in the overall supply of drug addicts. The National Audit Board has assessed whether the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the regional health undertakings have established appropriate systems for the follow-up of the offer of the private institutions to multidisciplinary specialised treatment, hereinafter referred to as ‘TSB’. In the report, they have mentioned seven areas on which they have found the basis to comment. The Russfield is largely based on professional traditions outside the specialist health service, as the Riksrevision itself mentions. The field became part of the specialist health service only at the Rusreform in 2004. There is reason to believe that it will take time to integrate a new field of expertise into the large system of specialist health services. The National Audit Office refers to seven areas to be mentioned here: the TSB was the first specialist health service area where a priority counsellor was established. It happened through the project Correct Priority under the direction of the Health Directorate. In January of this year, the Directorate provided national guidelines for LAR. Corresponding guidance will be provided for all parts of the TSB in four years. These will also include emergency and emergency services for drug addicts. As TSB first became part of the specialist healthcare service in 2004, this field has not been previously reported. From 2009 onwards, all institutions within the TSO will report activity data to the Norwegian patient registry, NPR. These figures will be published in a separate NPR report during the summer. The data will be available as management information in 2011. With effect from 1 September, all relevant health professional units and all private service providers within the TSB will be subject to procedural coding requirements. In this way, we get information about the treatment given to patients in the TSB, this as a basis for further developing the service. Regional health enterprises have a slightly different practice in this area. Health Mid-Norway has its own health business in the drug field and therefore has closer follow-up than the other health businesses. But all health regions have organised cooperation with private institutions. In the work on the Cooperation Reform, private institutions participated in a separate group dealing with patient trajectories. The contributions from private institutions were very useful. Of course, the operation of all private institutions shall be in line with the applicable legislation and regulatory requirements. This is a clear requirement in the procurement process carried out by regional health businesses. The study points out that some institutions have failed to provide adequate internal control systems. This will be followed up appropriately with regional health enterprises. All patients who need long-term and coordinated services have the right to develop an individual plan. The National Audit Board points out that a large proportion of patients in the TSB do not have such a plan. This is going to be better. Regional health establishments have been informed that the proportion given an individual level will be increased. One of three institutions does not have good enough written procedures for interaction with municipal services. Regional health enterprises shall monitor and further develop cooperation between the specialist health services and the municipalities. This still applies. Additional letters shall soon be sent to the 2010 mission document. It is assumed that health firms are familiar with and follow up on the issues addressed by the Riksrevision in their report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3260	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3263	Since the Council of State present has a background from the department concerned, I dare to ask the following questions: What is the explanation that the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Government in this area accept that eleven years from now the government is devoting responsibility to a patient group to the development of national treatment guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3268	I think one should admit that the drug field has been a heavy field where there have been many providers who have provided good services, but where little overall services have been developed. With the experience gained with the registers that have been developed over time, so that you can see something more about quality, it has only now been possible to start work on getting good treatment processes and good quality systems for the drug field. So I also think we're all going to admit that the drug field over the years has not been the field of health care that has had the highest focus. I'm glad the committee and others have now raised the field. There is also a need to focus heavily on the drug field in the future. Therefore, new treatment guidelines will also be put in place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3276	I insist on a line since the Council of State has considerable experience in being a temporary worker, and I believe that she can respond. What I think is shown in this report is that health companies do not treat the private institutions as equivalent partners with the public. If you had an equivalent treatment, you would have, I think, much more involved the private institutions in order to get to a drug care that is better than the one we have today. I think we agree on that; we need more than 4,000 queues. My question to the Council of State is: Is the government's basic starting point that the private institutions are equivalent participants in this cooperation and will it also be given to regional health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3285	When 60 pst. of the offers made by private institutions, it is clear that they are a very important part of the entire field of service. It is also necessary to draw on the experience of private institutions in the further development of the service. That is why, in the context of the Interaction Reform, private health institutions have played an important role in creating patient patterns, which I believe are very important for getting good and comprehensive care in the future, so that we know what to do at the time, and also through it can gain more knowledge of the treatment methods that should be used at the different times of drug treatment. So in this context, the private institutions are clearly an important part of the premise for the professional development to take place in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3290	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3295	The National Audit Office's report goes into the range of reports and supervision that tells us that we are not able to give drug users the offer they should have and that they actually have rights to. The State Health Authority also said this when the Health and Care Committee met with them. Individual levels are seen as an important tool for identifying a need and for establishing a long-term plan for individuals in cooperation with the individual and several involved bodies. An individual plan is a right that is actually very few to experience. I note that an overall committee refers to the fact that a large part of patients have not been able to draw up an individual plan and that in this respect the committee says that this is a matter which needs to be resolved as soon as possible. It is great that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs agrees. That was not the case when the Health and Welfare Committee dealt with Document No. 8:56 for 2009–2010 in Innst. 214 S for 2009–2010 on better drug treatment. The opposition presented the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for action in the field of drug treatment to ensure that the right to an individual plan is followed up by legislation.’ This happened just a few months ago, and then the government parties did not think it was important that several people had such a plan. The report also shows that more than half of the institutions visited express problems in cooperation with municipalities in the planning of after-sales protection. This is perhaps the biggest failure in the care of the drug. The addicts to whom I am talking all say that there was a total lack of follow-up and post-protection that did not keep it, while those who succeeded stress that the reason why it went well this time was that the offer of post-protection was good and correct. We have had this issue for years, and it is well known to most people. Therefore, I would like to stress that the Progress Party is still of the opinion that post-protection in the municipalities will not be improved until we have implemented a state funding of the entire treatment cycle. Finally, I would like to comment on these claims: ‘Disadvantages in knowledge of the need for services may lead to a lack of the most appropriate service provision being established.’ At a drug seminar I was on for some time ago, HELFO gave talks about his role. I was both surprised and sad when I understood how little drug users themselves had to say for the choice of treatment site. Only rarely could they choose for themselves. Those who had strong opinions about this and would not go anywhere lost their patient rights and stayed standing waiting for treatment for one to two years. This contrasts in stark contrast with the objective of establishing an individual plan and of developing it in close cooperation with the one in question. The National Audit Office says the following about the individual level: ‘The lack of content poses a risk that the patient does not know which services to provide and when and how the services are to be provided. Furthermore, shortcomings in the plan may lead to the fact that the post-institutional follow-up body does not have the necessary basis for providing targeted assistance.’;» It is not nice that we succeed so badly in our drug treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3330	I take the floor to respond to the claim that the government does not believe that individual plan is important. The government believes that individual level is important. It is an important tool for good treatment provision for the individual. Therefore, the government has also now granted its own grants in order to test out schemes in which people are involved in making an individual plan for those who need coordinated healthcare services. Therefore, I must say that the claim that the government says that the individual level is not important does not lead to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3335	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3351	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes of the Central Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes of the Left. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3360	Let me first thank the Committee for a clean and good process in dealing with this matter. I would also like to thank my alternate, Morten Stordalen, who stepped in and took part of the case report while I was on leave. I am very pleased that the committee seems to agree on the importance of the cancer effort in the years to come. A real boost in cancer research and treatment requires that health policy-makers, professionals in treatment and research, as well as the commercial actors in medicine and research, are united. This is not just the challenge of our society, but the major medical challenge of the entire world society. In this field, therefore, there is nothing to prevent small Norway from being a spearhead in the world’s measuring stick. I actually don't think we should have lower ambitions than that. Status may not always be as good as we would have liked. For this reason, I will be allowed to refer to the director of the Health Inspectorate, Lars E. Hanssen, who has gone hard in today's business this month. He punished the management of Norwegian hospitals for poor organisation of cancer treatment. A risk report carried out by supervision states that the risk is too high and that the potential for improvement is ‘significant’ — nothing less. That is why it is commendable that the Right has promoted this proposal. I, the undersigned and the Party of Progress, have earlier in this session also raised an interpellation in the same field. Cancer is a terrible disease that hits, or is going to hit, every third Northman. It not only hits the body physically but is also a major challenge mentally – both for the one who gets the difficult message, and not least the relatives. Getting such a message is heavy and difficult, and those of us who have not received such a message can probably not imagine what it is like. That's exactly why we need the best system, to take care of patients and not least the relatives. It is important to continue the fight against cancer, and it must not be at the country’s legislative assembly to fight against cancer. That's why this case is so important, not just to help today's cancer patients and their relatives out of their disease image, but at least as much to ensure that tomorrow's cancer treatment is both better, more comprehensive – and provides better results than today's medicine can give us. For an overall health and care committee, it is important to point out that the proposals in this matter do not only need to be annexed to the Protocol and then added to the Minister of Health's desk, but that this must, on the contrary, be the beginning of a sustained fight against one of the world's most merciless diseases. Let me get into the recent priority debate, or the prize of human life, if you want. The health director's report that cancer patients cannot count on the very best treatment in the future has alarmed many, including me. The debate is important and correct, but has the wrong focus. You can, and should, of course, ask some questions at the Norwegian Health Service. And you can, and you should, ask questions about the Norwegian health system is too expensive. Yeah, maybe it is, but probably not because of the few expensive patients or because of cancer research. No, rather, I think it is due to poor organisation, overbureaucratisation and, of course, to being a long-term country, which means that we cannot be compared to some of the countries we are compared to. In that priority debate, it is important to ask whether we need to give priority to cancer treatment. My answer and that of the Advancement Party is: Yes, we must. It's at the moment the disease that affects most, and here there's also a great potential for the future to save people, and not only that, but get them back to society in a real way. Then we also have to remember that we are the world leader in the field from before, and we have to take care of the competences we have, and not least develop it. I have received many despaired telephones and e-mails recently after the priority debate started. And I think we'll think a little bit about what this does to people who've got the hard message and are ready to take their life's toughest fight to survive and come back to society. So while deciding what to do and trying to get strength for it, you can read in the newspapers that politicians, and not least the academy, are discussing whether it's worth spending money on this. It must be perceived as a blow to the face of many sick people. There are many ways to save money in the Norwegian health care system, but deprioritising cancer treatment is not one of the methods that can and should be used. If the world's richest country can't afford to be the leader in developing future cancer treatment, who can? It is important that we as a nation contribute to more research, more development and better treatment. There is one reason why the health director’s play-out, to use the VM surgery, is a shot far above the target. The reason why we have to bet on experimental treatment is that it is what will eventually create the future cancer treatment. Developments in the cancer field are fast-moving, and Norway has to stick with it. If we are to look at the pillars that we have in Norwegian cancer research, where the Radium Hospital is the one, it is essential that what needs to be in place to achieve the goal of improving cancer treatment is to take care of the environment of competence that we already have. So this is the Radium Hospital. It is therefore important to ensure that the environment around the Radium Hospital, which has a good reputation internationally, is strengthened, as the opposition has called for several times in the last year. The cancer register is also an important pillar, which, in my opinion and in the view of the Progress Party, must remain as an independent unit, and not fragmented or rotated in relation to the management systems. The registry has a central role — and has had it — in Norwegian cancer research, and is perhaps one of the main reasons why we are in the forefront. This needs to be developed into more quality records for cancer. Of course, they should be pseudonymous, externally encrypted and based on consent or reservation requirements. The opposition has proposed this. Oslo Cancer Cluster, OCC, too, is an important pillar of cancer research. They have been a pioneer in the sense behind the integration of industry, research and treatment, a mindset that has become a model for many around the world – in fact, after just the Norwegian model. Therefore, both financially and not least under framework conditions, the OCC must be continued and strengthened so that they can remain the pillar they have been. In the end, I want to mention the Stamcell Center as the last pillar I'm pointing at. Here is much of the future in Norwegian and international cancer research. I personally believe that the answers are in this area. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party have fought through the establishment of the Stemcell Centre, but unfortunately we are far behind the corresponding country in terms of appropriations and resources for the work done – even Sweden is far ahead of us. It has to end. In the setting, the Progress Party also pointed out in its comments the fact that the fraction visited the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, and it is not entirely without inspiration from this visit and what we experienced there, that we are extra involved in the cancer issue. My post unfortunately does not give me the opportunity to go into everything we experienced, but I just want to briefly mention some of the reasons why we feel that we learned a lot and got good inspiration in Houston. This applies not least to the professional community that we experienced there, where there were 18,000 employees who were dedicated to cancer, cancer treatment and research and to a search for tomorrow's response to today's major challenges. They were also good at seeing the whole human being. In these words, I would like to be allowed to comment on the proposals that we are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3400	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3403	It is very positive to say about the representative proposal by Erna Solberg, Bent Höie and Sonja Irene Sjøli on a reinforced effort against cancer. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for a good job. There are many proposals, and although the Labour Party is not in favour of them all, it does not mean that we disagree, as the comments also show. We support many of the intentions, because we see that much of what is in the proposals is going on, is a little ahead of time, or is notified by the Council of State. Of course, some of these proposals we disagree with, and I want to take the opportunity here to comment on some of them in particular, just as we did during the process. At the same time, I would like to refer to the profound answers contained in the Council's letter of reply, which is attached to the vote. Cancer is one of our major challenges, both for the affected, for the family around and for society. That's why it's so important that we constantly look at the possibility of getting better treatment, that research gets better, and that we work to get even better care than the one we have today. It has to be, for example: there is no need to wait for treatment. Health oversight also shows in its report where these main challenges are. We have to do something with them, like that. Delays in diagnostics. Here it has to be smoother, faster and better routines, which I figured the Council of State will follow up. Much has happened in a few years in terms of knowledge and treatment, and much is going to happen. New drugs and new methods make more people survive, as well as the quality of life living with cancer, better. That's why the effort to improve quality, with new quality regulations, research and development, is one of the most important things we can do to make it even better. One of the great breakthroughs I want to mention is the HPV vaccine against cervical cancer, which is offered to girls of 7th grade. It is very good that unvaccinated girls – those born in 1997 – who were not offered because of the pandemic vaccine, now get the offer, because we know that this vaccine will save many lives in the long term. Approximately 300 women are affected every year, and 80 to 100 die each year from this form of cancer. The goal must be to get this further down. The proposers mention the development of several quality registers, and we agree with that. But we believe that they should be pseudonymous and externally encrypted. I also ask the question that the Council of State points out in its letter of reply: How can it reconcile with what they propose when, for example, it does? is the mammography programme concerned? In such programmes, pseudonymous records will be difficult to reconcile with the systematic and follow-up and the possibility of a clinical follow-up of patients. It's just that you can follow up, and that you know something, that makes these programs so unique. The protection of privacy is important and safety and consent is important. But it must also be allowed to see the utility and the need. That is why I would like to say that we will continue the important work done in the Mammograph programme and in the Cervixscreaeing programme. We want the samples taken to be preserved and used for the benefit of future women. I think most women who have been on these programs, want. They almost take it for granted that it is. But the challenge now is how to obtain this consent, and how to find the solutions that will enable us to continue the programmes. The Cervixscreening programme provides information on 1.3 million women. It is important to clarify that this is not about physical tests, but it is about test responses. 90 pst. of these test samples are negative. Follow-up every three years, with a further reminder, allows many to participate and participate in the programme. Many lives are therefore saved that way, because you can deal with the problem early. Mortality has been reduced by over 50 pst. it has been halved since the start of the programme in 1995. 79 pst. of all Norwegian women taking part on their own initiative after five years, which tells me that this has a major impact on the population. Of course, it is not good that the formal things are not in order, but this material is too valuable for it to be erased. That's why it's important and right now to review the rules, so that we don't have to do that in the future. But just as important to us in the working party fraction is that we take care of what has already been done. We hope that the Council of State will look into this matter further and find a good solution. The cancer register, as the case-rapporteur said, is one of the world's largest and oldest registers, and we should keep the job that needs to be done in view of the future women in this respect. The Data Protection Authority has required these relatively small sensitive data to be deleted. This means that the programme in its current form needs to be shut down. Will we, and can we afford it? Another suggestion in the setting is the question of the screening of colon and rectal cancer. It is the second most common form of cancer, and it is important that this type is also detected early. We know that this is a type of cancer that is suitable for screening, and we point out that the Health Directorate recommends a pilot project on it. We are waiting for the National Council for Quality and Priorities of Health to give advice now in June, and we hope that a rapid decision will be taken. So one of the most common cancers among men is bowel cancer. Based on what we know about men and their ability to seek medical attention, they're not as good as girls. They don't have those routines, they don't seek medical advice until the real symptoms come, and then they've often come a long way in the course of the disease. With such a screening it will be possible to capture these men early. Women are referred to for their 25-year-old studies — in the case of the cervix study — whereas men are therefore not as regular inpatients. Not everyone survives the disease, and I think it's very good that once again the focus is on relieving treatment and good palliative care. It happens very well, and very well planned, but there are unfortunately also deficiencies. When the Health Authority issues the overtreatment of long-term cancer where the outcome is given, it is a debate that I believe is not about priority, but about quality of life and dignity. So there's a discussion that professionally should be taken on a continuous basis. The fact that health professionals have good competence for the difficult conversation is important. I believe that in the debate on palliative care we need to focus on quality of life, and we need to focus on relief. Therefore, relief units, well-developed home care and hospital wards that are security bases are very, very important. Of course, the most important thing we can do in view of the development of cancer in the future is to try to prevent people from getting sick. We know a lot about how to avoid getting sick, even if we don't have the answers to everything. Smoking, diet and alcohol are some of the known factors that contribute to cancer. Not starting to smoke, we know can prevent lung cancer. So lung cancer was a cancer that was reserved for men, but it is growing among women. It's because women now have a smoking pattern, much more like what men had before. They start earlier, and they end later. This is why we believe in having prevention measures and putting in place good information practices in high school and in high school, but also actively using taxes are some of the means to prevent young people from smoking. Price and consumption belong together. So prevention is the very best, the most important and the easiest thing to do with. We can mention many other things that we have promoted during this great period, which take prevention into account, and the Interaction Reform is one of them. There we have many good and forward-looking thoughts about how we should prevent. At the same time, however, I fully agree with the rapporteurs that we need to research new methods, we need to repair, we need to deal with them, and we need to relieve them – all for the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3437	Cancer is a people's disease that affects about one in three in the course of life. So it can hit us all -- it hits someone like patients, many as relatives, or as acquaintances of people who get cancer. Of course, it affects most in the oldest age groups, but it also hits at random, down to the infant age. The treatment provision for cancer patients is world-class in many areas. We have to keep that in mind, because there are a lot of good treatments. In other areas, however, significant failures are often identified. This, together with the fact that we're getting more cancer, it's going to increase, is the main reason why we've promoted this proposal for a reinforced response to cancer. The previous Bondevik government, the Bondevik II government, established a cancer strategy six years ago. But just continuing the cancer strategy that we made at the time is not enough, in our opinion. That is why we have 19 different proposals in this document. In this room we sometimes have discussions that end up like this: but why didn't you do something about this when you were in government? Then I want to say that we made a strategy then, and we see that there is a need for renewal. Policy always evolves, therefore these new proposals. The 19 concrete actions will contribute to three things: improving the quality of diagnostics and treatment so that more people can be rescued, ensuring that new forms of treatment are developed and put into use, and contributing to the prevention of cancer. All of this is important. And of course, it's important to have a soothing treatment in the final phase when we know that we can't do more. In this area, as in quite a number of other medical areas, we have a raging development of new treatment methods. It gives patients new hope, and it gives us new opportunities to cure and save more people affected by cancer. Sometimes this challenges us with the priority debate we have, because sometimes it can be expensive in the beginning. It has not been given that all new forms of treatment should be seen primarily as a cost, but rather as an investment in health and quality of life. Often, a new treatment is gradually becoming more and more cost-effective, although the trial phase, the initial phase, is always expensive. I was in Memphis at the beginning of the Passover in connection with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. What we did there, which had nothing to do with security policy, was visit one of the world's leading children's cancer hospitals, St. Jude, which is based on the bulk of their funding collected. 70 pst. of the budget comes from there – a lot from research funds, almost nothing from insurance money. Their main focus is to work with the forms of childhood cancer where there are insufficient treatment protocols and where local hospitals cannot help. It's touching to be at such institutions, because children touch one more than maybe many other groups that are ill. But I also want to say that the volunteer organisation that is behind it, which is collecting money, collected more than $700 million last year to run the hospital plus 20 clients in some third-world countries that are involved in cancer treatment. It also says something about how strongly people feel, that they want to do something about cancer and get treatment. However, the hospital also shows that very much of the new treatment they provided was cost-effective. They do it at non-profit level and publish all the protocols. It helps to raise it further and also contributes to the creation of new types of medicines. I think it's important to include this, because when we're going to discuss priorities – and we're going to – priorities don't have to be a simple calculation of the price of a life, or how much things cost. Sometimes I feel that in such debates you think that because we see that something is expensive now, we shouldn't have it because it's so hard to take in, but the truth is that it can be the right way to the cheap and much better solutions in the future. Then it is also possible to prioritize in other ways. One priority has been given to the right. We are among the parties that have been shut up because we didn't want a dental reform where everyone would get cheaper dental treatment or free dental treatment after age 67, because we think it will reduce our ability to treat the most seriously ill. The attitude shows that there is a broad political consensus that we should have a reinforced response to cancer. However, there are different political views on how to ensure better health care, and this is reflected in the attitude. And then I'm still waiting for the matter where the government parties dare to do something other than just send matters to the government for further work. It could be that showing the will to lift something should soon be a wish from the big crowd. The ideal thing is, of course, to prevent cancer. Many general living rules make it less likely that cancer will occur, even though the extent of such general public health interventions has also been discussed. The other thing that matters is that it's possible to figure out if you're a cancer at an early stage. Screening is of great importance. Mass studies can be an important way of detecting cancer in the past and helping to save much more. Of course, it also creates dilemmas about scarce health resources, spending money on many healthy ones, and that it can be false positive findings. That's why it's important that we have a good discussion about when we're going to introduce screening, but we think that the time has come to do screening on intestinal cancer, which is very common today. 3,400 are affected every year, and 1,575 die every year of intestinal cancer in Norway. We know that when dispersal has occurred, this is one of the cancers that are difficult to treat and remove. 300 lives could have been saved, according to the National Centre for Health, which believes it is realistic that 20 pst. could have been discovered earlier and treated at a time when you could be cured. That is why we have proposed a pilot project. I record that the National Council on Quality and Priority of Health on 7 June submitted a recommendation on the implementation of a screening programme for intestinal cancer. The government's answer has been that they should take a closer look at it. We expect a step forward in this work on the part of the government and that they will be able to present a conclusion in the draft budget for the autumn. In the proposal we made in March, we pointed out increasing waiting times for diagnostics and healthcare in general. Only in Oslo have the waiting times for publicly funded research by the laboratory and X-ray institute increased from one to two weeks in 2007 to up to seven weeks in 2009. When people hear that they might be investigated for cancer, the most important thing is to get an answer as to whether they have cancer or not. The anxiety and the feeling that it is going to wait up to seven weeks to get the basic research done is really tough. There is a tough message to be given, and this poses not least a significant risk of cancer being detected too late, and it is therefore possible to experience death from cancers that could have been treated. I think it says quite a lot, what became known last week, that former labor party council Karita Bekkem and her husband had chosen to pay off the public diagnosis line, and that the investigation showed cancer. Then the Minister of Health and Health said it was a single case, that the patient had been wrong. I think that's a naive picture of how the health care system is. This is too often a case in point. The Health Authority published in May this year a report on the risk profile of Norwegian cancer treatment. Delays in diagnostics at different levels are described as the greatest risk of failure that costs patients life and health. These are not individual cases, but a systematic failure. Then you have to do something about it. But this doesn't comment on the government parties in this setting at all. Waiting times are also an important theme. I was amazed when I could read in Bergen's Official Journal this Christmas that one of the journalists had called and asked how long it was waiting for cancer treatment, because she had discovered that it was waiting for cancer treatment. The answer she had received from the Health Authority was that they would not specify waiting times for cancer treatment, because they would not give the impression that waiting times for cancer treatment were accepted. Reality does not disappear from not publishing it. Users will find it. Therefore, it is necessary to have publication of waiting times, so that patients are given important and correct information, which provides a basis for improving the offer, and also provides the basis for the fact that the freedom of choice we have given in relation to treatment actually has a real content. I hope the government parties will turn around and support our proposal in this matter, because it is one of the important things that can contribute to better cancer treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3473	I'm making an attempt with a bad voice. The proposals of the Right addressed today seem to have a broad consensus – that the treatment of cancer, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and not least research should be given high priority. I think it is very positive to note that more and more people are surviving cancer today – a total of 60 pst., while for example. in the 1970s was only 30 pst. Survivors. For persons under 50 years of age, survival rates are even higher, and Norway, together with Sweden, Finland and Iceland, has the highest long-term survival rate in Europe. This is a picture that tells us that development is moving forward happily, and that in Norway we are among the best in Europe in many areas. But on the other hand, the frequency of cancer increases, more people get the disease, and one of the reasons is that we are getting older and that the number of older people in the population is increasing. There are still many bottlenecks in the treatment chain that help many not to receive the treatment they need in time. One of the proposals we are considering today is prevention. It's important to stress that there's actually a lot one can do to prevent cancer. Our lifestyle, what we eat, exercise, smoke and alcohol – all of this affects the ability to get cancer. This is why prevention is very important and, therefore, interventions are among others. to reduce smoking among the population very important. 6700 out of over 41 000 cancer deaths in 2003 could be attributed to smoking. Free school fruit is another measure. Fruit and vegetables are important to make school a good learning venue and, at the same time, also important in a cancer prevention perspective. I record that the Norwegian Cancer Association believes and emphasises exactly school fruit as an important cancer prevention work – to facilitate good dietary habits in children. Interaction reform is a prevention reform, and all important cancer prevention measures must be linked to the implementation of the reform. Screening of colon cancer will also be effective prevention. It is now under investigation in the Directorate for Health about and how this could be implemented. In the first place, it is considered to start pilot projects in some counties before we might get it across the country. I hope that the conclusion will be that we can carry out screening of colon cancer in Norway as soon as possible. Diagnosis and rapid follow-up in case of suspicion of cancer are important and crucial for the success of the treatment in retrospect, in order to survive. It is also mentioned in one of the proposals, point IV. It must always focus on this, and I am glad that the Council of State in the letter attached to the matter is very clear and also in the mission document of the healthcare companies emphasises that measures are to be taken to reduce the waiting time for treatment. In the case of rapid follow-up in case of suspected cancer, there shall be no waiting time. Much can be done by a systematic review of the patient’s course, with a view to removing the bottlenecks. As an example, I can mention that at a meeting at the University Hospital of North Norway, I was briefed on the review of the patient course for patients with lung cancer. Originally, the time from the first suspicion, waiting time between the permanent practitioner and all the examinations to the x-ray, CT X-ray, MR and hospital entry to surgery was nine weeks. It's too long to treat lung cancer. The hospital managed to reduce time to less than half by making this more effective. It tells us that it is possible to achieve better quality for cancer patients through better organisation and systematic review of patient processes without costing more money when doing this systematically. The proposers have made concrete proposals to improve the treatment of cancer, and I am pleased to note that there is broad agreement to support most of the proposals. In five minutes, there is not much time to mention, but I have focused on two of the areas that I believe are very important in the context of cancer treatment. It is prevention – could help prevent cancer as much as possible – and it is diagnosis – early intervention and get started quickly, which can help you get successful treatment and survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3503	Cancer is a major public disease today. About every third person in Norway is affected by cancer during life, and approximately. Twenty-six thousand get the diagnosis every year. The cancer in Norway is increasing. The increase may be particularly related to higher average age. Several survive cancer and live with a cancer diagnosis, mainly due to better diagnosis and treatment. There are individuals who experience that their lives take a different way from those expected when they are diagnosed with cancer. The relatives are also in a state of shock. For society, the rise in cancer poses major challenges in terms of capacity, quality and organisation of health services. In the national strategy for the field of cancer 2006-2009, the objective was precisely to show how to meet the challenges of cancer in an offensive and holistic way. The strategy, now extended by two years, until 2011, contains national objectives and measures for prevention, screening, diagnostics, treatment, rehabilitation and mitigation. An important part of the strategy is that cancer prevention should contribute to reducing social inequalities in health. We have just been informed that the social health differences in Norway are increasing. It's alarming. Therefore, during this action against tobacco, healthy diets, radiation protection and physical activity, efforts to prevent cancer must continue. Provision should be made for an increase in treatment capacity as a result of an increase in the number of cancer cases. The quality of cancer care needs to be strengthened through the further development of quality management and increased research efforts. National standards of diagnostics and treatment are needed. Processes towards enhanced functional sharing should continue when documented knowledge shows that volume has a significance for quality. There is still a potential for improvement in the provision of rehabilitation after cancer treatment and for relieving patients who cannot be cured. There is a need to strengthen education, recruitment and staffing. The right-wing representative's proposal to step up efforts against cancer contains many concrete proposals on these issues. It is positive, and there is broad agreement on many proposals. What I miss in the draft representative is that one is just as concrete and clear on prevention. We know that between 30 and 50 pst. of cancer cases can be prevented. Good prevention measures are e.g.: to regulate fruit and vegetables in the school, which ensure a better diet for all children and young people. Why are the Right Adversaries of it? Diet has been shown to be significant for several diseases, including cancer. Having advertising restrictions or banning advertising for unhealthy food directed at children is another measure in this context. Using the charging policy to make unhealthy foods more expensive and healthy, such as fruit and vegetables, cheaper is another concrete proposal. Tobacco is a known risk factor for cancer. The imposition of restrictive measures against tobacco is a high potential for health benefits. There is also an increasing emphasis on the interrelationship between alcohol and cancer in the international professional community, so a restrictive alcohol policy is a cancer prevention measure. Skin cancer is also strongly increasing and among the most common forms of cancer in young adults in Norway. Therefore, looking at responses to the large increase in the use of solarium in young people is another concrete measure to prevent cancer. In this case, there will be a whole of 19 different points for an enhanced cancer effort. My assessment is that many of the suggestions are to open the doors. These are proposals for measures already adopted, or work is in progress with them, as the Council of State has done in its letter to the Committee of 21 May. Part of the proposals is the political disagreement about, as the representative Sonja Mandt did in his speech. Of course, when it comes to the proposal to publish information on waiting times for cancer treatment, we should not have waiting lists for cancer treatment and treatment. I would like to repeat that it is unacceptable that people have to wait for diagnostics and treatment for cancer. But when we know that it's equally full, we have to get data out, so we get to know this and learn from it. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State has warned that historical waiting lists should be published.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3522	Coal in the chest, diffuse pain in the stomach and headache are symptoms that create uncertainty, anxiety and fear. Many days seem to be long and demanding when they wait for hours for examination, waiting for examination, test results, operation or radiation treatment. A cancer diagnosis raises questions like: Am I surviving? Am I going to be okay? Cancer treatment affects a great many and is one of the major areas of our healthcare. Very many survive and get fresh, but unfortunately there are still many who don't. That is why we need to develop further and improve the treatment offer, and therefore the Christian People's Party supports the good proposals that have been made. Several of the proposals here today are to be confused with the recent risk points in the Health Authority report on the ‘Risk image of Norwegian cancer treatment’. It is concluded that the level of risk in Norwegian cancer treatment is too high. Reducing the level of risk will lead to faster diagnostics, fewer serious complications and better quality of life for many patients. When it comes to making a diagnosis, there are examples, unfortunately, that references are being lost and that test responses are not being followed up. The Ministry of Health considers that the Ministry of Health and Welfare must assess the Authority’s requirements in the waiting period guarantee. Health supervision considers that the level of risk can be attributed to the management of regional and local health businesses. It is essential that failure results are used in the quality work of hospitals. Another risk area in the report is mitigating treatment, in particular when municipal health services are to assume responsibility for the patient after hospital stay. Failure to transfer competences between levels of healthcare is particularly prominent. In the debate on health priorities, over-treatment of long-term cancer patients is also a topic. But I also agree with the representative Sonja Mandt that this can be about good professional treatment, because overtreatment can distort good treatment. In the past, the Christian People's Party has proposed a life-help plan, with a number of measures to strengthen the provision of relief in the final phase of life, including: for cancer patients. One of the proposals currently under consideration concerns the link between volume and quality. It is important for surgeons to perform many similar operations. They get safer and better the more they operate. The Council of State refers, in its reply to the Committee at this point, to the work done in all four regional health establishments. That's good. However, when low volumes of cancer surgery are developed by the Health Authority among the main risk factors, it is necessary to look at it a little more — slightly in addition to the individual regional health services. They believe that there is a need for a national status of cancer groups with the lowest volumes of cancer surgery in all hospitals in Norway. The proposals to ensure transparency on the results of quality measurements, including comparison between hospitals and units, and to publish information on waiting times for cancer treatment are now supported by the Health Authority. It is strange that cancer treatment at this point should be distinguished from other treatments offered on the Free Hospital Choice website, which was also attended by the representative of Solberg. Medical developments are fast and new treatments and medicines are being developed. Nevertheless, relatively little experimental treatment is taking place in Norway, with cancer treatment being tested for the first time in humans. There are ethical challenges to testing because some people may be in such a desperate situation that they may not understand what treatment involves and have too much hope of what it can result in. Information related to participation or non-participation should therefore be strengthened, inter alia. through information and guidance systems. Today's debate shows the need for continuous quality work in the field of cancer. Christian People's Party also meets the government's efforts. As we have heard from several representatives here today, the government is obviously working with all these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3550	Through the National Cancer Strategy, which came in 2006, the government has facilitated a comprehensive and long-term follow-up to the cancer area. Prevention is an important part of the strategy. Interaction reform is leading the way in strengthening prevention work in municipalities. The review of the reform showed that there was a cross-political consensus on this. Effective tobacco action is the single effort that will have the greatest impact on the incidence of cancer. The Ministry will now start work on a new national tobacco strategy for the period 2011–2015. Patients who are referred to specialist healthcare services with a suspected cancer should be promptly addressed for evaluation and investigation. The 2010 mission paper states that regional health businesses should take action to reduce waiting times for investigation, diagnosis and treatment. The Committee points to the need to strengthen the provision of relieving treatment, in particular alleviating treatment for children. Health undertakings shall have good access to palliative care and care. The Health Directorate shall review the national guidelines for palliative treatment and assess whether children’s needs should be addressed in particular. As many people have been here today, the Health Authority has recently presented a risk report on cancer. In this context, there has been a desire to publish waiting times for cancer treatment. Time is now ripe to publish waiting times from the Norwegian patient register, so that patients can see developments in waiting times. With a new, identity-identifiable register, the Health Directorate will be able to publish historical waiting times in the cancer field, but the work will take some time. The report concludes that the level of risk in Norwegian cancer treatment is too high, inter alia. in the case of investigational logistics – which may result in a delay in diagnosis. There is reason to take the analysis of the Health Authority seriously and to use it in further efforts to improve cancer treatment. Like the Committee, the government is concerned with the quality of the treatment offered to cancer patients. Therefore, regional health establishments have been given a mandate to review which units perform cancer surgery in different cancers. At present, nine national action programmes have been developed with treatment guidelines for cancer treatment, and eight new ones are planned during 2010. Since 2003, we have had a national system of quality indicators in the specialist health service. These are public and therefore available to patients and health professionals. It is constantly working to develop these further. The Health Register project, with the establishment and modernisation of central health records and national, medical quality records, will provide us with better data to measure quality, as a basis for quality improvement, research and development of quality indicators. There has been a recent debate on priorities. This debate is very important. But it is important to clarify that people should be confident that they will receive good treatment even in the future. We still have to be among the best in health care in the world, but we still have to give priority. The Health Directorate has provided priority guidance for 30 disciplines. Prioritisation criteria are important, but simple criteria cannot cover all situations. Therefore, we need to focus more on open priorities through open processes to ensure equal assessment and equal treatment of patients. National advice on the quality and priority of healthcare is intended to be such an area for open discussions. The government is focussing on prevention and improved quality and competence at all stages of the patient’s course. This will be the focus of the government, including in the further work on cancer challenges. So finally, a clarifying comment: In response to the Committee, the Council of State stated that screening for end-and-end cancer was to be dealt with by the National Council in June. I can tell you that the Council postponed the reading until September.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3582	It seems like we are – what can I say – almost agreeing that it is an important matter, and as I also said in my post, a Health Inspectorate report shows that the risk is too great, and that the potential for improvement is significant. We hear here from several of the positioning parties, including from the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen, that there is a great deal of agreement on what is in the matter, and that the area has a high priority. The question then has to be: When will the interest and this high priority give impetus when you do not want to support a single proposal? Does the Council of State or others at all not agree with any of the proposals, and what does it take for the red-greens to support one of the 19 total proposals to improve the treatment of cancer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3589	Through the cancer strategy presented in 2006, the government presented the long-term lines for our focus in cancer treatment. Then, every year through the state budget and in other contexts, the priorities set by the government are set out. As I understand the many proposals contained in that report, and the proposal raised in this Chamber, most of the proposals are covered by the work being done by the government. We will continue to have a strong focus on better treatment methods in the area of cancer, ensuring that we get more knowledge through the newly established health records, and, I think it is important, as many people have pointed out, that we take into account the risk and vulnerability analysis that the Health Inspectorate has done, in order to help improve cancer treatment. That will be the government's focus in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3594	This government has reduced the purchase of laboratory and x-ray services, increasing the waiting time for diagnosis. It's the government's responsibility. At the same time, the government will not allow patients to know what is the expected waiting time associated with both diagnosis and treatment of cancer. What is the reason why the government will only publish historical figures related to waiting times in this area, but not let the patient know what is the expected waiting time, even though everyone knows that there is actually an expected waiting time here, as it is possible to publish here and now, as one does for other diseases?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3599	In the case of waiting times in cancer treatment, as I said in my post, the time is now ripe for publishing the historical data. In the case of cancer treatment, it is important to receive timely treatment and there should be no waiting time for cancer treatment. I think our focus must be that we start the treatment right away. And then the historical data could give us answers as to whether we succeed in that. If we do not succeed in this, we need to take immediate action to get treatment started, instead of waiting for a report to see how long the waiting period is in the future. I think the government's main priority will be to avoid that there will be waiting times in cancer treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3606	The Council of State was involved in prevention and also mentioned the Reform of Cooperation. My concern before we have an interaction reform is that we now see that the hospitals and the specialist health service are terminating very many of their offers. They wind up whole departments, they reduce the number of beds, and they print patients out earlier. In many ways, municipalities face a situation where they have to take over a large part of the specialist healthcare service. And they get formidable problems. How do the Council of State and the Government think that municipalities are going to be able to get an offensive in terms of cancer prevention, too, when they don't get a clear explanation of either responsibility, division of tasks or funding until maybe a few more years have passed? It's a huge challenge we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3613	I understand that the Committee debated the cooperation reform in this Chamber a short time ago and that there was a great deal of agreement on the main features of the cooperation reform. There is no doubt that the cooperation reform is a major reform, and it will have to take some time to get all the pieces in place. And then there are many places that have established good interaction arenas between hospitals and municipalities, and I think it's just along the lines that you can get good cooperation between municipalities and hospitals. In some municipalities, major steps have been taken to meet some of the challenges we have pointed out in the cooperation reform, and municipalities have been partly strengthened in order to be able to contribute to the prevention field, as the government has put some money into starting a work related to the cooperation reform. The county councils also contribute something there, together with voluntary teams and associations, but it is a big challenge to get the whole interaction reform in place, which I understand is that the Stortinget is invited to participate in further work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3620	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3623	Health policy is about quality of life, life, life and death. It's about care, care and treatment, complicated technological interventions, the willingness to research and develop, and it's about faith and hope for a better life. Former Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad received a letter in 2006, which illustrates in a very good way our idea of developing a co-financed healthcare service. The man wrote: «I'll be 86 tomorrow and I'll be fresh and healthy – thanks to four titanium joints from the Diakon home and an amazing new lens from Ullevål. I think only the right leg has cost the state approx. $800,000, thank you for that! Now go without a stick and enjoy life with 11 grandchildren and one great-grandchild." This letter primarily tells what our social model means to individuals, but also brings to mind how the offer would have been in a private economically controlled healthcare system. Is it likely that the oldest of the old would have received a private health insurance? In that case, would the man have the money to afford it? It has been thought-provoking to follow the health debate in the United States. They spend most of their money on health around the world, and they have many excellent environments in cancer research, which many have developed in today's debate. They have many good doctors and experts, but the distribution of offers is disastrous. It has been one of the main issues of President Obama, to which the private actors sounded a warning. It is a characteristic of Norwegian society that the cleaner and the director are treated in the same hospital. Such a policy development has been lost. This is and will be the goal of the Workers' Party for the future as well. Then we are fully aware that it is not only useful to show that we have one of the world's best health services. We have to be open all the way to better organise and find new solutions when needed. This, too, was the basis for the cooperation reform. Critical voices in the health sector are both good and necessary, because, in fact, there is a lot that can and should be improved, but also because it shows that people care about our common health care system. We need to use wisdom and our human and financial resources, so that we both prevent health problems better than today, and so that we strengthen health services and create the maximum possible security for people around the country. We must have modern health services that are experienced and where absolutely everyone is seen and respected. Then there will always be a need to stop and make sure that both health care and politicians actually contribute to reducing social differences in health care. We should be able to do that without creating unnecessary insecurity among patients as well as the rest of the population. Here, of course, we as politicians, but not least the health authorities, have a special responsibility. When the right-hand side has focused on cancer today, it gives us the opportunity to discuss a topic that concerns a lot of people. It provides both government, professional authorities and growth with the opportunity to make developments visible in this area and to see what are the professional and political strategies for the future as well. That's good. Cancer is a serious disease that affects more and more people. Cancer patients and other seriously ill people should be treated promptly and well. The recent debate on the prioritisation and use of costly and advanced treatment is part of today’s modern health system. Ethical dilemmas are part of the same thing. I think it is very important and right that the Minister of Health has clearly rejected the fact that a ‘maximum price discussion’ linked to individual patients should lead in such a debate. Sometimes difficult balances have to be made, but the overall picture is that there is hardly any place in the world where you are guaranteed proper treatment to the same extent as in Norway. And our ambition must be that in the future, too, we in Norway should be at the forefront of using new treatment methods and opportunities, and that you will receive good treatment no matter what your economic and social status is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3657	We live longer and longer, and an important condition to be able to enjoy living longer is that we can get needed health care when the need arises. Because with increasing life expectancy, the chances of getting sick are also increasing, and we know that the older we get, the more likely we are to develop cancer. In the same way that tuberculosis, or consumption as it was hot on the mouth of the people, hit many people about a hundred years ago and torn away people of their best age, is well cancer of our time's most terrifying disease. If we hear of close friends or relatives who have cancer, our empathy is aroused, while we do have an inner horror of pain, suffering and death. Cancer is a disease that hits blindly. If you stand high or low in society, you don't get away. Even our dear King has had the diagnosis. The research has brought us closer to the answers to the causes of cancer. We know far more now than before, but we can't say that we've solved the cancer riddle. The BCG vaccine and the pirquet test gave us control of the tuberculosis, so it was almost eradicated here in the country for a period of time. But increasing globalisation and migration have made it necessary for us to be on guard again. I guess there is little that indicates today that we are facing the same type of solution in the case of cancer. The causes of cancer are many, and both heredity and different environmental factors appear to occur when uncontrolled cell growth or cell division occurs. Whether it's a benign tumor that stops growing after a while, or a malignant that continues to grow, appears to be part of the lottery of life. We know that malignant cancer cells can be transported through the bloodstreams and the lymphatic system and thus spread and form new tumours, or metastases as it is called, elsewhere in the body. Cell poisoning, hormone treatment, radiation treatment and surgery are the most common treatments for cancer, and predictions are best if the previous cancer is detected. Every third Northman will have the diagnosis cancer some time in his life. And about 26,000 people spend each year on what the Cancer Association calls the cancer journey, a journey that almost reverses the situation of life on their heads, and that affects family life, work, school, and economics. This important input made by the Cancer Association in the context of the treatment of the Interaction Reform must be taken most seriously into further work on improving the process of treatment and the necessary interaction in our healthcare system. The booklet is full of factual information, patient stories and suggestions for a number of improvement points, which will benefit far more than cancer patients. Cancer patients and their immediate family and relatives come into contact with large and diverse parts of our public welfare system. There is a need for a comprehensive process to focus on individuals — ranging from changing attitudes at the human level to changing treatment chains and funding systems. Today we are witness enough that many people experience a great deal of disclaimer and a system that allows sick people and their relatives to experience being caste balls in the system. But of course, it's also doing a lot of good and groundbreaking work. What's important is to emphasize that we're all unique individuals. We're not just a number in a row. We're not just a diagnosis. We're not just a breast, a gland or a sick organ. We are people with thoughts and feelings, and we all have families and friends who are affected when the disease strikes. I have on several occasions brought forward the hospice philosophy with its holistic human vision. We know that there are ideological opposites to the establishment and operation of such units, but I have a hope that we could all agree that the very philosophy behind it, namely the approach to the whole human being, should be superior. In my opinion, it's only when the patient and the patient's best that's in focus, that interdisciplinary and interaction gets a real content. It's about quality of life even when you're sick – and maybe especially then. In this case, the opposition promotes several important proposals in order to strengthen its response to cancer. I want to draw up a couple of important relationships. When we visited MD Anderson in the Progress Party, it was, among other things, positive their approach to alternative and complementary treatment that struck us. We know that about half of the cancer patients are referring to such treatment. It is important in relation to the patient’s experienced quality of life. It should therefore form an important part of the healthcare professionals’ obligation to provide patient and caregivers with good information about different methods. There is therefore a need to strengthen the knowledge base in this field as well. So I said initially that we're living longer, and that means that more people are at risk of getting cancer. It is therefore frightening when we lack research data on the elderly who get cancer. 85 pst. of all cancer cases, males over 55 years of age and 76 pst. in women. Exclusion of older people from research protocols leads us to know far too little about how older people tolerate treatment and respond to different methods. We know, for example. that many men die with prostate cancer, but they do not necessarily die of prostate cancer. Substantial changes are needed here, so that priorities can be made on a evidence-based basis rather than on an age scale. We need a reinforced response to cancer, and the proposals that are being promoted here today are good in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3685	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3689	I feel that in the debate there is a great deal of agreement on much of what the Right has addressed in this proposal. But nevertheless, you also feel that the government parties may be trying to sub-communicate that it has actually been proposed quite a lot new in the cancer area, as both those working in the area and those affected by cancer experience as very important. They don't feel like one knocks open doors, but that one actually addresses completely significant new issues, which one expects to have a political clarification on. We are pleased that we have received support from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party for many of these proposals. In some areas, the Committee and the proposal have already moved the policy. The proposal that those who were not allowed to receive cervical cancer vaccines in the seventh grade last year should also be given the opportunity to receive vaccines this year – which the Right immediately picked up – has finally been followed up, and a majority is in favour of it. We have had a partial impact on more transparency in waiting lists in this area, even though the government parties have so far only moved to be open on historical numbers, and not on forecast. Then there has also been a positive development through the note about hospice, where one has experienced in the past that there has been a clear ideological difference, in which the red-green parties have only talked about relieving treatment internally in the health care system, but now finally is on a note that also points out that hospice can be a good alternative outside the normal health system, and that is very positive. It would have been interesting to get the state council's briefing on what the status is now related to securing the data in the Cancer Register – i.e. the existing data in the Cancer Register, especially in relation to the cervical cancer register – for the future, in relation to what possibilities it is within today's legislation to take care of it. Helga Pedersen drew up a scare image related to a privately run health care system. One has to travel far to find that scary picture, because there is not – at least not as I know – any party in Norway that is in favour of this model. When, in the same sentence, the Norwegian system almost makes an infallible system, the report of the Health Authority on the situation in the Cancer Register is in quite stark contrast, and not least to the situation we saw with the former Labour Party Council Karita Bekkemelm, who had to purchase private services to obtain diagnosis in this area. That's what's happening. This government is responsible for giving a more and more classed health care service in Norway, where those with good finances buy themselves out of longer and longer public cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3702	Up to several government representatives say that Norway has about the world’s best healthcare system. And we have a very good health care in many areas, I totally agree with that, especially maybe within the very acute. None of us are afraid that we will not be hospitalized quite quickly if we fall on the street, break the leg, etc. In recent years, however, the Health Authority has produced quite a number of alarming reports. Let me just clarify someone, so that there should be no doubt on my part – and also be said in this room – that although much is good, there are actually many enquiries coming from different groups of patients, who say the opposite. Let's take the rush, where the waiting time has increased dramatically, with over 4,000 in line. There is almost no overall treatment, say the drug addicts, the addicts, even. Psychiatric health: We are on top of coercive treatment in Norway in relation to other countries. In these days, treatment basins and physiotherapy are outpatient in a number of hospitals. Physiotherapy services have been given a new funding scheme initiated by the government, which has now led to long waiting lists for chroniclers. Voluntary health services, including in the field of child protection, are on their way out. All twelve institutions were closed last year, and we don't know if there'll be any more this year. There is currently an uprising in Sogn and Fjordane, because they talk about cutting down food supplies, emergency services and even local hospitals. There are major problems related to mistreatment, with unfortunate incidents in our hospitals. There are a number of issues currently under consideration in the Committee in this area. Safety is important for patients, but it is important for everyone, absolutely everyone. And for all these groups that are in contact with big business representatives – we are, after all, all representatives of these – it is not that we have the world's best health care in all areas, I just have to point that out. I feel that we don't have that, although a lot is good and the employees make a formidable effort. In the case of cancer, the government has had a cancer strategy earlier, and there is no less than the Cancer Association that has repeatedly called for the implementation of the government's cancer strategy. Now let's not get a new cancer strategy that becomes nice words on paper. In fact, we need to have a sequence of actions, that they can be implemented, and that they are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3713	I feel the need to take the floor after listening to Helga Pedersen. She obviously does not have complete control over the consequences of her own government policy. A recent SINTEF report shows that sales of health insurance have increased by more than 100 pst. from 2006 to 2009. Thus, more and more dare not take the chance that the health care system should be set up in the event of injury or disease. Worse still, the number of people buying out of the health queue has increased by 140 pst. from 2006 to 2009. Government policies have been very effective in creating a two-part health society. It is therefore strange to hear Helga Pedersen warn against a health system that she herself has been involved in creating, even here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3720	I received a question from the representative, Bent Höie, about the status of the Cancer Register and the ambiguity associated with the storage and storage of data. In this respect, I would like to refer to the Minister of Health's letter to the Committee, where a statement has been made. I would also like to say that the Minister of Health is now working on the management of the situation and has had contact with the Data Protection Authority. For my own part, as the Data Protection Officer, I would like to say that it is important when we keep personal data, that we follow the rules laid down. I think that's a fundamental prerequisite for trust that our systems will keep large amounts of data. But then it's always like when you're working on privacy, you're going to have to consider different societal issues against each other. I hope that the dialogue between the Minister of Health, the Ministry of Health and the Data Protection department will allow us to find solutions in the matter that help us to make use of the data collected, so that we can still have good and active cancer research in Norway, for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3729	I just want some closing thoughts about what has come up. I think it's right that one should not accept, as the Health Authority says, that logistics is the plug in the system. We've done a lot of things to fix this and get the system to talk to each other. Health networks, journal access, getting the systems to talk better together are some of the logistics that the Health Authority is also asking for. So it's very important that it first of all takes hold of and is cleaned up. Then I also want to mention what Per Arne Olsen's representative spoke about, stem cell research. It's very important, and I didn't get that in my post. But it is clear that research, especially in stem cells, is important. And then I want to deal with the two-part health system, which is now at the bottom of the debate. Our main thing is that we want a public, good health care and fight social differences. And then we have private providers that we use in many places. But our ideology is a good public health service. Many people buy insurance, as mentioned here, but there are also a lot of companies that buy for their employees. There's not as many individuals as it sounds like, there's a lot of businesses. The challenge, of course, is that if we don't get the good public health service that we fight every day to get, many will seek other solutions in despair over waiting and not good enough offers. But our goal is the good offers, and I believe that we are able to organize well for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3742	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3758	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3767	Today, the size deals with proposals from representatives for better legal certainty for patients. The proposal relates to specific legal aspects of the large and important complex of patient safety, namely that patients who have been asked by the Health Care Professional Act § 55 and the Patient Rights Act § 7-4 to assess the existence of a breach of the Health Care Professional Act are not currently to be regarded as a party to the case and are therefore neither given access to the documents of the case nor have the opportunity to appeal against the Health Care Authority’s decision. It is important that all aspects of patient safety are raised, so that we can improve patient safety and save many lives and avoid much suffering. I would like to begin by stressing that an overall committee believes that the work on improving patient safety is a major and important area of health policy and should be given priority. The Committee has had open consultation, where the FFO of the disabled has promoted the organisation’s views. The JRC has expressed to the Committee that the proposal for a representative meets some of the shortcomings and weaknesses of patients and their relatives in matters affecting possible violations of duties under the Health Care Act. Furthermore, the JRC has stated that lack of transparency and access to justice are a problem of legal certainty. An overall committee emphasises that the issue of the patient’s party position in such cases, inter alia: need to be assessed in relation to general legal perception, legal certainty, trust in healthcare, protection of confidentiality-related information, privacy, legal security aspects for healthcare professionals and the proper use of resources. The Committee refers to letters from the Minister of Health and Health of 12 May 2010 and is pleased to note that patients and relatives will be heard and taken seriously. The Committee notes that the Council of State has entrusted the State Health Authority with the task of setting up a call-out group to strengthen the supervisory review when serious incidents have occurred in the specialist health service. A single committee believes that a working group should be set up to review the practice of current legislation, including an assessment of the need for further statutory rights of complaint and opinion and greater transparency of documents. The Committee considers interventions that improve patient safety to be important and calls for a review of the practice of current legislation to be given priority. Health services are available to heal, relieve and comfort. Despite this, there are too many people who experience adverse events, many who are suffering pain, permanent loss of function, and there are many who die. That is why this is a major issue for healthcare and a major issue of health policy. The knowledge base on adverse events in Norwegian healthcare is not good enough. We do not have good figures from Norway on the damage and death caused by health services. The OECD has studied unavoidable deaths in health services and found that about 5 000 deaths in Norwegian health services may belong to this category. So we don't know exactly how many unfortunate events happen in Norwegian healthcare, but we know that there are many. We don't know how many people die, but we know that there are many. At least half of the unfortunate events can be prevented. Then we need to use available knowledge and research to change this. Patient safety action could save many thousands of lives in the coming years. I look forward to the widest possible cooperation to realise this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3788	There was a paradigm shift in the health and social field in Norway in the 1990s. From a problem perspective with a focus on the negative – on the lack and on what makes people sick – we got a resource perspective that demands what makes people healthy, and what abilities each individual has to move towards a better health and a life with meaning for themselves. In other words, it is a more optimistic model that has faith in the individual’s self-maintenance and ability to master and develop. We received the Patient Rights Act as a consequence, which was adopted in 1999. As a patient, one is no longer a piece in the hands of specialists, but has clear rights under the Patient Rights Act to be thoroughly informed, could be re-assessed and, on a qualified basis, could give his consent to treatment. This is also followed up by regulations and circulars highlighting user involvement and self-determination as rights at system and individual level. The right to an individual level was also laid down in the law gradually. Last year, the change entered into force for persons who lack consent and who oppose the necessary health care. Fortunately, the law requires reliable measures to have been tried before going to use force and force. This is, of course, a major challenge with the efficiency requirements of the healthcare system facing today, and with a large number of nursing staff in small fractional positions. Confidence measures require gradual convergence and the patient is confident that what happens is transparent and recognisable, thus reducing the resistance to treatment. The distribution of healthcare is in an interaction between political and economic governance, medical judgement and legal control. The rating fixation changes the dynamics of this interaction. Legal control is strengthened through complaints and possible cases before the courts. Persons with legal rights will have to be given priority before patients who can also be helped, and this is precisely one of the purposes of providing certain patients or patient groups with a legal requirement for services. But where do patients’ rights stand today? We are all familiar with the waiting list issue, but it is not close to explaining why only 87 out of a total of 10,951 deadline breaks were reported to HELFO in the second tertiary in 2009. In other words, barely eight per million of those who did not receive treatment within the deadline reported. What are the causes here? The size is the legislative assembly and the granting authority, and it says that we should get little involved in individual matters. Despite that, it is often the fate of individuals who take much of our time in everyday life, and which makes us both agitated, upset, happy or sad. That's part of the ombudsman role. I have two issues that I want to raise, which highlight the importance of strengthening patients' legal certainty. The first concerns a man who suffered from periodontitis, and based on the information I have, did not receive a proper treatment of a dentist who even deleted with major drug problems. The dentist burned all the records and escaped from the country. Back there was a toothless patient. He was then informed by the authorities that the dentist was a private practitioner, so he had to go to civil proceedings for possible damages. The patient was in contact with the county council, county council, department, directorate, patient injury student and civil ombudsman without being able to get help. Now, eight years after he was referred to this dentist, and four years after the dentist left the country, the county council admits that the dentist had a contractual relationship with the county. The patient then tries to raise the case again, but is informed that the case has expired. I asked the Council of State in writing on 25 March this year about this relationship, and I am still waiting for an answer. Another tragic story is a meeting of the Progress Party fraction had with a parent killer with a boy who had suffered a brain injury, probably as a result of an operation. I invited the members of the Health and Care Committee to this meeting on 8 June, but it was only the Progress Party that had the opportunity to meet them. Here we have two parents who deliver a seemingly healthy boy who has problems hearing poorly because of a fluid build-up in his ear. Even the day after the operation, parents notice that something is wrong, but they do not get the help they feel the boy needs. Eight months after the operation, the parents ask that MRI be taken by the boy's head, because they suspect that he has suffered brain damage during the operation. The case is in the Patient Damage Study, which gives the specialist a limited mandate, so that the boy is never examined. The parents go many rounds with the hospital, which does not admit that something has gone wrong. The parents are trying to get a police report, but the police refer to the Health Department. The Health Authority will not raise a case because the purpose of raising a case is that the health service should learn from the error, and since the incident was four years behind in time, it is not relevant. Parents demand the legal certainty of their boy. It has been established that the boy has suffered a severe decline in development in the near post-three year olds. It was a crying father who told us that we were the first authorities to want to see the boy. It seems that the system is for the sake of the system, and not for the patient. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health is now opening up to ensure that patients and relatives are able to obtain party rights and make their contributions. We are waiting in excitement for how to ensure this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3811	The background to this proposal is the contact with very many patients, patient organisations and patient representatives, who often have the same story to tell, namely that patients and relatives have often experienced on their own that something wrong has happened. Of course, a lot of people don't have the medical expertise to be able to define what's wrong for themselves, but they still have a feeling that something's wrong. And that's not so unnatural, considering that the patient himself and the patient's relatives are the ones who know him best and notice if anything isn't the way it should be. At the same time, history very often shows that the kind of feedback to our healthcare has not been taken seriously, has not been followed up, has not been investigated, but in retrospect it has often been found that it is the relatives and the patient who are right – something wrong has happened. At the same time, you feel that you are in a system when the Health Authority finally gets connected, so you are not a party to the case. You do not initially have the right to have access to the file. You don't initially have the right to, for example: to request that the assessments of the County Medical Officer be assessed by the National Health Authority. For this health care professional and authorisation, one has e.g. no possibility to appeal against a decision that the Health Authority considers that they should retain the authorisation, further to the State Health Care Professional. Of course, this is experienced by patients and relatives as a system that is completely different from what they experience in all other areas of society. Therefore, in the Right, we believe that it is now time to change this and follow up on the recordings that have been made, both by the patient representatives, by the Joint Organisation of the disabled and by many relatives. That is why I am very pleased that an overall committee is so clear that this is an area where the government will continue to work, and that a working group will be set up to work on a proposal in this area. However, when we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, choose to promote a concrete proposal in this matter, it is to indicate that we have taken a stand, that a system should be set up to give patients and relatives the role of party in a case. But of course, we are very pleased that an overall committee is behind the creation of a working group. Here, an important breakthrough that I think is going to be of great importance by the fact that patients will experience that they are getting a completely different legal certainty in our health system from what they have today. I take this up with me the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3826	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3829	The draft representative shall submit proposals for amendment to ensure that the patient or the authorised person is considered a party to cases where he has asked the Health Inspectorate to assess the violation of health professionals. Representatives also ask that the amendment ensure that the patient or the representative of the patient has the right of access to the file and the right to appeal against the decision of the Health Authority. We are more members of the Health and Care Committee who have been in contact with relatives who have experienced the loss of their closest after accidents and slurrings in connection with hospitalisation. It's very sad that such things happen, and it makes a lot of sense to hear how the relatives experience what has happened. Firstly, of course, it is unimaginable and painful to lose their closest ones, and especially since in these cases this could have been avoided by proper treatment and monitoring. Secondly, they describe the next experienced betrayal, that is, how those who are affected feel that the system does not take them seriously, and that they have to fight to be heard. I therefore understand the background to the proposal very well. Although the vast majority of patients in Norway today experience safe and high-quality treatment, there are errors and unfortunate health service events that lead to death and lasting damage. Work to improve patient safety is a major and important area of health policy to be given priority. In this work, it is important that patients and relatives are taken seriously. It is particularly important when there may have been errors in health care treatment. We have to recognize and appreciate the fact that patients and relatives in such cases often have substantial information to come with. Therefore, it is very good that the Council of State has entrusted the State Health Authority with the task of setting up an expression group to strengthen the supervisory review when serious events have taken place in the specialist services. In addition, the Council of State notifies that they are to introduce a probationary system for two years with the obligation to provide a warning to the State Health Inspectorate when serious events have occurred. The purpose of the creation of a printing group and the warning obligation of serious events is to contribute to a better and faster assessment of the serious events. In this way, the supervisory authority may quickly enter into dialogue with those involved and quickly obtain an overview of what has happened, ensuring a secure collection of relevant information. It is also particularly positive that a joint committee should be set up to review the practice of today's legislation. The working group shall assess the need for additional legal remedies and expressions and greater transparency of the documents. However, while complaints are being made in the future, it is all the more important that the State’s health authorities work to improve their own practices, so that fewer patients and relatives feel the need to complain about the decisions. The State Health Authority has a very central task in Health-Noreg. Thorough and accurate supervision of what is happening in hospitals and other institutions is a provision for a proper health care system. In order to ensure patient safety, it is important to strengthen the possibility of effective control by the Health Authority. The Council of State points this out in a letter to the Committee dated 12 May. It refers to the State Health Authority’s objective of reducing as much as possible differences in treatment in the state through clear, professional management of supervisory activities. It shall be done by means of clear instructions in procedural guides, better training, more guidance, a list of precedents and audits at county offices, etc. Putting patient safety on the political agenda I think we can't do enough. Now there have been positive proposals recently on patient safety. Among other things, today we can read about a proposal that has been sent out on a hearing that applies to health professionals eight hours before they go on duty. Patient safety is a work that must be done in several fields over a long time. But I think keeping a political focus on this is necessary to ensure progress and improve it. I thought it was very positive that the Right should present this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3848	It is an important and good proposal that the Right has made. I would also like to commend the case rapporteur, who, in my opinion, got very serious in this matter. There have been a number of recent headlines in the media about serious injuries and unnatural deaths in hospitals. This affects many. It affects patients, relatives, health professionals, the hospital, the police and the health services. It also affects the population and their trust in hospitals. Hospitals have traditionally been characterised by little openness, including: by virtue of hierarchical organisation, protection of one another and reference to professional secrecy. In recent years, there has been a raging medical trend. In some areas, margins have become smaller, advanced equipment and techniques require knowledge, and hospital departments have a higher rate of pace. Therefore, the work on patient safety is one of the areas that needs to be very high priority in order to ensure confidence in healthcare as a whole and in healthcare professionals. In several meetings I have heard from relatives who are frustrated and despaired at the meeting with the healthcare department after unfortunate and serious events have occurred. They say that they do not receive any complaints or concessions, information is withheld, they feel that the matter is covered and that essential information is omitted in reports and records, deadlines are broken, etc. Work needs to be done in many areas to prevent patients and their relatives from meeting healthcare in this way. The proposal we are discussing today relates to one of the areas that ensure that relatives can be heard and involved to a greater extent when mistakes and unfortunate events occur. This will contribute to a more open healthcare system. Substantial changes in health care attitudes must be made. It's human to fail. It's an illusion to think that as a health care professional, you can go through the world of work without that happening. In most cases, what may appear to be individual errors could have been avoided with better systems. There must also be transparency about unfortunate events, so that they are reported, so that feedback can be provided on what can be done to prevent it from happening again. Hospitals need to become learning organisations. When health professionals change attitudes to making mistakes, the threshold for complaining about patients and relatives also needs to be lower. This is requested by a lot of people today. Finally, I am also very pleased that a working group will be set up and that the whole committee is behind this. In addition, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3871	It is important that patients and relatives are heard and taken seriously. This is particularly important when someone may have been mistreated in the healthcare system. Health legislation is known as the Patient Rights Act that regulates patients’ rights, such as: the right to the necessary health care. The Health Personnel Act regulates the rights and obligations of health professionals, including the consequences of a breach of obligations for health professionals. This means that patients have an informative role primarily in cases against health professionals, often by being the person bringing the case to the supervisory authority. It is unfortunate that patients and relatives have felt neglected in some cases. However, this is not necessarily an argument that a new right of appeal should be established. The dialogue between health authorities and patients and their relatives is very important. There is reason to believe that access to justice may be less necessary if the individual procedures of the Health Authority for information and notification are followed. State health surveillance has a clear objective of reducing differences in treatment procedures in the counties. This shall be done through clear professional management of the supervisory activities. Clear instructions in procedural guides, training, guidance on individual cases and audits at county offices are some of the tools used to make the procedure more consistent. It is important that patients receive the treatment they are entitled to and that the treatment they receive is sound. In accordance with today's legislation, the State Health Authority shall give priority to the serious issues. It will require substantial increased resources to introduce rights of the parties with access to justice for patients. The establishment of access to appeals to the State Health Authority against decisions taken by the State Health Authority in the counties would lead to duplication of the amount of the case to the State Health Authority. It is important to give priority to instruments that can help ensure that supervision reacts as quickly as possible in the most serious cases, so that errors can be corrected as quickly as possible. As you know, the Minister of Health has taken the initiative of setting up a call-out group in the State Health Authority and an immediate warning obligation for the specialist health service of the State Health Authority when serious incidents occur. The removal team shall contribute to strengthening the supervisory review in case of serious incidents. The printing team quickly enters into dialogue with those involved and affected, and they can quickly get an overview of the course of events and obtain relevant case information. In line with the Committee's comment, the Minister for Health will also set up a working group to look at how legislation is being practised today. Such a working group should also assess whether there is a need for further statutory rights of complaint and opinion and greater transparency of documents. Finally, the representative Gåsvatn called for an answer to an unanswered question, which has been in the Ministry of Health and Welfare for some time. Of course I will take it with me and get it checked. With regard to the specific matter, it is not possible for me to give a specific response to the relationship with the dentist, but I can tell you that last year the Stortinget changed the law, I think, so that the patient damages also include private dentists. However, I have to come back to the specific matter when I have been checked by the Ministry of Health and Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3895	I thank the Council of State for checking the situation with regard to the question I asked on 25 March of this year, so that I can be told the man how it goes. He's been sitting toothless for almost five years. But my question to the Council of State is, how will the government ensure that patients are granted party rights, access rights and access to justice with regard to the proceedings of the Health Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3903	As I said in my speech, the Minister of Health has announced that she will set up a working group to look at how the legislation is being practised today. The Minister for Health has also said that such a working group should assess the need for further legal complaint and opinion rights for patients and greater transparency. When that working group is set up, it would be natural for it to work on the matter, and I expect the Minister of Health to make sure that the Storting properly informs about the conclusions she draws after that working group has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3908	My question is whether the Council of State can give any indication as to when this working group will be set up. When is it expected to come back with a case on this, and will patients' organisations be involved to get input to such a working group?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3913	I can't give a time frame for when that working group will be done with its work, but I expect – when the Minister for Health has announced that you want to set down such a working group – that it will not take that long. Then I am also aware that the Minister of Health has discussed the kind of issues with the patient organisations. I expect the Minister of Health to do so in the future, too, in relation to the specific issues to be discussed and which have been debated here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3920	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 4215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3938	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3947	This case concerns a proposal for a separate system of residence for people with developmental disabilities, one of which is to have sanctions against service providers, and it is about a review of the situation of people with developmental disabilities who are the subject of prison sentences in Norwegian prisons. The Committee agrees that people with developmental disabilities should be guaranteed good and should be offered equally to all others and that good arrangements for dealing with them are important. But the committee is divided into two when it comes to how to achieve it. In the same way as in the previous time similar proposals were treated, in 2006, there is a minority and a multiple in the setting. The party of progress and the Christian People's Party make up the minority, who will create an autonomous community. The other parties to the Committee make up the plurality. The majority believe that this is best addressed through existing enforcement arrangements, combined with a stronger focus on the sanctioning possibilities and supervision vis-à-vis the municipalities – and fortunately it is not the main rule – that do not follow the law and the intention of the law. The other parties will certainly present and deepen their views on the matter. In the Labour Party, and in the Government Party, we believe that the universal principle in this matter – just as in the design of society otherwise – should be superior in the supply of people with developmental disabilities. It's the universal and good arrangements that should apply, regardless of who we are. We'd rather have it than special arrangements. It's an important principle for us that we call about. The patient and user environment is now established in all counties. The system has been extended to include municipal health and care services, with special attention being paid to those who are unable to express their own service needs. The developmentists' own organization has always been very clear that they do not want a special order. In fact, during the hearings about this case, it appeared that they have a different attitude, but as we have understood, one is primarily, and as the most important thing, the fact that a set of measures has been taken against non-communities and that these methods of sanctions are strengthened. We believe that it is absolutely worth looking at, and that is why we believe, with the setting we have, that we are close to what the developmental organizations have been busy about, and that it will be the right way to go. Today, the county can intervene and respond to municipalities that do not comply with the law or what is the intention of the law. But in those cases, which, fortunately, are not the main rule, where we have unfollowed municipalities, we think it is important that the department looks at how a better one can follow up, for example. strengthening the means of sanctioning further, in order to comply with the law. In order for the enforcement system to work as we wish, it must also work well for the supervisory bodies. So to the question of who it is that is going to have sanctioning possibilities. We disagree that the ban should be sanctioned, as proposed by the proposers. The demand should address both general issues within its area and be able to help individuals. It may be through advice and guidance, it may be through information about rights, and it may be in other ways. Overall, the user needs and interests should be addressed. And the ban can help with questions or complaints to the appropriate body. That job is important if the order is to be done. But that's exactly why, in our opinion, it's contrary to what's meant by the law, to add these sanctions. We should be clear about this, and it is natural that it is the county or the supervision that has also been seen in the work of possible sanctions. We are dedicated to ensuring that people with developmental disabilities are provided with their needs and receive an offer that is consistent with the law and the intentions of the law. We have shown this clearly by asking the Ministry to assess whether sanctions should be strengthened. We can't accept that anyone doesn't follow up, and where it doesn't work well enough, we have to have tools to follow it up. When it comes to the second part of the proposal, to assess the reconciliation of people with developmental disabilities in prison, I refer to the work that the government has seen and that has been mentioned by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee. In the view of the majority, it takes care of the intention in the proposal. The position of the majority in the Committee is therefore that the first proposal, on its own system of residence, is not accepted, while the second proposal, on the conditions of residence in prison, is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e3973	For years I have been regularly contacted by those of the people with developmental disabilities who despair of their endless fight against the system in getting help and organization for their children. The papers also continue to have articles on the subject, as well as various inspections that have still pointed out the same thing. Developmentally disabled people do not get what they should legally have. The last example was in my municipality less than a month ago. Nursing homes that were promised for years to adults with developmental disabilities who still lived at home with their parents were finally completed, and they were ready for the relocation load when the municipality postponed their relocation due to a lack of funding for the operation. In the May 27 issue of Rome, one of those who would move in asks, ‘Am I not worth anything I, then, Mom?’ The Joint Organisation, FO, says in its consultation note that for many years they have been concerned about the quality of life and legal certainty of people with developmental disabilities. FO says that they have seen that many municipalities have little professional good offer – how low the competence is more the rule than the exception. In its note of consultation, the Norwegian Association for Devolved People states the following: ‘For a long time, it has been well documented that many people with a developmental disability have a poor life situation, they receive too little services and the quality of services is too weak.’ Legal certainty is absent and signs of positive developments in the field are difficult to find. It's been several years since I found that the system didn't work, and that these needed a separate agent who knows their rights, who knows where to go in the system, and not least – who has sanctions. In my view, that is one of the main problems of today's system, not just for those with developmental disabilities, but for all those who are struggling to get into the system. They are supported, but the agency that provides this does not have sanctioning powers, and therefore, in many cases, the attendance becomes zero. In Dagbladet on March 17th, we could read about the city halls that knew that the manager had made Nina pregnant with a developmental disability. The municipality left to report the attacker, and five years later she was abused again, by the same man. This case merges into the series of cases. I believe this shows that we need, once and for all, to ensure that the rights and security of those with disabilities are respected. In its letter of 12 May, the Council of State shows that both the County and the Health Authority have sanctions in the form that they can impose. Experience and feedback show that these arrangements do not work, as the majority of the Committee also refers to, and calls on the Ministry to assess whether sanctions should be strengthened. For a while ago, Trine Skei Grande had a very good post in this room, where she pointed out that we, as depositors, were to be representatives of the people. I try this every day, but the number of enquiries is overwhelming, and it is simply impossible to help anyone who makes contact. The Advance Party will now once and for all have its own representative in place, and that the Ombudsman will have the power to demand that injustice be corrected and can follow the case to the fullest extent possible, as the Christian People's Party also supports. The Progress Party has taken note of the vague wording of the Council of State as regards the developmentally handicapped son of judges in Norwegian prisons, and that the majority of the Committee agrees with this. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party believe that there is a need for concrete action and therefore promote proposals to this effect. I take up the proposals No. 1 and 2 which are in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4004	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4007	I would first like to refer to the statements made by the President-in-Office. It also represents in many ways what has been and is the Right View in this matter – although I have a very great understanding that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have ended up with a different conclusion, because these people are in such a situation that there is obviously a great need for attention to be paid to the lack of offers and the abuses that occur against people with developmental barriers in Norwegian society. I think that part of the disagreement is based on a different perception of what kind of representative is needed – whether one here sees a representative more of the model of the child ombudsman or gender equality ombudsman, who operates more like a national watchbitch that fits the overall strategic decisions, or an ombudsman who is present and meets the individual and helps to resolve the individual issues. From the Right, we believe that what this group primarily needs are representatives who can attend and solve the specific issues a meeting in everyday life towards a complex public welfare system. Then, in our opinion, the patient ombudsman model is the model that best fits, and an expanded patient and welfare model is what could solve the challenges. Splitting up at that level and having different ombudsman arrangements for different groups, we just think we'll make it even more complicated, because often one will have help both, for example. against health services, up against the municipal sector, social services and welfare management. And then it would be inappropriate to build up parallel ombudsman schemes with the kind of competence that in itself creates an even more complex public welfare system. That is why the Right in this case is based on a model in which we believe that we should develop the patient and welfare care system, while at the same time believing that one should strengthen the county council's ability to intervene in those cases where one believes that a local has not followed up the national law in this area. Providing the Ombudsman with a penalty option when based on the model of the patient ombudsman will be a new design, which does not fit into that scheme, and which will also destroy the good potential of this ombudsman system today to appear in reality as a door opener and one who finds the good practical solutions to the everyday problems of people with developmental disabilities and their relatives in everyday life. That is why we are voting in favour of attaching these proposals to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4018	The majority in the Committee therefore do not agree with the proposers that a separate ombudsmanship scheme for mental retardation is necessary. The proposal has been promoted before, and has been rejected. But there is no disagreement about the intentions behind the proposal. On the basis of a universal approach, we believe that it is not right to establish a separate ombudsman system for mental retardation, but that their interests are best safeguarded through existing patient and user representatives. I emphasise that the Council of State confirms in a letter to the Committee that the new system of patient and user representatives should be evaluated and that in the evaluation there will be a particular focus on how the system takes care of people who are at risk of being unable to express their own service needs. In addition, the Ministry is asked to assess whether the sanctioning options of the county and the health services should be strengthened in the event of a breach of legislation and a lack of follow-up by the local authorities, i.e. a real strengthening of the existing patient and user representatives. In the spring and winter, there have been a number of headlines in the media about assaults against mentally retarded, sexual assaults, with suspicions against public leaders and support contacts, where it is claimed that the cases have not been properly followed up, either by the police or by public authorities. This issue is also addressed in today's Dagbladet, a broad reference, where one of the researchers at Nordlandsforschung together with a study director at the Police University School in Bodø has produced a research report on the working environment and legal certainty for mentally retarded persons in sheltered enterprises. He concludes that there is a need for a wide-ranging review of the legal certainty of those with disabilities. The claim is that they are not properly taken care of in the legal system, the cases are not prioritised, there is a lack of competence and in criminal proceedings it is very difficult to get a conviction. I am fully aware that this is primarily a matter for the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice. But I would like to stress that after the answers we have been able to read in ours – after a review of eight cases in which the police have investigated reports of criminal offences, five have been hospitalised and two have been resumed – I believe that there is a very good reason to carry out a broad review of the legal certainty of the mentally retarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4027	Lack of legal security for people with developmental disabilities is a very serious political issue. It is important that this be seen on the national policy agenda. It has been established that municipalities often do not comply with the law in the field, and that matters are being trained. The absence of sanctions in the county is a problem, and effective sanctions are called for. People with developmental disabilities are entitled to a decent and good supply. It shall not be such that only those with a high level of resources are able to complain about the situation in order to secure the offer. One estimate is that there are still 300 prisoners in Norwegian prisons with undiagnosed developmental inhibitions. Many are not caught by the auxiliaries and are given the services needed to get a decent life. The centre party shares the concerns that are raised here. The proposal to establish an own mandate for people with developmental disabilities has been made in the past. Instead of doing this, the patient care system was extended to users of municipal health and care services. I note that the Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Impaired, NFU, on the hearing, made it clear that they have previously been against an own care for the disabled, because the substitution of diagnostic groups can stimulate the development of special legislation. The experience gained after the last time that the proposal for a ban was put forward is not particularly positive in the light of their experience. They think that the supervisory board is weak: supervision is directed towards relatively few relationships. It is rare that the quality of service provision is supervised. The main focus appeared to be procedure and written processing. Local authorities and specialist health services do not need to be instructed. Supervision of the same legal destinations does not indicate that the situation will improve over time. The NFU concludes that the resettlement scheme works, but that it does not work too well. They also believe that the order of business only works for those who themselves, or through their relatives, make contact. NFU wants, because the situation is as it is today, an owner with effective sanctions to ensure that people with developmental disabilities are also given legal rights. The Joint Organisation is also concerned about the quality of life and the legal security of people with developmental disabilities. They refer to figures from the National Environment of Competence on Developmental Obstacles to Up to 80 pst. by cases, exemptions from the legal requirement are granted, if necessary, to the level of competence of service providers working directly with users. Also, FO recommends the creation of a separate housing system for people with developmental disabilities, but not by means of sanctions. They also recommend a review of the situation of people with developmental disabilities who are sonar prison sentences. The centre party suggests that we should take seriously when representatives from the user group are so clear that the patient and user environment scheme, which is relatively recently created, is not working properly enough. The question is whether the answer to this question is to create an own ban on the disabled, and whether this should be allowed to give sanctions. The central party does not think this is the answer, please note that an owner's office for the developmental disability is a system that user organisations are basically opposed to, but as one that will operate because the existing one does not work well enough for this group. The centre party believes that we must now evaluate the existing system of patient and user accommodation first, as the Stortinget decided when she was introduced. The evaluation must have a specific focus on how the enforcement system takes care of people who are at risk of being unable to provide their own services. The centre party believes that the sanctions still have to be in the county and/or in the health department. In this case, the Committee also refers to the Council of State's statement on the work undertaken by the Ministry of Justice to facilitate the provision of housing for the disabled. In our view, this will be the intention of the proposal for a representative, II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4040	The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for its own representative for the people with developmental disabilities, as we have done in the past. The last time a similar proposal was being debated in Stortinget, the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled, the NFU, was negative to its own representative, as several previous speakers have pointed out. But they have turned the case around and now support the proposal. This says first of all that little has happened in recent years. Developmentally disabled people are a group that can promote its needs and causes in society to a small extent, compared to other people. In particular, there is reason to question whether legal certainty is being ensured. Another aspect that you might also point out is the low percentage of university graduates who work with people with developmental disabilities, only 20 pst. – in other words, very many unskilled. Several representatives have argued well for their views on joint representations. If this had worked, it would have been great. But the situation is today, legal certainty is not well enough. I think it's important that the NFU – who wants its own representative – do this by giving a very strong signal that something should be done now. When the evaluation of the new patient and user representatives is available, it is important, as many have been involved, to assess the extent to which they work on issues related to the development of the disabled. But instead of waiting for this evaluation, it's better, as I see it, to start at the other end, namely to set up a separate representative for the development of the disabled. Should it prove that the patient and user ombudsman regime is so good that it meets the needs of the developmental caregiver, these ombudsmen will also be merged. The situation is alarming at least today. Despite the fact that the county oversees services for those with developmental disabilities, the experience gained by the NFU at the consultation of the Committee focuses on relatively few aspects which have also been discussed by others. They consider that it is rare that the quality of services is adequately assessed. Instructions are not always followed up, and there is little improvement in services, even after several years. When unworthy and critical conditions are discovered, there must be someone who has the power and authority to do so immediately. In other words, legal certainty must be strengthened. Many relatives are very tired after fighting for their children and young people to have it safe and sound. For them too, there will be an extra security with a separate agent fighting for valuable services. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal that a review be carried out of the situation of people with developmental disabilities who are serving prison sentences in Norwegian prisons. In its reply to the Health and Welfare Committee, the Council of State points out that work has been carried out, among others: to ensure smaller entities for developmentally disabled persons in prison. This may be the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. On the other hand, it must be an objective to prevent persons with reduced mobility from committing criminal offences. I would like to believe that much of the prevention work is in the hands of the Minister of Health and Care. In a broad review of the situation of people with developmental disabilities who are serving prison sentences, reasons why they are in prison and what could have been done to prevent it should also be included. I ask that this be included by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4057	The left is also concerned about the conditions of the group we are talking about here today. We agree with a lot of the aspects that have been put forward, and I think there's a lot we should have done. There's a lot of political turbulence in this field. Now my clock isn't going, President. It's very nice if it doesn't go, because I have a lot to say! What I want to record is a slightly more principled aspect of what is being discussed today, and that is the Ombudsman's role itself. Today, we have a welfare state that is really a good safety net, where good laws are adopted in this room to catch up with everyone. Nevertheless, when I go home from here tonight, I know which places I pass where, for example. People are sleeping out. It really shouldn't work out. It really shouldn't be based on the decisions we've taken in this room. Still, some people are sleeping out. Why is that? Well, that's because some people don't find out in the system, some people don't have the resources to figure out in the system, some people don't have the resources to push. Whose job is it then to do that? Well, that's my job. These live in my constituency, it's me they can vote on, and then it's my job as a politician to create systems that make it not happen again. Then I have to look at what our social system is like. When we have a long list of lack of supervision of our institutions, we have to do something about supervision. The responsibility is ours. It is our responsibility to do something about the non-existence of the supervision that we criticize. And when there's a hole in the systems, it's our job to do something about it. What I'm very concerned about, is that we politicians, and actually the stakeholder organisations, just get somebody to do the uncomfortable job for the sake of convenience. The unpleasant job is to sit down and hear the stories, it's to read all the emails, it's to address issues here, it's to raise issues, it's all from interpellations to suggestions on how to improve the systems. We have some agents. The Children's Ombudsman is, in principle, very much for me because children do not have the right to vote. We have a consumer representative who means that we haven't discussed consumer matters here in a very long time. Consumer issues are no longer a political issue, because we have an ombudsman. We also have an equal opportunities agency. If you compare Norwegian and Swedish policies, gender equality policy is something we talk about in celebrations in Norwegian politics, while it is a major theme in Swedish politics. It's a political theme. There is something that political parties are fighting for. My sister party in Sweden is running an election campaign on gender equality policy. In Norway, we have an agent to fix it. This invasion of ombudsmen takes away the political role. It makes political matters unpolitical, and it weakens the role we have. I also think that over time it increases the political contempt because we're seen as being superiors who just sail over, while the heroes that clean up are the ombudsmen. It is our duty to represent those who have voted for us. It is our duty to hear the unpleasant stories, read the unpleasant e-mails and get hold of it. That's how we contribute to creating a better society. If we outsource our ombudsman role, a lot of the point is that we're here. Then we can be a practical business ministry that only follows the role of the ombudsman. I think I want the politicians back to be the heroes, the ones who fix up. When people put their heads in the system, when people face injustice, it's our job to sort things out. When I go home today, it's my job to talk to those who are under the bridge down at Bjørvika, and ask what's going on to make their lives better. If we outsource it from this hall, we undermine the very pillars of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4076	It is good that the proposers are committed to creating a decent and good living conditions for people with developmental disabilities. This was the cross-political agreement when the responsibilities reform was carried out in 1991, and I expect that there is still broad support for this value base, both at large, in the government and in the local government of the country. However, we need to keep an eye on how people with developmental disabilities are doing in different contexts. The reform provided for the termination of special care and institutions. People with developmental disabilities shall be provided with the necessary arrangements and assistance in the ordinary administrative and service equipment. Based on the same reasoning, a separate ombudsman system for people with developmental disabilities would be incorrect. Rather, we need to look at how the systems we have can work best for those with developmental disabilities. The patient representative for specialised healthcare users has been extended from September 2009 to the provision of health and care services in municipalities. This means that all users of municipal health and care services can receive free assistance from the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman also has the possibility to propose concrete measures on improvements and to inform supervisory authorities of critical circumstances. Because the Ombudsman is now working on matters from the entire healthcare system, it has changed its name to the Patient and User Ombudsman. The scheme, which has been in existence for several years, shall be evaluated after three years. The government will pay particular attention to the functioning of the scheme for people who are unable to express their own service needs. The majority of the Committee also asks the Ministry to consider whether sanctions should be strengthened. The user organisations say that today's complaint and supervision systems do not always work well enough. As a supervisory authority under the Social Services Act, the county has sanctioning powers in the form of being able to impose sanctions. According to reports to the State Health Authority, this sanctioning authority is very rarely used. This may be due to the fact that the county officials report that the municipalities follow-up when there is a lack of supervision. As the Board of Appeal, the Board of Appeal has inter alia: possibility of repealing or revoking local authority decisions. State health oversight revised the guidance for handling complaints under the Social Services Act in 2009. In cases where decisions on services are not complied with by the complainant, the county council is recommended to obtain a statement from the municipality and, where appropriate, to establish an incident-based supervisory case to see if the municipality has done what it can to provide the recipient with adequate assistance. The government is open to look at legislation and other measures that can enhance legal certainty for people with developmental disabilities. It's important that the big processes we're doing have a positive impact on this group. I am thinking in particular of the interaction reform, the new health and care law for the municipalities and the follow-up to the care plan 2015. Proposals are also concerned with the legal certainty of those with disabilities in criminal matters. This falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, as many have been involved. The Ministry of Justice points out that mental retardation needs need to be identified as early as possible in the process. This means that efforts cannot be limited to the time when the person is under the responsibility of criminal law. I would also like to refer to the follow-up of the Ministry of Justice by means of investigations and projects which are briefed in the letter from the Minister of Health to the Committee. We cannot allow the policy that was drawn up in the context of the reform of responsibility to be included in the forgotten book. Therefore, it is commendable that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has initiated a cross-ministerial information and development programme for development-impaired policy, as described in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality’s budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4096	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4099	In my post I pointed out to those with developmental disabilities who had been informed that they could not, however, move into their new home. I sent a question to the Council of State about this. Neighbors' seats answered: ‘Communities have a duty to provide services to their citizens when they have rights under, for example, the Local Health Act or the Social Services Act, irrespective of how the services are financed. As a result, all persons requiring care shall be guaranteed the services.’;» The problem is that that's the kind of answer we get. No matter where we turn, it shows that you have some rights, but the rights are still not being followed. For how many years are we going to have to respond to such enquiries before we get to a system of sanctions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4109	As I explained in my reply, the county council has the opportunity to intervene in individual cases and can also initiate event-based supervision if there is a complaint from the individual, or that the new Ombudsman, which applies to both the specialist and municipal health and care services, makes an enquiry to the county council. It is the county that is right to ensure that the municipalities offer the services to them. I am not sure that an ombudsman scheme would improve this. We have established arrangements. These arrangements are in place to ensure legal certainty for those covered by them. In this respect, I do not think it would have improved the situation if more people had had sanctions against the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4116	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4121	Unfortunately, as the draft representative refers to, many people with disabilities do not receive the follow-up they require under different legislation. Although a patient ombudsman system has been established to provide for the follow-up to health and care, it is now time for developmentally disabled people to experience unworthy treatment in different areas of society. This also applies in the school sector, one of the areas that the patient representative is not responsible for following up. Today, many people with developmental disabilities feel that they are not being trained in line with the Training Act. The 2009 Supervisory Communication shows that the supervision of compliance of school owners with the requirements of adapted training and special education shows deviations up to 90 pst. There is no doubt that this is in the interests of the legal certainty of the students, and that inadequate follow-up every day helps to create school losers. The periodic penalty payments or fines are possible penalties in the event of failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the county year after year. There is ‘reason to believe that some municipalities speculate in breaking the law’, says Assistant Secretary General Jarl Ovesen of the Municipal Report on 3 February 2010. The organisations of disabled people will have more state control over the municipalities and stronger sanctioning options. It requires both the Joint Organisation of Disability and the Norwegian Association of Devolved Persons. Today it is the state through the county that detects crimes in the field of education, but they are not followed up. Many of the crimes happen because municipalities and counties have to save money, and sacrifice the weakest in our society to get it done. An example of this is that many set up too large teaching groups, so that students are not given the opportunity to receive special education according to their own abilities and assumptions, as stated by the Training Act. When, year after year, the county discovers the same offences without any punishment for municipalities and county councils, it may seem that the crime is tacitly accepted against those with developmental disabilities. The journal ‘Society for All’ shows in an article on illegal provision of training in secondary school that many parents find it too complicated to complain. The Progress Party clearly believes that there is a need for a separate representative for those with developmental disabilities, an agent who can deliver an overall offer in terms of the rights of those with developmental disabilities — and end the offences that are detected year after year and that also occur within the school system — in line with several other areas of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4132	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 4216]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4148	No one has asked for the floor. After there was a ring to the voting, said [[Fotation, see page 4216]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4155	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4164	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit an expanded and binding national investment plan for the rail network for the period 2011 to 2019 by the autumn of 2010, with an additional investment framework of 60 billion. krones. It is assumed that new funding tools are used to provide clear, long-term and predictable funding.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4188	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:88 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4213	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit an expanded and binding national investment plan for the Tribal Road Network for the period 2011 to 2019, at the latest by the autumn of 2010, with an additional investment framework of 200 billion. krones. It is assumed that new funding tools are used to provide clear, long-term and predictable funding to ensure the overall development of large-scale projects within this investment framework.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4237	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:89 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4262	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the Bratsberg Railway is included in the State purchase of passenger trains in line with the rest of the train offer in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4289	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the collection point at Weather in the ‘Environmental Package for Transport in Trondheim’.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to remove the rush time charge from the «Environmental Package for Transport in Trondheim», so that there will be one rate 24 hours a day.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4334	It's going to go first over the points 2, 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4345	The adjustment points 1 and 3 are then replaced by the proposals No. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size determines that costs related to the extension of Fv 45 as referred to in Prop. 127 S is financed by State resources so as not to increase or prolong the payment of tolls in relation to decisions relating to St.prp. [[2008-2009]] [[2002-2003]] No 67 Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size determines that the total cost increase of Fv 64 for the Atlantic Tunnel is covered by the State. The size of the budget shall be subject, if necessary, to advance and cover funds from the State budget for 2011.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4371	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 10 June 2010: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the implementation of Regulation No. 1370/2007 of 23 October 2007 in the form of law, i.e. not through prescription homes as in Prop. [[EF]] 113 L [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4390	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 10 June 2010: ‘The government requests the submission of a case assessing a system of state legislation and the approval of long-distance bus services crossing county boundaries in order to ensure the proper functioning of express bus services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4409	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a big message on the mining industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4433	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy on the Norwegian mining industry, with concrete proposals on how the industry’s resources and opportunities for increased activity can best be recovered in the short and long term, including through the use of instruments such as taxation, simplification of procedures, visibility of public sector competences and clarification of the responsibilities of the administration, etc. and present them to the Magnificent in an appropriate manner.’» The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4460	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Mr Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to enter into negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4484	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the termination of the main agreement for agriculture.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4501	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4506	As a result, the vote was put to the vote by 80 votes, and the proposal received 24 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4514	During the debate, 26 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Mr Törgeir Tåldal, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 9-14, by Mr Torgair Tåldal, on behalf of the Progressive Party, proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right-wing Proposals No. 17-22, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 23–26, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1-22 is included on pages 32 and 33 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 23–26 is distributed in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national legislation providing the municipalities with a high degree of flexibility to set their own living limits.’ The roll-call boards showed that 99 votes were cast against the proposal from the Left and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.53.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4546	President! I think I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4551	I think I voted wrong too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4556	Two confessing sinners, and then the left is alone. 101 votes against and 1 vote in favour. That being the case, the proposal has been rejected. There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend all grant schemes in the agricultural agreement so that they do not stimulate in an environmentally hostile direction.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4577	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23 and 26, from the left. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the Norwegian export subsidies for cheese production through the turnover tax applicable from 1 July 2010.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to limit the obligation to live in a state and to soften the price adjustment for agricultural properties’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4589	The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they wish to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4601	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-22, with the exception of proposal No 21, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider transferring the right to dispose of food from the municipalities to the county.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government, through the agricultural settlement, asks for the income of farmers to have the same chronological development as other groups in society, as well as a low income supplement.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to assess a separate package of measures for grass-based livestock farming in the districts with targeted investment funds in order to maintain multiple uses in operation.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for new incentives for environmental investment in agriculture in the context of the 2011 government budget.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to reintroduce the stockpiling of cereals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4636	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that proposals be made to remove the restrictions on the number of members of a joint venture, to abolish the maximum distance between farms forming part of the same joint venture and to allow joint ventures to lease allowances.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4653	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the right. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The budget requires the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to include the framework conditions which cannot be established for longer periods as part of the annual budgetary procedure. The settlement for 2009 is continued as a transitional arrangement beyond the financial year 2010 with the amendments made to the CNB 2010.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose measures that could give farmers greater opportunity to own the land they rent and to propose the necessary legislative changes to stop the obligation to live and regulate the prices of agricultural property.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4675	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–14, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for necessary legislative changes so that the obligation to live and operate and the regulation of the prices of agricultural property can be lifted.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The 2010 agricultural settlement with the related agriculture agreement for 2010 is not acceptable.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals for transfers to agriculture in the State budget without prior negotiations.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to specify the taxes and levies levied on agriculture as an industry in the context of the presentation of the 2011 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote concrete measures for the reduction of taxes on agriculture in the context of the presentation of the 2011 State budget.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a system of marketable production quotas for cows' milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is country-wide.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4718	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 5 and 8, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the geographical restrictions and the number of participants for participation in joint ventures, as well as the quota cap.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy for the red tape of agriculture in the presentation of the 2011 government budget.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to the laws to remove the obligation to live and regulate the prices of agricultural property.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4745	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. One, two, four, six and seven from the Prom and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to develop niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the co-operation rules to increase flexibility and improve the possibilities for a varied and versatile use structure.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings before the Storting to amend the law on the prohibition of division of land.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to permit the sale of demonstrations and the provision of services by way of visits to or in connection with production premises.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all production regulations to be abolished if the processing is carried out on its own farm.’ [[such as milk quotas]] The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4785	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution. Before we do that, the President will point out that there has to be a correction under I. Under income cap. 4150 item 70 shall be NOK 3525000 and not NOK 3525, as stated in the cancellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e4974	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Tåldal on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Mr Törgeir Tåldal, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing proposals No. 3 and 4, by Torgeir Tjäldal, on behalf of the Party of Advancement There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Proposal for a reindeer management agreement 2010/2011 is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the compensation scheme for the loss of cleanness, including assessing the reinforcement of the requirements for the documentation of reported losses. The review shall be carried out by an independent body.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e5008	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the reindeer management agreement to follow the calendar year and the entry of the negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e5023	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit its own notification of landfills during 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e5206	During the debate Per Arne Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to grant earmarked funds for preventive public health measures under the authority of municipalities and non-governmental organisations. Establish a pilot project to screen intestinal cancer. Ensure that waiting times for diagnostics and treatment are reduced. Instruct health establishments to ensure immediately that the treatment provision to cancer patients is of high quality and is in line with up-to-date knowledge, including on the link between volume and quality. Promote proposals for appropriations for the development of several quality records for cancer. The records shall be pseudonymous, externally encrypted and based on consent or reservation requirements. Ensure that the work of obtaining the consent of participants in the mammography programme is carried out as efficiently as possible so that the data can be used for research and quality development. Develop several health care quality indicators, including for cancer treatment. Ensure transparency of quality measurement results, including comparison between hospitals and units. Publish information about waiting times for cancer treatment. Establish a system of information and guidance on tried and tested treatment provision in Norway and the rest of the world, for patients who do not have the effect of established treatment in Norway, including those with a high prevalence of drug use. cancer-capped. Promote proposals to strengthen the units for tried and tested treatment at the Oslo University Hospital Radium Hospital, and at Health Bergen. Establish a new decision-making system to ensure that new treatment that is safe and cost-effective is used more quickly in healthcare than at present and that healthcare provision becomes more equivalent. There shall be clear guidelines for the assessments. Suggest improvements in the funding system that help to speed up access to new medications and treatments for patients. Provide a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation with concrete objectives and measures ensuring better capacity and quality of supply, including for cancer patients. Strengthen the provision of relief through empowerment measures, as well as the establishment of several outpatient teams, hospice and relief units. Review and propose improvements in the provision of relieving treatment to children. Promote proposals for enhanced efforts for education and research, including health research, inter alia, in the field of biotechnology. Review and propose improvements in the industrial policy instruments to promote the biotechnology industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e5289	During the debate Bent Höie has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure that the patient, or the authorised person, is considered to be a party to cases in which he has asked the Health Authority for an assessment of infringements of the provisions of the Health Care Act. The amendment must ensure that the patient or his representative is entitled to have access to the documents of the case and to appeal against the decision of the Health Authority. It is at the same time necessary to establish rules to protect confidentiality-related information and to respect the privacy requirements of all parties.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e5316	During the debate, Kari Kjønaas Kjos has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an ombudsmanship system for people with developmental disabilities, which has the necessary sanctioning powers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to take concrete action for people with a developmental disability who are punishable in Norwegian prison.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-15.ana.ud2482e5393	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
