ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e79	The representatives Morten Höglund and Per Arne Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e87	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e90	On behalf of the representatives Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I am delighted to present representative proposals on the evaluation of the alert paragraph and its impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e95	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e109	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e118	The theme that we address in this matter is not very controversial. An overall committee underlines the desire to put in place good schemes to stimulate the development of environmental technologies in Norway. We have many advantages that make this interesting for the nation to bet on, because we have good industrial clusters, good technology clusters, which also have capital available and – let's say – the right mentality to want to develop better environmental technologies in different areas. Nor does Norway lack good ideas, it turns out. We have many small entrepreneurs and large companies working in that direction, who see the potential in both large and small products of local and global character. It is a wish of an overall committee to help them develop their product for the commercial market. Then there is some disagreement in the committee on how to proceed, but there is good support for the work that is going on and that the Minister for the Environment has written to the Committee, and one looks forward to it being presented to the Stortinget on a case, so that we get a good debate and decided on good instruments. The opposition points out that today's schemes are not sufficient, because we often find that large companies do not have access to the funds in a way that raises the large projects. We also see that some small entrepreneurs point out that they like to get good help putting ideas down on the paper, but when you're going to go from the paper to test it out, and prove it to the market, it lacks it. On the other hand, in some cases the authorities are quite willing to help with the product when it is commercialised. But as some of these people have at least said to the undersigned, once the product has proven its function, the market arranges commercialization. It's not that someone needs the help of the authorities, but to prove that the product works. It is, of course, relevant to another issue dealt with in the Storting, namely a mechanism for the demonstration of wind turbines, which also shows that the actors believe in their products if only they are proved on the market. They don't think they need the help of the state to get into the market, but they have to prove it works. So an overall committee looks forward to the government's own case. Pending this, a majority of the Committee opposes the creation of its own fund for support for climate and environmental technologies. At the same time, as an opposition politician, I would like to stress what I have already said, that a system must facilitate participation in the aid regime by the large Norwegian industry. I would also like to stress the importance of Norwegian industrial and technology clusters for the future having framework conditions that enable them to continue their business here at home. We have seen, for example: compared to the climate quota law introduced by the government, that it is not attractive to invest in new industries in Norway, because the allocation of climate allowances is lower than if established in other countries. It cements today’s industrial structure in Norway but makes it difficult to be modern and develop if you don’t have a good home market. In addition, I would like to point out that in his letter to the Committee dated 28 April this year, the Minister for the Environment wrote that CO2 clean technology must be considered available. With the situation we now have, where CO2 treatment has been exposed in Mongstad for at least four years, and the Council of State in the Energy and Environmental Committee hearing last Thursday said that Norway is the most advanced in this, it is a bit strange to experience that, on the one hand, the letter in the Committee just a month ago states that technology is available, while three days later projects in Mongstad are postponed because the technology is still not available. It reduces the credibility of the government when it boasts of how good it is to develop environmental technologies, when the government itself completely misses a description of reality. I'm not going to go into the Mongstad case any more. It is moving on to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. But a proposition in terms of building confidence in the industry is that the government actually informs and has a correct picture of reality – they haven't had that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e147	Let me start by saying that in and of itself is a very nice suggestion right here comes with. We're all for climate technology. We're all to spend money on stimulating the development of it, even though it's not exactly very original to make all sorts of earmarked fund solutions out of the oil fund. That may well also be the reason why the Right is on its own about this proposal. Then there is already work in the government to develop a national strategy for environmental technologies. It is no more than a few weeks since it was announced that the government will spend 500 million. kr over three years to just new eco-innovation. We know that Norwegian business is far ahead. One of the freshest examples of this was when Statoil and Statkraft went ashore the giant contract for the development of sea wind at Doggerbank. After some reactions at the time, it would be thought that this was a national disaster, and that all Norwegian companies are doing should do so in Norway. For my part, it is absolutely amazing that our two heaviest energy companies have this focus – and not least the competence to win such contracts. Recently, I met people from a quite new company, GasPlas, who are driving the development of an entirely new technology in which CO2 is removed from natural gas in such a way that the carbon comes out as solid structures and can be used for everything from fertiliser to super-light and super-cheap carbon cycles – not CCS, but CCU, Carbon Capture and Use. And there are many other small and large examples of Norwegian companies that come up with amazing ideas. The greatest weakness we have is probably the transition between research and commercialisation. There is the rapporteur and I fully agree. It has to be the focus when the climate technology strategy is completed. So spending money on developing climate technologies is what we're all for. Then I have to say that when you read the setting, the big consensus about the reality description is perhaps the most striking. It says, for example. that we have ‘strong technology environments’. Many industries ‘have developed far within an environmentally friendly mindset’, and Norwegian ‘enterprises’ have a ‘mental’ competitive advantage when environmental challenges become an important part of the global competitive environment’. I'm 100 pst. agree with an overall committee here, but it is obvious to ask: why has it been so? Has it happened entirely by itself? There are many good, forward-looking actors in Norwegian business, but this is also the result of Norway's being in the forefront, with strict environmental legislation, strict requirements, early introduction of CO2 prices, a strict quota allocation. It's nice to spend money on what you like, like climate technology. However, if one is to get some way, the policy – the whole of the regime in which Norwegian business operates – must be linked. This is where the Right is failing, because as they talk about nice symbolic things – like what kind of energy label government building should have – in the environmental debates, they make wrong choices over and over again when it's going to make demands in those areas where it really matters to the emitters what we're doing. I remember very well all the debates we had on the Norwegian link to the European quota system, where the Right was one of the parties who cried out that the allocation was too strict – no demands were to be made on Norwegian companies beyond what was being made in Europe. But we see that it gives technology development. Hydro's new gas technology is a very good example. So I feel very sure that the story of Norway that had the strictest quota allocation in Europe is going to be exactly the same as the story of Norway that introduced the highest CO2 charge on Norwegian base. They made tough demands that stimulated a technology development that gave us an important competitive advantage when the rest of the world came after. Where's the right in this? We're not going beyond case number. 3 on today's map before we see that the Right is involved in a proposal to deviate from the CO2 treatment requirement for Norwegian gas plants. It's unclear to me what kind of technology development on the climate side they're going to have out of it. So here you go in the spagate on one and the same day – with just a little predatory discussion in the middle. To get back to carbon capture and storage and the most comprehensive climate technology project ever in this country: the opposition agreed to vote for test centre Mongstad last year. It's fine. But there was absolutely no ‘driving’ on CCS until the red-green government came in 2005. We've gone from nothing to being world leaders. One thing the opposition should have: without the red-green government, we wouldn't have any discussions about postponement in Mongstad, because we wouldn't have any CCS project at all. It is very close to mention that Jens Stoltenberg in the Questionnaire said that anyone who has no visions does not disappoint anyone either. The opposition is not even willing to guarantee that the Mongstad project will be followed up if we get a government shift, as the environmental movement asks them to do. One of the most important things the Right could do in this field was to ensure predictability of the largest climate technology project we have. Unfortunately, despite today's fine words about climate technology, it is among the ambitious Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e191	Let me start with the slightly overall perspective of why this proposal is an important and necessary proposal: the world needs more, not less, energy. 1.6 billion people today live without electricity. The International Energy Agency estimates that the world’s energy needs will increase by 45 pst. by 2030. At the same time, we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 80-90 pst. by 2050. Economic growth will help to lift hundreds of millions of people out of poverty – without degradation of biodiversity, without emissions to air, water and soil exceeding the resilience of nature and humans, without losing control of global warming. There are formidable challenges individually — and even more so when they are united. Solving them will require much of the human capacity for ingenuity and willingness to develop new technological solutions. The world must take a formidable climate promise in the future, and Norway must take part in this promise. We need companies and individuals that are stimulated to research, develop and commercialise new technological climate solutions. We need a flora of different approaches to one and the same problem complex, and we need companies that see new opportunities in green jobs and green technology development. Norway is pretty good at investing in research in climate-friendly technology. However, we are far behind other countries in commercialising research results in concrete products and processes. Therefore, we need a support system that helps to lift climate technologies from research results to commercialisation – a system that provides the opportunity to translate theory into practice, for example. through demonstration or pilot facilities for testing new technologies, a system which facilitates the exceeding of barriers in immature markets and significant technological risks. Today’s instrumentation in Enova and Innovation Norway is established for other purposes and has proved unsuitable for raising improved products and processes from research results in environmental technologies to businesses. Often, the companies in question become too large to be beneficiaries of support from today's tools. We therefore need to combine continued high research and development efforts with support and a better tool to take the projects from good ideas to commercialisation. Many different technologies may be involved in support from a climate technology fund. It could be, for example, be energy efficiency improvement and energy recovery in industry through the use of more efficient equipment such as electric motors, boilers, pumps and better integration of process facilities, the development of new renewable fuel and fuel to replace current fossil sources, process improvements in industry providing lower energy consumption per unit produced, or the development of substitute raw material for coke and coal in industrial processes – to mention something. The world’s sustainability is threatened by a significant market failure. It's too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly. It is best solved through global agreements that increase the price of emissions, but technological developments cannot or should not wait for world leaders to agree on a higher carbon price. That is why we need a fund and an instrument for the development of climate-friendly technology. Change need not be the end of anything good. It might as well be the start of something better. This is also true of the changes that the climate crisis is driving. Norway has all the prerequisites — technology, competence and capital — to make the climate crisis an opportunity, not just a problem. But that requires that we play our cards right. In the right, investments in climate technology must be one of the most important strategic choices Norway can make for the future. Therefore, climate technology should become a fourth investment area for the use of oil money, alongside the areas of activity proposed by the Stoltenberg I Government in the context of the paper on the rules of action. There it appeared that the yield of the oil fund should go to growth-promoting tax relief – what is called voodoo policy by the Stoltenberg II Government – infrastructure such as road and rail and investment in knowledge and research. Climate and environmental technologies should enter this company of wise investments for the future. Finally, let me ask the representative Marthinsen a little visit. She pointed out in her post that the right hand side of this case was alone. That shows that the minority is often right. She also pointed out that the industry has done a lot to cut emissions on its own, among other things. through voluntary agreements, including those of the Right. She believes that the Right has little to boast about in climate policy. Well, we created CLIMIT. Already in 2002 we requested the clean-up of CO2 in the Bondevik II Climate Communication. I can mention the area by area where the Right has gone ahead, and where this government has voted down our initiative. I don't have to go further than to e.g. Our proposals for energy efficiency improvement, which the government does not take seriously, and we are now the only country in Europe with no clear energy efficiency improvement targets – to mention some examples. I would like, on behalf of the Right, to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e230	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the proposal he referred to. The next speaker is Erling Sande, then Snorre Serigstad Valen – yes, it is the list of speakers that the President refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e238	Thank you for that, President. I guess only 1,100 votes are divorced, so it might be a good thing that one gets before SV in the debate – once in a while, at least. The world does not target climate change unless new, climate-friendly technologies are developed. We need technologies that get emissions down, and the production of new, green energy up. Not least, we need technological development, which means that Norway has solid bones to stand on when the income and employment of our petroleum resources once comes to an end, either because of climate considerations or because it simply becomes empty. The market for green technology is enormous. There are several reasons why Norway has to invest in the development of environmental technologies: of course because the climate needs it, but also because we have economic muscles to do it, and because green technology is an incredibly large and growing market – that is, an organisation for the green technology industry, good and forward-looking business policy. China is becoming a power factor in this important growth area — the production of green energy and environmental technologies. A recent report shows that China has jumped from the United States when it comes to investment in green technology. The reason for this initiative is open; there are many of the growth possibilities of the future. Norway has particularly good intentions to be good at climate-friendly technology, with benefits for both the global climate and the future economic development. It's not long since we've been handling the ocean energy laws in this room. It is a good example of a bet that highlights good opportunities for Norwegian companies and the Norwegian competence environment. The global market for offshore wind power is expected to increase rapidly. Norway has a significant advantage through experience in oil and gas production on its Norwegian base. We have extensive experience in building, operating and maintaining sea-based installations. That experience is also to be taken with us when we have moved from what was yesterday's solar energy, which we are now taking up through fossil energy, to use it as a fresh product through bioenergy, wind power, solar energy and much more. The government has announced that it will use 500 million. kr over a three-year period to develop new environmental technologies, and one is working on a national environmental technology strategy. It shall be assessed how the country's efforts are to be coordinated and focused on selected areas where Norway has the potential for international growth. In the Center Party, we are pleased with the common understanding that is in this room that Norway is going to participate in the elevator to deploy new technologies to make our consumption and our growth viable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e255	This debate reminds me of previous discussions that have roamed the public about what is going on to solve the climate problems. Then I think about a debate a few years back between the so-called technology optimists and those who thought it was our consumption there was something wrong with, and that we had to make excuses to solve the climate problems. I believe today that we can all agree that the solution lies both ways. Climate policy is both development policy, distribution policy, technology policy, etc. etc. That technology plays a crucial role in achieving our climate goals, there is no doubt about it. There is also little disagreement about the reality description of the case, which the representative Marthinsen has been involved in. I will therefore be brief and just give some thought. To the very role of technology in solving our climate challenges, and that in a very short time: one thing is that we need to achieve our climate goals in order to avoid more than two degrees of heating by 2050, but we need to be on track in good time before that – we need to have an emission path that starts falling drastically in very good time before that. Even a scenario in which we can limit the globe's warming to two degrees will present very technology-driven challenges. Two-degree heating is what we expect as a sort of zero point in the debate. That's what we've agreed to now, and we have to be careful to believe that a two-degree warming of the globe is unproblematic. This in itself will lead to major changes in the climate, major changes in population patterns elsewhere in the world than in Norway, leading to many climate refugees, leading to changes in life expectancy for very many people. It will also require technological solutions to deal with this. So climate technology is not just the technology to limit global warming. It is also the technology that is needed for us to be able to handle it. Therefore, it is good that the government has announced that it will spend 500 million. kr over three years for an eco-innovation development programme. So the timing of this proposal is interesting, because it is going on that announced a work in the government right now on developing a national strategy for environmental technology, which I believe can also be agreed in the Stortinget. It will be in the debate that today's proposals are being put to the test. Will the Right then be able to make demands and stimulate development when it comes to the piece? Here I will wholeheartedly subscribe to the considerations of the representative Marthinsen. The representative Astrup would like to refer to the decision of the Bondevik II government already in 2002, but it does little to help when the Right in 2010 jumps between criticising the government for the lack of efforts to clean up CO2 emissions from gas power plants, and then – a few minutes later, in fact – attacking the government’s so-called so-called so-called special-spice CO2 management requirements at gas power plants. The efforts of the Bondevik II government in 2002 are of little help when the Right in two cases in this room is doing its part to neutralise that effort. I also react a little to some of the reality description to the Right. I understand that it is in the role of being in opposition, but that Norway then until those degrees are far behind, I do not agree. I think all of us in the Energy and Environment Committee have visited many technology actors, many in the business community and many research institutions that are proof of the opposite. The red-green government has significantly increased research efforts since it took over, and our industry has had a very good development in emissions, which must continue. Long behind is the Norwegian pedestal. There we have a job to do, and there I think the red-green parties are better able to make demands on the oil industry than what the Right is, based on the experience I have with those debates. I would like to welcome the debate on technology development from a climate perspective, and I would like to challenge the Right to reflect in later initiatives a little about the relationship between the future role of oil and what other and other technology developments we are going to use our forces on. I am of those who believe that increasing efforts in the oil and gas industry must necessarily be at the expense of green and renewable energy. And I'm very interested in hearing about the proposers in some way sharing that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e276	Just a brief explanation of vote, given that we are not on the committee. The government of the Left and the National Assembly have called for the creation of climate funds to realise good and efficient greenhouse gas reductions in industry that prevent carbon leakage and stimulate technological development. The left therefore chooses to support the proposal of the Right in the vote. However, for the Left, it is important that such a fund be set up in such a way that it is the industry itself that finances it. In order to achieve a good climate impact, funding must be linked to individual business emissions. If not, this will be a small targeted measure for reductions. That being said, in its alternative budgets, the Left already has a high priority for climate action and climate technology development. For 2010, we doubled support for pilot plants in the environment, climate and energy sectors. We have also repeatedly proposed the creation of a semi-state investment company to provide risk capital for good climate change projects and for climate change entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e287	The starting point for this debate is a relationship that I think all the parties of the Great Britain really agree on, and that is that dramatic technological change is the most important solution to the climate problems. There is no economic theory or practice that can reduce consumption in the rich part of the world so dramatically over such a short period that it can be the alternative solution to climate problems. In other words, we have to put all the cloths in order to bring about a drastic technological change, so that we can achieve it, among other things. Astrup is in the process of rapid economic progress for the world's poor, but with an energy use and technology that is much better than the one we have today. These aren't areas where Norway is far behind and gets into the back yard, as somebody says, I agree with Marianne Marthinsen there. There is an enormous amount of positive in Norwegian business in this area. The fact that Norway, for example, has a solar industry, when you look out the window all the 365 days of the year – not everyone is just like yesterday – is amazing. It's only due to long industrial skills and some entrepreneurs of the type Alf Bjørseth, who saw a historic chance and seized it, against all odds. I was involved in opening up Elkem Solar's new business in Kristiansand, which is a star example of what the Norwegian solar industry is doing. When I went home from Burma this day, I read a long article in the Herald Tribune about REC's investment in Singapore, which was full of praise for what the company is doing down there. So it's not like we're not doing anything. There is a lot of positive in Norwegian business. Marine windmills are another example. On Thursday I'm going to Averøy by Kristiansund and open the new, large pellet factory there. Yes, I recognize that there are different views about its environmental impact, but at least it is an attempt at a great deal of investment in an area that has a great potential for climate change. But I think Solvik-Olsen and I agree here, and others have been involved in it in the debate and put their finger on the most important thing: where we sometimes wear out, is in the commercialization of products – from good research at universities, from good thinking in companies, to what products have the market potential that they can really be put into practice. The aim of the big investment in climate technology and environmental technology that the government is now advertising is to look at how we can help businesses take it out in real life. But if we're going to do that, we have to have an unpleasant debate – and it's an area where there has at least been a historical difference between the red-green parties and the Right, I don't know if it's any longer – where the only practical way to do it is to define some strategic key areas for Norway. If we are to spread money thinly on all theoretical and non-theoretical projects, it simply won't be enough for a strategic bet. So we have to make it difficult for politicians to work, namely to define some broad main areas for Norway where we want to bet. This could be done, for example, by: there are many things in shipping, where we are a pioneer, there may be ballast water problems, where Norway has great opportunities, and there may be wind turbines, where it is well located in Norway. I don't think we should draw the conclusions of this meeting, but I think quite certainly that unless we decide on some main areas and bet money, thinking and power there, we won't succeed. The studies carried out by the Ministry of the Environment in other countries — although Norway has done a great deal, that no other country has done anything — show that in the United Kingdom, in Germany and in a rapidly growing developing country such as South Korea, this is precisely what they are doing, they define some national areas of activity and invest both in intellectual, financial and organisational resources in those areas. I do not know whether the Right still has its old idea that the policy should be completely technology neutral, but if they do not, we agree. If they still have that, this is a point where we might separate. Let me end by saying that these national strategies should, of course, come back to the Storting. In the context of the budget, we shall provide detailed guidelines on the use of the technology fund being advertised. I'll go on to another point, like, among other things. Astrup was inside, and that's the fact that a very large part of the earth's population doesn't have access to energy at all. I just came home from Burma, a country where the vast majority of the population of the village don't even have electricity at home, while in African countries is under 10 pst. of the population related to electric current. Norway has a great job to do in terms of how we can use public investment to trigger much larger private investments in African countries in hydropower and solar energy, and in other countries also in wind power and other areas, where public funds can trigger much greater private investment to solve the world’s energy supply in a more environmentally friendly way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e304	We agree on a lot of what's originally in the proposal, so I'm not going to lift it up. But many here have referred to the CO2 clean-up projects as a particularly important approach. With the reasons that the government has given for postponing Mongstad, technology challenges, it's okay for the market to know the government's thoughts. Today in our country, the environmental movement is out saying that they want to be cleaned on Kårstø, when you don't get cleaning on Mongstad. Political adviser to the Council of State says that this should not be ruled out. But does the government itself believe that it is possible to clean Kårstø by 2020, when the government itself uses technology challenges to postpone Mongstad? There is little reason to believe that someone will start building a sewage treatment plant on Kårstø before you have seen if it works in Mongstad. Therefore, the question is: does the Council of State believe that it is possible for the government to work on a CO2 clean-up project at Kårstø by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e317	I am pleased with the questioner's belief in the government's action and rapid pace, as this question was asked in the hearing as late as Thursday. At least you have faith that we are acting quickly, if we were to make a completely different answer today. The answer is the same as on Thursday: This is what we are going to come back to Stortinget in a proper and tidy way, and I will not forge any conclusions regarding Kårstø. So the question of available technology. It alludes to the fact that yes, the technology to capture and especially to save CO2 is available. But the question is, how can you do this on a large scale on Mongstad in such a way that this is a project that can inspire the thousands of similar projects we need in the rest of the world? That question has not been resolved, and that is why it has also become a postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e327	The council is probably aware that I do not have the greatest faith in the government’s power of action. The reason why a person takes the question again is that the government does not answer the question. This is essential, because we now know – we have not known this before, but we now know – that Gassnova has recommended several times, the first time already in January 2007, at least as documented, that the government does not have two CO2 clean-up projects in progress. However, more than half a billion kroner have been spent on investigating and assessing things and seaweed in relation to Kårstø cleaning. When it comes to trust that the government informs correctly – the confidence in business compared to spending money on the right projects – it is quite essential to know whether Kårstø will be a game for the gallery because the government is not ready to take two battles with the environmental movement of two fallen cleaning projects, or whether one actually cuts through and ensures that all the resources are channelled into the cleaning project that all the parties are behind, namely in Mongstad. That's why I ask again: wouldn't it have been neat if the state council announced what is technically possible according to the government to... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e339	It would be totally wrong if I should answer in Stortinget a question that lies under another state council, and which the government has so expressly said we should come back to in a proper way. As far as Mongstad is concerned, I feel that the matter is really quite debated, but the heart of the matter is that this is an area on which, unlike the Progress Party, we are working enormously. The point of view of the Progress Party is extremely unclear. It started with the game being against the entire project. It's a little more clear now, but it would be very interesting to know if the Progress Party will complete Mongstad – not in any case, but if Mongstad becomes a decent project economically, politically and technologically. Will the Progress Party continue this project? We have not received an answer to that, and it is the real debate that remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e346	The Council of State is probably aware that the Party of Advancement cannot respond to this change of line in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e349	If the government wants to ask questions, you're going to have to fix it by choice, but it has to happen first. Then we can switch roles. I would like to ask a question to the Council of State that does not go to Mongstad – he is sure to be pleased about that – but on today's instrument, which is mainly Enova. Then I ask whether the Council of State agrees that Enova is not a targeted enough tool to trigger the kind of technology that we are talking about here, in the commercialisation phase. And what is the Council of State's assessment of the strong criticism that the Riksrevision has promoted against Enova in terms of bureaucracy, how transparent it is, and how effective the instruments available to Enova have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e356	With regard to the Riksrevision's criticism of Enova, I must refer to the Minister of Oil and Energy as responsible for Enova. As for the further question, whether Innovation Norway and Enova are sufficient tools, my answer is that in the process we are about to undergo, we need to carefully assess how these devices can be used. It is not that just spending money on those devices will be sufficient; we need to have an overall structure, with which – this is not something the state can do alone – the most important and heaviest actors in Norwegian business define first: what are the areas where Norway is really going to bet? There we are in a process of this overall plan, but we have to move on with it, and also with it see how the instrument can be used to achieve these objectives. I don't think we're going to make a whole new tool. We have to look at how the things we already have can be used in a better way than it works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e363	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e368	It's going to be a little bit on the side of the Right's original proposal, but it's still very relevant in the debate we've had, because very much of the government's credibility here is at the bottom of the CO2 clean-up project in Mongstad. At least that's the biggest thing. Let me first comment on the efforts of the representative Serigstad Valen to describe history, which is obviously full of holes. For it is that yes – SV is the first batch that has been in a government where the government statement programmed to have full-scale gas power plant cleaning from day one. But that government statement does not prove to be very valuable, because many gas power plants have been built in Norway, on a Norwegian base, without cleaning from day one. Mobile gas power plants have been built in central Norway without cleaning from day one. And one full-scale gas power plant that has been built on Norwegian land under the red-green government – that project came under the red-green government and not as the council has tried several times to give the impression that it came before they began to rule – is without cleaning. And there will be cleaning at least eight years after start-up. I would like to remind you of the same thing that the representative Astrup mentioned, namely that when the Bondevik government promoted the climate communication, the new requirement was that it should be cleaned on all new gas power plants from day one. So what's in the Soria Moria statement is nothing new. What's new is that the requirement isn't met, and I think that's special. I would also like to remind you of what SV weighted when the Storting processed the gas message the following year, namely 2003. In fact, SV, who did not participate in demanding clean-up from day one in 2002, stressed that CO2 clean-up technology was an immature technology with major challenges and high costs. And then today you try to make it look like you've been a champion of CO2 cleaning from day one. The problem is that SV has been opposed to the use of gas – even with cleaning – and thus has not been a driver to obtain technology that made it possible. Then the State Council challenges the Progress Party whether we want to be on the full-scale clean-up at Mongstad. It's worth noting the nuances he's making: if it's a good project. Yeah, if it's a good project, the Progress Party is on it. All the parties at Stortinget agreed in 2007 that one would try to get CO2 cleaning at Mongstad in 2014. Everyone was behind the ambitions. The difference between the Progress Party and the government was that we would not commit ourselves to building a full-scale cleaning plant in 2014 at the cost of what it would cost. The government did. We said it wasn't smart, because you can't decide when you're going to have a breakthrough in technology, you can't decide that the CO2 cleaning of Mongstad is a better measure than other possible measures for the same money. Then we got a lot shut. Today I see that the council says exactly the same things, as if he himself has carried it all the way to the square. It's not. It's okay to turn around, I'm very happy that the Council of State has done it. But I think he should recognise the history of this matter, rather than questioning the policies of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e396	It is interesting, when an offensive proposal on how to contribute to cutting greenhouse gas emissions in Norway is promoted, that the Right is criticised for not being environmentally friendly enough in other areas. I understand that the government parties have a strong need to get attention away from their own policies and achievements. In this respect, the climate communication has been put at risk, so that action is taken on the basis of the climate communication in the State budget for 2013, at the earliest, in reality. Obviously, there's no need to save the world anyway. We have postponements at Mongstad for at least four years in a scaled-down project, and this is the government's performance project. The right has promoted a number of offensive proposals. Let me also remind you that the protection of the rainforest, which is the only area where the government really succeeds, was a proposal from the Right in connection with the climate negotiations. It is an excellent proposal, because it is cheap and effective to protect the rainforest in order to reduce emissions, and I think the government has so far done a very good job in that area. But in all other areas, we have not succeeded. I also recall that it was we who proposed to delete some of the allowances in the European wholesale market, because we know that it will have immediate effect in terms of reducing emissions. We have proposed competitive framework conditions in the domestic market for biofuels, we all know what the government thinks about it. We have today proposed this fund for climate and environmental technologies, which the government parties are voting down. We have made proposals to improve energy efficiency – with clear objectives and concrete measures that will really have an impact on energy efficiency improvement – that the government parties have voted against. We have proposed more small power, more hydropower, a charge for the incineration and doubling of the landfill charge. The latter is partially met now, but so late that very many of the contracts that were in the market have gone to Sweden, unfortunately, and the climate gain of it is rather doubtful. So I believe that here the Right has nothing to be ashamed of, while the Government should perhaps go more in itself before they correct the index finger to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e405	It is obvious that the matter of Mongstad will shape much of the political debate in the weeks to come, and I think that is very good. Because if we're going to take the debate we're talking about here today, how we're going to get up climate research in a good way, Mongstad is a very good example of what I think is a good policy. What we've had of history writing here today is reasonably full of holes. It is probably right that Bondevik said no to gas power plants without cleaning, that it should be a target. In the Storting here now Christian People's Party and Left have also said that you should not have gas power plants without cleaning. What you assume is that there are some others who develop cleaning technology, some others who get this in place – and then you have to study it. On the other hand, we have the Progress Party and the Right, as we look at other proposals here, where gas power plants are only an energy contributor. CO2 cleaning is not required in connection with the start-up of gas power stations, a decoupling between technology development and the energy policy gas power station is required. What our government is doing is we're getting up to a gas-fired power plant, and we're getting into concrete research, concrete development of clean-up technology that's going to be used on a full scale on Mongstad. No one's ever done that before. Why did we do that? Because we've had the ability to make compromises in government, which point forward. We've been willing to get dirty on our hands to get results in climate policy. That breakthrough was important – it's important. Then it's, as Jens Stoltenberg says, and as it's been referred to earlier here: if you have no ambitions, you have no visions, you don't disappoint anyone either. The Right Party and the Progressive Party will not disappoint anyone in this policy. It is very important what the representative, Mr Marthinsen, points out: when we are talking about technology development, there has to be a link between the tools we put in to develop research and the demands we make to the industry to use the research results to get to the point here, not research, but results in climate policy. That's what this government is doing, that's what the previous governments couldn't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e420	I listened to the debate and thought that I had spent eight years in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, when I heard the selective history of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, former adviser to energy and environmental politicians in the Progress Party. He forgot to say how offensive SV was in the early 2000s, when we proposed CO2 capture on gas power offshore in the Grane field and Kristin field, and the use of CO2 as pressure support. These things I thought it was important to get there, so I just came up here to make sure that Ketil Solvik-Olsen was up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e431	The President very much appreciates historical debates, as a genuine conservative human being, but will only draw attention to the fact that this is the first thing on today's map, and that there are a few things left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e434	I'm going to give credit to Right for thinking about better climate policy. Nothing is better than if there is a situation. But what's special is not the comparison Right before 2005 and Right in the opposition. What's most special is the Right in 2010 and the Right in 2010 in this room. Here stands the one day Nikolai Astrup presenting Right's environmental policy, and two weeks earlier, the representative Røbeck Nørve, also from the Right, criticises the government for imposing strange clean-up requirements on gas power plants and therefore prevents the construction of gas power plants in parts of the country that need more power, and criticises the government not to start up the mobile gas power plants in Moor and Romsdal in order to bring down the prices of power. This does not match, this conflicts with each other. Then there's the open question: What's the debt, what's the Right's environmental policy? Is it the representative of Astrup's production here today, or is it Røbekk Nørve's manufacture? If it is in a strange way to combine these two Buddhas, how do they correspond to the climate agreement that Right has been in the Stortinget? And how does one then intend to achieve the national cuts that one has undertaken to reach?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e443	It is a desperate situation we experience from the Workers' Party in this case. We should remember that when the Stortinget dealt with the same climate report as I mentioned earlier in 2002, the Workers' Party was very clear in its comments that one should not be required to clean Kårstø, one should not be required to clean Snow White. In fact, the Prime Minister has criticized the Bondevik II government for not demanding such cleaning, but the Labour Party did not want such cleaning requirements either. So when the Workers' Party comes here and later like they're very good, it's going to be skin sanctity. Then I think it's much better to be neat and honest, as the Progress Party is. We have been opposed to demanding clean-up by a given date, because we want to wait until the technology exists. We've said that the day technology is available, you have to be able to clean. But when the technology does not exist, a requirement for clean-up will be the same as having a ban on full scale gas power plants. It's the Progress Party against it. If we think it's okay to pump the gas out of the North Sea, we have to be able to use it in Norway as well as to use it in England. If it's not hypocrisy, and hypocrisy, I'm very strongly opposed, but I see that there are others who like it very much. When a later Mongstad project was important for the development of CO2 cleaning technology in order to have a point emission to clean, a question has to be asked: Soria Moria would clean Kårstø, for Kårstø was the only gas power plant in operation. If the main thing for the government was to develop technology, a used Kårstø plant could develop that technology. When you choose to build Mongstad, it has nothing to do with CO2 clean technology initially. It has something to do with the fact that the Workers' Party could not say no to building a gas power plant on Mongstad, because it would shut down the refinery at an earlier time. That is the reality. I think that is a very good assessment, because I am also totally opposed to shutting down the refinery at Mongstad for point-to-point emission reasons. But you didn't need the Mongstad gas power plant to develop the technology, it could be done at Kårstø. So there's the selective argument. The problem with the policy of government when they say no to all other gas power plants requiring purification is that no contribution is made to the development of more CO2 cleaning technology for that reason. Industrial power Møre, who is required to clean up at start-up, does not have capital to contribute to the development of such a sewage treatment plant on its own. The problem is simply that no gas plants are being built in Norway. This means that you have a situation where the government allows you to build mobile gas power plants without cleaning. Now you're even going to start building it in Hordaland, because you don't allow other types of power projects, for example. gas power, which could clean up the situation on a permanent basis. I don't think it's a good policy to allow the use of gas on offshore, in mobile crisis solutions, but you can't use it in the best ways, namely a full-scale modern gas power plant on Norwegian soil. The government has said no through its policy. There should have been a completely different approach: Support technology development, but let's also use the gas with the technology in place!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e465	The President will recall the last speaker and the forthcoming speakers on Paragraph 38 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: ‘The speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion.’ The President recalls that the debate is about a proposal for a representative to set up a fund and instrument for the development of climate-friendly technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e473	In today's discussion, it is very gratifying to see how co-ordinated one is with regard to the need to invest in precisely environmentally friendly technology to tackle the climate challenge. There has been a little temperature in the debate, and Jens Stoltenberg has been referred to. You don't have ambitions and visions, you don't disappoint anyone either. I'm left with a feeling that we from the Right today are putting forward solid ambitions about what we want from environmental technology bets. So the answer, especially from the red-green parts, is a powerful attack on the Right Environmental Profile. I had hoped and believed that we could be together politically to get a solid commitment to environmental technology. State Council Solheim himself said in his speech that the only thing that really monks in relation to the climate challenge is drastic technological innovations to win the battle. The red-green attacks on the Right Environmental Profile I take as a sign of an attempt to cover too bad results from my own policies. Last morning, on the news from the NRK, we heard that Norway was the second worst country in Europe for renewable energy production, according to the International Energy Agency. There is one area where the red-green government has played down in relation to its own ambitions. I can reassure the representatives of the red-green parties and the State Council of Solheim that the Right will deliver within the climate work. There is no contradiction, we believe, between saying that we can accept gas power without cleaning from day one and at the same time be clear that we are a partner in the climate agreement and are responsible for it together with the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e484	There are many priorities that have been set up throughout the history of changing governments where the consideration of the world's climate has not exactly been the leading thing. But the right has nothing to come with, nothing to point to, in the climate field. There are some proposals for energy efficiency improvement that have been raised in the opposition. You have some claims about green certificates, but it was obviously very far from any agreement that was close to being signed that time, on the contrary, the heaviest clarifications about burden-sharing were left. There was absolutely nothing happening with the appropriations for renewable energy and technology development in this area under the previous government. The role that Norway has internationally has had. The opposition supports what is done. It's fine, but there was another driving over Norway's international climate exposure with this government. Anyone who saw the role that Norway played both before, during and not least during the Copenhagen Summit should recognise it. And even though I belong to those who strongly believe that we need offensive climate policies for domestic cuts, among other things. because it leads to technology development, however, I'm never going to be involved in a description that foreign cuts are somehow inferior. The rainforest bet, which the representative Astrup made a visit, is incredibly important for the building of trust between the north and the south. The representative Meling hoped and believed in unity and joy and vulture here today, but there are limits to how much moralization of climate policy one must tolerate from a party that has done finely little. One thing is what you say in the debates about climate, which is about the environment. But take a talk, for example. with the Right's own people on the Transport Committee. It is enough to look at all the OPS projects to be included in the national transport plan that will contribute to a strong increase in road traffic. It worries me. Right is one of the parties involved in the climate agreement and the things that were said about the need for reduced emissions from road traffic there, but not a few days ago the Right and Advance Party joined forces in the Bergen programme setting and strongly warned against the use of cow pricing as an instrument. Throughout the winter, we have had right-wing politicians on this pulpit – the representative Røbekk Nørve has been referred to – who have called for the launch of highly polluting mobile gas power plants in central Norway for privileged reasons, although we know that the effect on the price would be minimal. If you had done a comparison of how big CO2 cut this government has contributed in total, with what the previous one contributed, I think most people know what it would look like. After all, that is all that matters, and there is absolutely no reason for desperation on the part of this representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e502	Nikolai Astrup has had the word twice and now gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e505	I'll be brief. The representative of Marthinsen has many opportunities today to vote for offensive proposals from the opposition in the field of the environment. I hope she takes that chance. Let me just briefly say about the Bondevik II government: I guess there is no government that has given as many concessions to hydropower as the Bondevik II government did. It was the Right that initiated the introduction of CO2 tax on Norwegian cap, which is the single measure that has made the largest contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. It's okay to have it in your head. I guess no one has protected as much forest in Norway as the Børge Brende did when he was Minister of Environmental Protection. In the case of road traffic, well, look at Oslo, run by the Right and Advance Party: Road traffic is falling, the collective share is increasing dramatically. I think that's the result of sensible environmental policy with the Right in the front.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e523	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e539	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e548	The issue we are dealing with now concerns changes in the management of predators. Let's hope that the debate is also about predatory policies. Proposals seek to facilitate more flexible management of predatory animal policies and to facilitate more regional policy participation. Furthermore, the proposers request that stock targets be changed from being based on annual juveniles to count the number of actual individuals. The proposers will also be empowered by the Food Safety Authority to require the removal of pests in order to prevent animal trachea and that this should also apply to bovine animals and pure animals. Finally, the proposers ask the government to make the necessary changes to the game law in order to extend the emergency protection right to emergency workers in the event of predatory attacks against dogs and when predators act aggressively in the field. In 2004, the agreement on predatory animals was concluded between all batches on Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party and the Centre Party. The red-green government is basing its policy on this agreement. The predator agreement states that there will be 3 annual young wolves, 15 annual young bears, 39 annual young yerv, 65 annual young yerv and 858-1200 breeding pairs of queens. The agreement also provided for regional administration through six regions. This was an important instrument for the Bondevik II government, which presented predatory policies and to which the Stortinget agreed. We know that sometimes there can be a high level of conflict around predator management. That is why it is gratifying that a Joint Committee is also today fully supporting the 2004 Committee's position on quality of life. Let me quote: ‘The Committee considers that the quality of life and housing and the development of nutrition in rural areas must be taken into account in the management of predators. In the view of the Committee, the management must be carried out in a way that creates confidence between the local population and regional and central authorities.’.» There may be a high temperature in these debates. But I think that a debate like the one we have today can once again make us aware of whether there is a policy that is the right one. I'm glad. The attitude shows that today’s majority will not make any changes to predatory policies now. But at one point it is announced that one by the autumn of 2010 will have a review of the stock target for wolf and bear. The government also signals in the letter from Environment Minister Erik Solheim that they already want a broad settlement on this issue. The proposers want one to go from counting annual juveniles to counting the number of actual individuals. This does not give the majority of the Committee its assent, with different lines of argument. With regard to the proposal that decisions taken by predators should be final, the majority points to the legal certainty which lies in the possibility of challenging a decision. With regard to the proposal to empower the Food Safety Authority to require the removal of pests, the majority of the Committee points out that the management of wild game is the responsibility of the authorities responsible for predatory game and that the withdrawal of wild game must be in accordance with the laws of nature, wildlife and predatory regulations. The last proposal in the proposal for a representative, Document 8:95 S for 2009-2010, is to amend the game law in order to extend the emergency protection right. The majority of the Committee refers to the government statement at this point, where one should look at the Swedish experience of integrating a dog into the emergency guards regulations. The last seconds of my speaking time I will use to talk about the views of the Christian People's Party. We support the proposers in that the emergency protection right should be extended to dogs as well. We will in the time until the review of new stocking targets for wolves and bears assess whether we should move on to counting individuals. My final point in this article is that if we are to succeed in predator management in Norway, there must be a good interaction between central, regional and local levels of government. Interactions of this kind must be based on mutual respect in the conflicts and challenges that one at all times faces.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e581	The 2004 agreement on predators was an incredibly important step towards the management of the large predators in Norway which both ensure their survival and contribute to fewer conflicts and to a clearer framework for those who are to live and operate in areas where predators are present. The management of predators continues to be conflicty, and there are many heated discussions about what the predator agreement means and does not mean. But we should remember that the curtain back then, in 2004, was many years with enormously high levels of conflict and steep fronts. Three large-scale reports of predators had been received in ten years, and the aim was to arrive at a settlement that could stand over time, and that could create tranquility and predictability in predator management. Given how sensitive things are here, I believe that it has been quite successful. Now, six years later, we're there to review the stocking targets for bears and wolves, and we're going to evaluate the current land differentiation in the predatory game regions. However, the basic principles of the predatory agreement are established. The fact that these principles are still in place means that a good craft was done by those who negotiated the 2004 agreement on predators, although, naturally, we see disagreements in some individual cases. Proposals are subject to regional policy co-decision. So am I. The fact that predatory policies have credibility locally, where people actually live with predators, is crucial to respect laws and regulations and for good governance. The regional surveyors established in the wake of the predatory settlement shall ensure that this is the case. Those who are to implement predatory policies are those who can make management plans; they are those who are to allocate funds to anti-conflict measures and, in particular, set quotas for hunting and killing once the regional stock target has been reached. That decisions in the names can be appealed against, I believe, of course. It is a principle that applies in all parts of the administration, and it is important for legal certainty that there is an opportunity to complain. I think – with all due respect – that it is incredibly strange that the Progress Party is so dedicated to removing the appeal. It is obvious to ask whether this is the result of a principle approach to access to justice, and whether we are going to see proposals to remove it in other areas as well. But when that is said, I would like to say that there must be a very high threshold for the Ministry of the Environment to be able to re-approve decisions of the denominators. In rare cases — because rarely happens — there should be a heavy professional justification for this. At least equally important for the local anchoring, I think it's that people should be able to trust that the numbers of populations they're operating on are actually right. We see very well that disagreement between community and nature management about how many animals you actually have is a germ of distrust and makes good cooperation difficult. If you are constantly observing wolves in an area, but you are told by the administration that the animal does not exist, it is, of course, very difficult to trust that a stock target has not been reached. This is why we are concerned with both monitoring and stock registration and, in particular, increasing local participation. The DNA registration of bear, where local hunters are involved in the collection, is a very good example of how this can happen. In the proposal, representatives are asked to change the stock targets from being based on the number of annual juveniles to counting the number of actual individuals. When the number of juveniles is selected, it is mainly because it is easier to monitor than the number of individuals, and because it provides very important information about the development of predatory populations. However, there have been challenges – it is not possible to hide – especially in the case of bears, when we know that there have been many more male bears going around than the estimates based on the number of juveniles. This means that a new model has now been created for the calculation of juveniles of bears, which are better adapted to the situation in Norway. The question of dog emergency is a repeater in this room, and I assume that the opposition is very well aware that this comes as a separate matter to the Stortinget. In the case of emergency workers, it was emphasised by the opposition that this is a matter which must come as quickly as possible. Soria Moria II states that we need to look at the experiences that have been gained in Sweden. We all know that those experiences have been good. I think it is good that we have another opportunity to discuss the principles of predator management in Stortinget. It is good that there is a debate on these things, and I look forward to the round that will soon come where a new settlement will be negotiated on stock targets for wolves and bears.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e602	In a recent collection, I had the doubtful joy of listening to the challenges of the foreign communities. The frustration and rascal that that assembly presented was tangible and understandable. When it comes to nutrition and bowing, there is a limited room for action that the inhabitants of these edges have, and they clearly express it, and that it threatens their way of life. We can read in Moss Avis on April 24 about Karen Eg Taraldrud as in an article telling us about his reduced quality of life after the wolf has settled in her vicinity. Ope admits she's afraid of wolf. That the wolf is dangerous to us human, she justifies that two people are killed by the wolf only in the last six months. The nation writes that one assumes that there was a wolf who killed 23-year-old teacher Candice Berner in Chignik Lake, Alaska, and 19-year-old Taylor Mitchell, who died in a hospital after attack from two coyotes in Nova Scotia. Then a person might think of it as something like that, but when one feels like it, it weakens the quality of life. And that happens in an area in Norway where, after the predatory settlement, it shouldn't be wolf. It is a fact that when many refer to the record number of reported predators, with the resulting financial burdens in addition to the bovine and reindeer tragedy involved, it is not based on feelings and beliefs but a reality. This shows that today’s predatory policy increases the level of conflict in District Norway and clearly shows the need for a revision and that a change in the management of predatory policies is long overtime. The level of the conflict is high and, after the opinion of the Progress Party, is too high. There are many examples of why the level of conflict is increasing. The so-called Galventispa is an example. She was moved after eight months of hunting, stunned and moved to a sheep-free area. But before this move, wolfeispa had taken many sheep and done damage for large amounts. In other words, a million was spent before a helicopter was helped to move the pest. What was the basis for this temptation to trap the wolfispa? Yeah, it was that the genetic value she represented was big and rare. But a few weeks after the area became wolf-free, a new tick came into the area, so the argument about rare and important genetic material falls on rock bottom. Not so many days before this wolf did much damage to the sheep population in what was supposed to be a wolf - free area. It makes sense to give birth permits to this Galventispa 2 after she's taken the life of about 25 sheep in the Neeroset in Ringsakes. I read in today's news that she is now shot and no longer represents any danger, and well it is. In view of this and many other examples, the proposalers have taken up this important issue in order to obtain an evaluation of predatory policies, which, in many cases, are out of control, with record replacement cases and therefore record financial payments, and because of the suffering that the buffalo is suffering, and pressure on a way of life at the edges that more and more people are aware of is unsustainable. We look at the notion that we have the Center Party with us in the argument about this problem. Unfortunately, this does not appear in this debate in this Chamber, and shows that the Central Party has failed the districts. We look forward to the Center Party saying that there are too many predators and new predators in the government, but also in this case the Socialist Left Party is winning. Once again, the center party must stand up as one that does not ring about district values. So finally some words about the emergency court, which, in our opinion, must apply to the dog. All the experience from our neighbouring countries shows that there are few cases where action is required to defend a dog. It is then said by representatives that the Progress Party and the proposers know that this will be the case in this Chamber. The question, then, is when? We see today that there is a lookout for a crash that goes idle, and that the Storting is asking for cases, so I would like to see this matter come quickly, so that we can decide this in an appropriate and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e630	The President shall assume that the representative, following this statement, also wishes to support and address his own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e633	That's what I want!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e638	The representative Oskar Jarle Grimstad has thus taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e641	Among other things, the target of the predatory settlement was: to relax predatory policies, but experience in the years since the conciliation was concluded shows that it has not been clear. In many communities in the administrative zones, there is a strong sense of being overcome by the big community by having to pay a high price for having viable predatory wildlife populations here in the country. Lack of ability to take out predators who behave subtly or harm, gives a strong sense of powerlessness. It reduces the quality of life of many communities, who feel that they have little impact on their living conditions. It is reported that several observed predators, several killed or severely injured dogs and other domestic animals as a result of predatory attacks, without those who have happened, feel that the situation is being drawn seriously. Pre-population predators have dramatic consequences for well-being and security in a community. It will often be horrifying for those who are going to live in such areas, not least people who are not used to living with predators. There is also a strong tradition of farming, hunting and outdoors. Many suggest that there is a large increase in the populations of several predatory species since the predatory settlement was concluded. This makes it urgent to take a full review of the whole robber deal. Right has great confidence in local self-government and believes that it is important that the most possible management of predators takes place locally, almost as much as they are in debt. National laws, regulations and stocking targets for the individual administrative region shall form the basis for the administration. Right is that the regional, populous predators must have real authority, without being tried by government agencies. The right is therefore in favour of this proposal. Right-wing thinks that the "number of young people" is problematic. It is interpreted by the game management as being young, so one is almost guaranteed that the stock target will be met long before one has recorded the actual size of the stock. This is unfortunate, and it gives a wrong picture of the situation. In Østlandingen on 2 June, senior advisers at the Directorate of Nature Management Knut Morten Vangen state that there is a potential for five young wolves in Norway this year, but that one will not have information about this until the summer, perhaps not until winter. DN is therefore not allowed to join the wolf flock until the target population of three juveniles has been documented. This is not good enough. On the right, however, the government's disbursement and reassessment of the stock target for wolf and bear will be awaited before the stock target may be changed from the number of juveniles to the number of individuals. In the case of wolves, there is a reasonable overview, but using the number of juveniles as a stock target is a consistent one year after real development. For bears and other predators, it's more unintelligible. Right will therefore not support this submitted at this time. Right is that predatory wildlife management is their responsibility, and predatory game withdrawals must take place according to the laws of nature, wildlife and predatory regulations. Therefore, the right will not support the submission of an extension of powers to the Food Authority. When Stortinget dealt with the changes in natural disasters laws, necessity was an important theme. Despite the fact that the government has had several figures behind her for almost five years, she has not been able to conclude in the matter of a dog's nudity. This is a new example of strong unease and refusal of action by the government. In spite of the positive experience gained in Sweden with the introduction of new legislation during this period, which means that noodles are to be applied to dogs, the government party is nevertheless voting against the introduction of such a system in Norway. Right means that the time has come to give the opportunity to defend the dog by direct assault by the wolf, and therefore supports this proposal. Right means that the time has come to evaluate the predatory game deal, and one has to base the acceptance and approval that living with the predatory game closes up on itself causes stress by reducing the quality of life and losing dishes. These privileges must be completely replaced. Zone policy is a reserve policy. If this policy is to continue, the Storting must make it clear that the areas are reserved, with the consequential consequences both to all user interests and to the general public. No place of prey shall have such special protection that man shall not have the right to protect himself or his. Several of the predators are cross-border. It is therefore challenging to manage them only within Norway's borders. The possibilities for joint management with adjacent regions in our neighbouring countries should therefore be clarified. Right will support points I and II of the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e677	The representative, Marthinsen, said very wisely about the importance of a predatory settlement, trying to find solutions that could create security and tranquillity in the debate on predator management and reduce the level of conflict and adverse effects as much as possible. I don't intend to keep a long post. The councils have the word soon, and he's going to explain well both the government's and SV's position. But I have a few comments. The party of progress is interesting, because they alternate between saying that SV is always being overrun, last in the debate last week, when Ketil Solvik-Olsen allowed himself to call the party – what was it – satisfied Pusekat, until today, according to the representative Grimstad's words, to be a party that always wins, and wins too much. As usual, the Socialist Left Party has had a breakthrough, said the representative Grimstad. I am, of course, very pleased that the representative Grimstad is able to see that SV is a party that has a strong influence on Norwegian policy. But I realize that there are some temporary intentions out there and go here, and the Progress Party's new rival relations with the Center Party may have something to do with the matter. It's not a very fair way to debate the Progress Party, where they are fully aware that most of the parties on the Stortinget are in for a predatory settlement, and that the red-green parties are very much in agreement about it. It is only exceptional that the Ministry of the Environment has found it necessary to reverse decisions on hunting quotas and quotas for the killing of wild game caught by the predators. It is only proposal No. 4 I'm going to say something about here, because it raises an interesting question. Both commercial interests and environmental protection interests may have an interest in being able to appeal decisions taken in the robbers. It's really saying itself. Access to justice is something quite natural in any administration. Therefore, proposing to remove this right of appeal is a poor proposal from the proposers. The fact that the Right supports the proposal is all the more surprising. The lot is usually very comfortable with its legal security image. I am convinced that trust in the administration, the desire for a low level of conflict, and the certainty that one is well cared for for for legal certainty, are not worthy of removing this right of appeal. Nor do I think that will at all contribute to the dampened level of conflict and the reduced degree of acute and harsh conflict that I believe is our common objective in predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e688	The debate on today's predatory and predatory management is important. The centre party is concerned that we have a predator management that takes seriously and respects those who are going to live and feed in predatory areas. We do not necessarily believe that the ultimate measure to strengthen the legitimacy of predatory game management is to remove the admissibility of decisions by predators or other parts of the administration. It is well that we have to assume that a removal of the ability to appeal is either too restrictive or too liberal. We don't think that's what's going on in the Center Party. At the same time, it is important for me to be told that there should be a very high threshold for lifting decisions made in the regional predators. We are also forced to continue working with the organization and how we bring up the subjects. We must dare to take that debate. It is important that predators are firmly anchored in the areas where they are responsible for administration. In order to anchor the administration of the regions concerned, it is at least equally important, in the view of the Centre, that those parts of the administration which are in contact with the local population and the economic operators pay particular attention to respecting the challenges of living and feeding in areas with high predatory pressures, and that one cooperates constructively and well with the local population. Observations and findings made must be registered and followed up. The experience-based knowledge that the local population has and that they have accumulated over generations in relation to land use in general, but also in relation to predators, needs to be taken seriously and exploited. In addition, file registration is a priority for the proposers. Here, from the Center Party's page, we want to refer to the work that is now being done in connection with bear stock registration, and the improvements that have been made in DNA registration, which help us to get a better overview of how many individuals exist. This is also an area where it is important to continue working. Ensuring the best possible overview of the numbers of individuals and having knowledge of the wild game is crucial to having a good game management. In the Center Party, we are also happy that the government has announced a review of the stockpiles of bears and wolves, and that will give us the chance to discuss in the Chamber here at a later stage. And then the proposers want food surveillance to be authorized to extract pests. I believe that for both grazing animals and animal owners there is every reason to believe that more important than anyone who takes out the pests is that it is actually done, and that it is done quickly. Injury shall be eliminated and it is important that this is done as soon as the damage is minimised. Furthermore, it is important that a user actively uses track snow to extract potential pests in the areas where the grazing animals have priority. Today, we have too many cases of predator attacks in the areas where the grazing animals are to have the right to prince. Too high predators in these areas not only lead to resource-requiring hunting and damage hunting and to large amounts of compensation; it is also a burden for those who have to find their animals healthy or severely damaged. We must have respect for the feelings that it saw in turn among people. Similarly, we must have respect for the fear that parents have of releasing their children from the garden on a pavement where the bear is sometimes observed. Taking away predators that are nearby or occur abnormally is therefore an important part of ensuring predatory policy legitimacy among people in predatory areas. From the centre party's side, we look forward to the matter of predatory policy when the stock is to be revised, as the government has promised. In that work, it must be an overarching objective to create a predatory policy that has greater legitimacy among those who are to live in predatory areas, and who are sometimes to deal with them. When it comes to emergency, it's been called by several people here. So the question of dog emergency comes back to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e712	Let me first start with the big picture, which I'll come back to later. Today, the survey addresses eight different environmental policy issues. In five of them, the main proposal is to put environmental policy back in Norway. In three of them, there are essentially proposals that the government should do what the government already does. But if we look at the sum of this, a very interesting political picture – a picture of a Right who jumps on the proposals of the Advance Party in areas by region – areas where the Right never stood for it before – and an image of a cooperation between the government parties and the Christian People's Party. We haven't moved yet to vote, so I'm not going to advance Left's view, but I won't be surprised if they agree with the Christian People's Party and the government parties on almost all of the proposals here. So that's at least a very interesting political picture we see. To stick to the president's suggestion to talk about the matter: in predatory politics, the view of the government parties and certainly of the Christian People's Party is that we should do what we can to reduce conflicts in this area. I therefore react a little when the Progress Party seems to be very, very well not by reducing conflict, but by whipping up to conflict, probably in the belief that you can win votes on it. It would not be foolish if someone in Norway, for example, are afraid to be killed by wolves based on a few extremely few tragedies elsewhere in the world, to mention the fact that, at least as far as I know, there is not one documented case in Norway where any human being has been killed by wolves. It doesn't mean that it can't happen, but it means that the probability of it at least isn't great, because over the 150 years you've had evidence of this, it hasn't happened. The challenge for the Advance Party is that they also bring this information out in contact with the voters, so that we can reduce and not whip up the fear. Then I can join almost everything that was said by the case rapporteur about the review of the individual cases that have been proposed. The exception there is a need for dogs. The government will come back to that. We notice, of course, the views of many of the great parties in that area. I will come back to it in an orderly manner later, also on the basis of assessments of how this has worked in Sweden, and on the basis of the differences in the regime between Norway and Sweden — and what the possible introduction of dog emergency response will mean for the withdrawal of revolving lead wolves, and how it will work. We're going to get back to this. The main proposal that has been put forward is the proposal to give regional predators absolute power in this area. I agree with what Snorre Serigstad Valen said about it. It's a proposal that at least it's nice that the Right has accepted. So it's a proposal where there will be no appeal in this area, and where you don't have the two-step strategy that the Right in the interests of the rule of law very often stands for, that is to say, that we place great emphasis on what the regional predatory name comes up. There are very few cases where this is overtested. The last thing I can think of was the question of gaupe in the predatory game topic for Møre and Romsdal and South-Trøndelag, which the Stortinget has dealt with before, but essentially we are based on what the regional predators come up with. I agree with Erling Sande that it should be a very high threshold to go against it. Nevertheless, if a national policy is to be adopted, Norway should be able to set national targets in this area, it must also be possible, ultimately, to review what is happening locally in general national interests. It also gives business interests, farmers' organisations, environmental organisations and all an opportunity to appeal to the Ministry of the Environment for a decision they believe to be crazy. As for the proposal to change the stock targets from being based on annual youth to counting the number of actual individuals, I don't think anyone in the Storting has any religious, principled attitude to it, that it has to be like that or that. It's a practical question of what's the most appropriate way. So far, we have come to the conclusion that it is most appropriate to measure the number of young people, because it is easier to monitor in a precise and appropriate way, but that is of course something that can be continuously assessed, in line with new technologies in the field. We also provide, as we mentioned earlier in Stortinget, a new model for calculating the juveniles of bears that are better adapted to the situation in Norway. The proposal that the Food Authority should be able to intervene directly, I feel that it is a violation of what is the second element of the proposal that has been promoted, namely that regional predators should be very much influenced. It is not entirely up to us both to believe it and that the Food Safety Authority should be the ones who intervene. I believe that this proposal should be left to us and that it is the relevant game authorities that should make the balance in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e727	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e730	Now, when Galventispa 1 was involved, it went eight months before you were able to remove Galventispa when you moved. Doesn't the Council of State see that a bureaucratic system, such as one experienced around the management of this Galventispa, weakens the legitimacy of the predatory administration, not to mention the economic resources used in a district where the possibilities of having a decent income are very limited? Does the Council not see that there is provocation in the large use of resources on a wolf, which takes the operating base and motivation of local businessmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e737	Let me say that I fully accept that there was a difficult balance last summer, whether to kill Galventispa. We thought it was a genetically very important wolf and therefore did a lot to make it survive. Then it makes no sense to say that it went eight months, for the eight months were at the time when there was no sheep on the pasture. I promised the agricultural organisations in Hedmark last fall that we would not go into a new grazing season with Galventispa in areas with a lot of sheep farming. That promise was kept, so Galventispa was moved before the grazing season. It doesn't matter which of the months of the year Galventispa went loose in the woods of Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e744	I hope the Council of State agrees that we should have predators in the Norwegian fauna, but I, who have many periods of wildly locality, are in the situation that if I am forced to choose, I choose Red Heat. There is now good evidence that there is more revir than that underlying the predatory agreement, e.g. Linnacle revirus. It is also reported from my county that there is a new possible territory in Sarpsborg, in the Skjeberg Valley, and the question to the Council of State is what the Council of State wants. Does he want to allow increased taxation to enforce the predatory settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e751	We have wild game debates about. once a month, or every fourteen days, in Stortinget. It has not been long since it was made explicitly clear – we had a long debate on this – that we should come back with goals for the breeding wolf and bear of the Stortinget, and of course the Right will be invited – the Progress Party too – to discuss it in order to settle it. As part of that, of course, we'll try to get as much information as possible about the existing revere and maximum knowledge of the actual situation. We can't base it on any newspaper statement that it might be a territory somewhere. We are totally dependent on the good management, the great knowledge base we have, obtaining the best possible information. Then we're based on it, and then we're going back to the Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e756	The council said the government would do what it can to reduce the conflict in the case of predators, and that's good. There is an overall committee in this position, and there was also an overall committee in 2004 which said that the management of predators must take into account the quality of life and housing and the development of nutrition in the districts. But then it also said something important: «Management must, in the Committee's view, be carried out in a way that creates confidence between the local population and regional and central authorities.» We're now going into a grazing season. My question to the Council of State is: What is the plan of the Council of State for this grazing season we are now going into in order to create confidence between the local population and regional and central authority and try to reduce the conflicts that we know will come with a grazing season?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e770	I think the most important single element in such a plan is that we should have quick extraction of pests when we see damage of some extent. That's exactly what we had in Hedmark, where the countyman quickly gave permission to take out what was called Galventispa 2. One of the most important things is that when you see any damage, there should be a low threshold for quick withdrawal. It was also part of what was in the material here. Professionals, i.e. the state's natureguards and others, are supposed to help local hunting teams, we want local hunting teams to do the job. I was in Hedmark, I think it was three weeks ago, and met the local predatory game subject, a number of agricultural organizations and others. We will also provide money support from day one to allow local hunting teams to make the outreach, but they will be able to get the help and assistance from the State's nature agency that they need in such a task. It is the most important single measure. I could say a lot different too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e777	Conflict mitigation is an important part of predatory game management. We see some examples of male bears, especially wintering in some areas – not just one winter, but two and three winters. These bears have been well supplied by the sheep population both summer and harvest, then go in hi, come out and lie back and wait for the sheep to be released on pasture. It's probably not particularly fun for the sheep farmers to let go of the sheep right in the mouth of the bear. In this context, a number of applications have been submitted concerning the felling of bears on snow, which are rejected by the Directorate and by the Ministry. Will the Council of State ensure that detachment on track snow becomes a timely and effective anti-conflict response?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e786	Of course, each such application and each such case will be considered. However, when the professionals in this field have thought that hunting for track snow is not a generally good measure, it is because it is thought to be very unpresist. The male bears that we're talking about here are male bears that are moving across a very large area. They don't have a revir, like a wolf, and don't stay, like wolves often do, in a relatively small area. They can move across large areas, so taking them out right after they get out of here, gives no guarantee that you get to take the right bears. You risk taking someone who doesn't do much damage, while bears that do a lot of damage are not taken. I therefore believe that it is a much more precise instrument to allow quick withdrawal when damage is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e791	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e797	I notice that the Council of State is trying to minimize the fear of predators by referring to foreign tragedies, where people have been killed. But I can tell the council that it's not particularly pleasant to have wolves around the house corners and that's if not a daily one, so at least a weekly experience. I am pleased that the Council of State came to the matter and was not only concerned with party constellations. When, as the Council of State says, there are constant debates on predatory policies, it is probably because the government has chosen the map and not the terrain. It is quite clear that the map does not match the terrain – it is not just random newspaper headlines. I myself am in the wild this period – I have done it for several periods before – and only see in my counties as regards the deer population, especially in the border areas, and then on the east side of Glomma, that the landowners who have large forest estates, and who have these not only to drive outdoors, but also to have it as nourishment, experience that the tax on deer game is almost zero. There is now good evidence that there are more breeding wolf families and that there are more wolf flocks than those underlying the predatory settlement. Among other things, the University of Hedmark has documented this, and documentation is constantly coming in. There aren't random people doing these observations. There is a lot of good experience in local wildlife that reports on both spores, animals and herrings where predators have been on the move. It is the local communities that bear the burden of today's predatory policy. People in the rural areas of my area, in the border regions, wonder about all the good resources that actually flow to local communities to make it attractive to live there, while, on the other hand, not having the opportunity to apply the necessary tax. There are challenges for local communities. These are challenges for those who live outdoors, and not least for those who are landowners. The right looks forward to the review that the government will have, although we think that five years in the chair suggests that this should have been done a long time ago – that's probably a wait-and-see attitude. We see that the central party has lost this matter in the government, and this is how it is that SV enforces predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e810	Earlier in this case, there has been a talk of predictability and calm in the administration, and that the report of robbers has helped to create this situation. It can be discussed. When you read, among other things: Local newspapers from Uppland today, you can see that the sheep farmers are waiting for a bloodbath, again. On my question, the Council of State replied that male bears are moving across large areas and that falling on track snow is ‘unresistant’. When a bear overwinters in one area and comes out again, takes sheep in this area, goes a round, comes back and takes sheep, winters, gets up again the year after, takes sheep, goes a round, comes back to the area, takes more sheep, walks in hi and repeats this three or four times, you know exactly which bear this is. You know exactly where the bear is, and you can go in and take that exact bear as soon as it goes out of here. Nevertheless, the Council of State claims that this becomes ‘unresistant’. And so: In Oppland, three applications for killing have been submitted this year. The first one, which was rejected, was delivered on 25 January, and it was then appealed to the department. It has not yet been dealt with! On 29 April, a claim was made for damage to the bear. They received an answer on Friday. On 7 May an application was also submitted, i.e. an appeal, and it has not yet been answered. Maybe the department doesn't reject so many anchors. When they don't answer, they can say they haven't rejected them, they just haven't wanted to answer. This suggests an arrogance that is incompatible with a good predatory policy that can be anti-conflict. I think that the Council of State, with that attitude, is part of whipping up an atmosphere, which the Party of Advancement was also accused of doing. Most of the games in this room are grouped together about the rapture message, and that might be right. But I know that most of the parties around Norway, who are in the predatory game subjects, are strongly opposed to the report. They want major changes in the message. I think that the government parties had made a lot of money listening to their local politicians – then we might have got a rapture message that is in line with reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e823	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e842	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e851	The proposal we are now considering is to change the requirements for CO2 management in new gas power plants. We have already had one partly heated discussion about climate change in the hall earlier today, where the parties managed to be with each other the most for the development of climate technology. In this case, two of the lots agree to remove the requirement to clean up new gas power in Norway. It is shown, among others: to the extent that there are significant technological challenges related to capture and storage technologies and that ‘the current technological solutions for the purification of gas power do not therefore appear to be commercial’. Here I quote the Progress Party and the Right. I fully understand that cleaning gas power is demanding – I think many of us are after the last few weeks. I have to admit that after a few weeks of debate and hearings on Mongstad with claims that the technology is not only ‘available’, as the department has written in its letter, but that it is full of daily stories that the moon landing took place in 1983, that in China they have land on the moon for small money, and that there are therefore technology suppliers in queues, who can guarantee that they can deliver a clean technology that both works and is cheap, it is a little strange to hear the parties who have made themselves the spokesperson for these claims claim that it is impossible to make demands for the purification of gas power in Norway. I also think it is a bit strange to present it as if removing cleaning requirements is a sort of free lunch. The progress party was not on the climate agreement, but it was on the right. They have contributed to a commitment to reduce Norwegian domestic emissions by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes by 2020. It is not that many weeks since we received a Climate Change Assessment on cost, and not least impact, in all conceivable and unimaginable climate action in Norway. The main conclusion was that this was expensive, this is demanding, it is quite difficult, and it will cost a lot of money. Getting large emissions from gas power production in Norway is going to cost us something, of course it will! It's going to cost us a lot in terms of action in other areas to achieve our 2020 objective, which I guess the Right is taking seriously. Well, at least we're doing it. The last time I heard something from the Right and Advance Party on the Renewable Directive, they also agreed that this is a directive that is EEA-relevant and that Norway has to take. Although it is not clear what Norway’s commitments will be, it is very unlikely that we will end up being able to reduce Norwegian renewable share, filling with significant amounts of fossil energy, without having to be compensated for by renewables in order to keep the share up. Renewable energy is for us – for all things! But it's expensive, and that means natural intervention. This scenario is also getting quite strange, given that what the big energy actors are saying about the future, about what the world will look like by 2020, is about the Nordics becoming a surplus area of power. It is a challenging image for those who are concerned with incentives for renewable and technological development in that area. Then we have challenges in some areas. Middle Norway is the most obvious example of that. There is a strong consensus that more networks are needed to get rid of bottlenecks and to make the power market function properly. I would also like to say that the cleaning requirement does not mean that there are no interesting gas power projects with cleaning in Norway where the authorities can play a role. In particular, the proposal refers to Industrikraft Møre, and there are many interesting elements in that project, such as: the possibility of agreements with the offshore companies concerning country-by-country electrification. Since the socket is not covered by the renewable directive, the project will not be covered by that problem either, so it is good to signal from them that further work is being done against the authorities on that project. But the requirement for CO2 management at new gas power plants is firm, and it is clearly established in Soria Moria II. I have to say that I look forward to, and hope, in the forthcoming debate that we will hear the Right's explanation on how to achieve national climate targets, if we are to get an impact on the proposal we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e878	It is not that changing CO2 handling requirements automatically leads to greater emissions. I would like to use this article to refer to an example that will reduce emissions by accepting deferred requirements. Industriekraft Møre has today a concession that requires full cleaning from day one, and in our opinion there should be a postponement. With a proactive approach to climate challenges and energy needs in Central Norway, a look at solutions that affect all parties. The question is how. At the start of Industrial Power Møre, one could take over the role of spare power plants and they could be dismantled. We're going to have a double efficiency plant in relation to today's reserve power plant and halved emissions. We will be able to get an agreement with the offshore companies on electrification from land and installations at sea. It will open up synergies with wind power projects that have been granted a concession in the region, as well as a change in production strategy, so that wind power, excess power in other regions and varying yields can be fully exploited. Through this scheme, we get a facility that provides good security of supply and solves problems related to high area prices and transmission losses. In winter, such a plant would have gone too full, while in other years it would have been much less useful. In a plant thus operated, it should be easier to accept that clean-up does not have to be required from day one. In any case, the plant will be prohibited from cleaning, as is the case with all the plants being supplied today, and the change in the requirement for cleaning must also come into a different light after the government's reassessment of the progress in Mongstad, where it is established that full-scale cleaning will not be in place until early 2018. Everyone knows that before that time there is a need for significant more power both for the Worm Long Phase 2 and possible electrification of existing and new installations in the Norwegian Sea. I mention in this context Heidrun, Åsgard, Kristin, Luva and Onyx. In addition, we see that Hydro Sunndal probably starts up again production too fully in the fall, which is very positive, but at the same time it becomes a significant challenge for the power situation in the region. If one sets an absolute requirement for CO2 handling for Industrial Power More from the first day, the result may be that one sit back with the reserve power plant and power generated offshore, and both of these options have double CO2 emissions relative to Industrial Power More, choose to mark without CO2 handling on this plant just now! Without such a requirement, one could have a win-win situation, where one takes care of the needs of both industry and the inhabitants of the region. We can get rid of the expensive and environmentally demanding crisis solution that the reserve power plants represent, using common sense and changing the requirements for immediate CO2 cleaning from day one. When we read today that Statnett describes a comprehensive list of measures covering the transfer of precisely these backup power plants to Hordaland, which has produced strong reactions across Central Norway, and that they will stop new consumers from accessing the central network until network reinforcements are completed, it simply means no new start-up of business in Central Norway. It's totally unacceptable and shows a government that's out of control and untrustworthy, if they don't see alternative solutions that are open to us and should be used. I'll take our proposal into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e924	Our electricity supply is mainly based on hydropower. It makes us vulnerable, because within this energy system we depend on years of normal rainfall. Last year, this vulnerability has become visible. A cold and dry winter has made the filling density of the water reservoirs low, and we have imported electricity from our neighbouring country. However, the gas power plant at Kårstø has also contributed significantly to the power balance this year. Norway is a major exporter of natural gas to, inter alia: The continent. In fact, from a climate perspective, we are encouraging our neighbouring countries to make more use of gas to replace coal-fired power stations, since gas only has half of the carbon-fired climate emissions. In Europe, too, this form of energy is seen as an environmentally good energy production. In Norway, on the other hand, the government imposes requirements for CO2 cleaning from the first day for new gas power plants. This is considered to be so commercially demanding that in the foreseeable future we are unlikely to expect new gas power plants. The right-wing believe that this is regrettable. As has been said in debates earlier today, there is a contradiction between one on the one hand postponing Mongstad and cleaning at Mongstad, while the other on the other hand demands that cleaning technology be in place from day one in new gas power plants. The right is also concerned that we should invest in research and development to bring forward commercial gas power plant cleaning technologies. That is why we have supported, inter alia: the investment that is taking place in Mongstad. The difference is that the Right believes that we have to be able to make demands for cleaning arrangements, but that cleaning itself should not be a requirement from the start-up. Right is part of the climate agreement, and we are aware that unpurified concession means that cut greenhouse gas emissions will be more demanding overall. However, we want to strengthen our own balance of power by getting a larger total production, but at least equally important is that we get a more diversified production, where we do something more independent of the hydropower alone. In this winter, parts of Norway experienced very high electricity prices. The background is a combination of bottlenecks in the grid capacity, that Swedish nuclear power was out of production due to maintenance, and that winter was cold and low in rainfall. It is unfortunate that some parts of the country, including Middle Norway, will pay such a high price for a faulty energy policy. Both individuals and businesses have had to pay this price. This applies not only to existing businesses but also to the attractiveness of an area for new business start-ups. This means that energy availability, predictable prices and competitive prices are an important element. Therefore, the Right will support the Progress Party’s proposal to change the requirement for immediate CO2 cleaning in new gas power plants and ask the Government to make the same demands in Norway as in the EU. The question is what's important at the top. The global climate challenge is important, but the energy balance and ensuring a sufficient level of security of supply are also important for a society. The more gas we use for energy production, the less coal power we need to fire. This means that gas as a substitute for coal is a good environmental solution in a transition to a society where we get more renewable and sustainable energy sources. I hope that the government will find good pragmatic solutions, including: the power situation in central Norway, that the government can keep a focus on short-range power and, inter alia: take a positive view of the process that Industriekraft Møre is now working on. With regard to the insertion of the representative Marthinsen, the representative says that the Right is in agreement with the Advance Party on the requirement that gas power should not be discharged. What Mr Marthinsen forgets to say is quite important, namely that our position is that we should not require cleaning from day one. We also want to clean up, but we do not want to demand it from day one just to get up a larger and more flexible energy production.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e953	The installation by the representative Meling was an interesting exercise in view of the debate we had only today. Let me first say that the power situation in Central Norway is going to be very worried about. We have discussed that many times in the hall during the winter, which should be heard and heard. I have responded in particular to the unfair results of the way the power market in the Nordic region works today. Many times in winter it was more expensive to cook water, warm up the house and do other basic tasks in Middle Norway than it was to warm up the driveway or other luxury consumption in Oslo west. We can't do that, and that's why in the winter of the debate SV has promoted a number of proposals, which the government is going to look at, smart ways to make better use of the power grid. We look at opportunities for white certificates that can stimulate energy saving, and we want to strengthen Enova's role further. Here's a lot to do, and at least during the time it's going to take to build a new gas power plant on Møre, I believe we're going to get a lot to do to improve the power situation in Middle Norway. I would like to remind you of what I said last time we in the committee were gathered for debate in the main hall, namely that a kilowatt hour save is always better than a new kilowatt hour built. Then there is a big gap between the story we hear from the Right now, and the story we heard from the Right – not in the previous debate, but in the debate before – about two hours ago. Then we heard a message from the Right, by itself well to notice, about how visionary the Right was in 2002 when they would require cleaning from day one of gas power. This cleaning from day one cancels the right eight years later in the staging room. It's over. The party of progress, represented by the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who was very concerned with what SV wrote in the form of a note in 2002, writes the same itself in 2010, namely that ‘there are significant technical challenges related to CO2 capture and storage technologies and therefore today’s technological solutions for gas power plant cleaning do not appear to be commercial.’;» So this has joined the right hand side. This is a double communication that it's very difficult for us in the red-green parts to relate to. Either the opposition must base its attacks on the government by saying that it is too slow to get cleaned – and there is an impatience SV share; it is too slow to develop cleaning – or they must run what they are doing now, namely saying that cleaning is not so important from day one anyway. You can't do both of these at the same time. The same applies to the Right’s argument as to what these gas power plants are to be used for – i.e. industrial gas Møre cannot both be used to solve the power challenges in Norway and be taken into account for export to Europe where it is to replace coal power. You have to decide whether or not! If there had been a climate change in the Right in favour of the Advance Party's proposal here, I would expect the Right could say something in its statement about how they expect to compensate for the increased emissions this proposal will lead to. Does that mean that the right will cancel the points where they threaten to withdraw from the climate agreement? Do we want to see a Right that becomes a follower of the rush time charge? Do we want to see a Right that is willing to use tougher instruments for the oil industry, which may be willing to increase the CO2 tax offshore? It remains to be seen. I don't know, but I expect that the Right is serious with its remark that any increased emissions in one place must lead to reductions elsewhere. So far, there are right-wing problems in explaining how we're initially going to reach between 15 and 17 million. tonnes cut in CO2 emissions with its policy, because when it comes to the piece, always choose the right minimum resistance path. I expect the representative Mr Røbekk Nørve from the Right to speak later in the debate. The representative of Røbekk Nørve is going to say the diametrical opposite of what the representative of Astrup has had as a message from the Right in the debate on Mongstad. That debate is going to be a real so interesting chaos from the opposition, and I look forward to such a debate, even though I think we could have been the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e980	Even if we've had a cold winter here in Norway, we've had one of the hottest winters that's measured, if one looks the globe as a whole. This means that although the focus on climate in the media may have been lower in the last few months, the UN Panel on Climate Change has made its conclusions clear: World is facing major challenges. Greenhouse gas emissions must be brought down. The red-green government has ambitions to participate actively in global climate change. Therefore, an offensive climate target has been signalled both globally and nationally. In teams with the other government parties and the Christian People's Party, Left and Right, the Center Party entered the climate agreement on the Stortinget, as well as the Central Party. be worth between 15 million and 17 million. tonnes reduction in national CO2 emissions. To reach your goals, you have a policy that matches your goals. The government's requirement for CO2 management in the construction of gas power plants is part of such a policy. The Klimakur report also points to CO2 treatment as one of the measures to achieve the national targets for CO2 reductions. New large point emissions of CO2 would make it difficult, yes, not to say almost impossible to reach the measure of the greenhouse gas reductions Norway has seen nationally, supported by the large and wide majority in this room. If one disagrees with the UN Climate Panel and others who believe that the world is facing major challenges due to man-made climate change, there will also be no reason to be involved in a policy that adopts measures to bring these out. Or if one takes into account the conclusions of the United Nations Climate Panel, but thinks that emission reductions must continue globally based on cost-effectiveness, without individual countries committing themselves to bringing down their own national emissions, yes, then the conclusion can be the same. I don't know which one of these two lines the Progress Party is on today, but it's along these two axes the party has moved in climate policy, and then it's not unnatural to promote a proposal to ease the requirements for clearing CO2 on point emissions. For those parties to the climate agreement, such a proposal should be difficult to support at the same time as one maintains the commitments made in the climate agreement, i.e. a substantial reduction in our emissions. Once again, in the image, the Right Party appears with up to several tongues in this debate. Here one for just a few hours argued for the importance of reducing emissions globally and at national level. The representative Meling's post here today is an attempt to balance what Nikolai Astrup said earlier today, and presumably what the representative Røbekk Nørve is going to say in a few minutes. There's two different things, and it's quite obvious that one of them comes with different testimonies, depending on which assembly one speaks to. So what remains to be answered in this Chamber, in this debate, is just: where should the discharge be taken? Where to reduce emission? If you choose to increase an area, you should reduce the amount of space left on other areas. That's how far Right has our clear. Where are these other areas? We want to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1011	This case clearly shows how little overall policy the government has for the purification of gas power, at least in terms of implementation. The policy is really clear if we read the Soria Moria declaration. It was even so that the SV celebrated 10 years of victory for gas power when Soria Moria I was presented, but so it was not even supposed to go one year before SV's government participation was more important than standing on this policy. The students who started school in 2006 would be in eighth grade if we had followed the government's full-scale clean-up project at Mongstad. Now we don't know what stage they'll be at in high school, until the cleaning will be in place. If the government had been on its political base, we would have avoided the debate we have today, because then the builders would have known that there was one policy in place, and it had to be dealt with. But when there is uncertainty within government and ambiguous signals, industry, through political parties, tries to change the framework conditions. I therefore understand that Industrikraft Møre is trying to organize their future business so that they can get a green line of reasoning, despite the fact that they are not going to use cleaning from day one. I do not support this strategy, but when there are ambiguous signals about this project and other projects – it is clear in each project, but the ambiguity is evident when you put many projects next to each other – I understand that you are trying to change the line of reasoning. For the Christian People's Party, cleaning gas power is pretty simple: Demanding, yes – we say cleaning from day one. We also took the consequences of this in 2000 when we left the government offices. Then we have now had a discussion with the Right, where they might take the cuts, because this proposal will lead to increased emissions. We must be able to ask the question back, even if I support the government in this matter: Where are the Mongstad cuts to be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1026	Let me first point out that even though the representative Line Henriette Hemdal attacked the government, the case fully shows that the Christian People's Party agrees with the government and disagrees with the Right and the Advance Party. So once again, this is one of the many things that show where the real contradiction in Norwegian policy goes. The government's policy is very clear: yes, it is a difficult matter to clean the large industrial emissions and also the energy emissions already established. There's a lot of them. It's Melkøya. It's Kårstø. These are big industrial businesses. All of this is point emissions that are established in the past, under various governments, with good intentions of the Norwegian industry. Getting rid of these in retrospect is a difficult and demanding task, and Mongstad is the top project by the government in developing that technology. And of course, we hope that the technology that's being developed in Mongstad can also be applied to many of the other point emissions. What we're facing right now is something completely different. We are going to start new, difficult Norwegian point emissions in addition to those we have, which will make it much more difficult for us to achieve the overall objectives we have in the climate agreement, and which, if we were to follow the Right and the Progress Party policy here, would mean that we had to tighten much more towards Norwegian drivers, against Norwegian industry or in other areas. Because we all – with the exception of the Progress Party – agree that we should achieve the Norwegian emission target in 2020. The significance of this is even pointed out in a separate remark from the Right and Christian People's Party. I share that view, but it also means that if we now provide the opportunity to create new, large Norwegian point emissions with significant increase, we need to tighten up significantly much more, either for Norwegian industry, Norwegian car drivers or possibly for Norwegian homes. There's no other place to tighten in. It's not in cyberspace we can do it. It is on the ground, in Norway, to the Norwegian industry or to Norwegian traffic patterns. I would very much like to hear the opposition parties tell which of these areas they will then tighten up more, as they now want us to give the opportunity to open new – I repeat new – significant Norwegian point emissions. There's really not much more to say in the debate, because that's what this is about. Let me just say that I think Snorre Serigstad Valen had a primal review of Right's contradictions in the area. It's quite possible, and I have a considerable understanding that sometimes you try to roll a little over it, that the government isn't fast enough to implement red-green policies. We get up early in the morning and work hard to get better at implementing red-green policies. It's nice that the Right and Advance Party and others point out from time to time that we have to be even more good at implementing red-green policies, i.e. full-scale clean-up in Mongstad. But how that criticism that we are not fast enough, consistent enough and tough enough to implement red-green policies in Mongstad is related to the fact that, at the same time – by the way – it is not so dangerous to start new, large Norwegian dots, is not easy to get up. It is clear that it is wonderful to be in opposition – I was also in opposition for a long time – but there is a limit to how in opposition you can go both northward and southward at the same time, complain that it is too hot, and that it is too cold – to be so-called weather critic. It's not right right now, but it can't be both too cold and too hot at the same time; you have to kind of choose in which direction to correct the criticism. Then we will have a more informed and sensible debate. Finally, let me say that I am very pleased that Erling Sande pointed to what is underlying this – when we raid here – namely that the temperature of the earth is rising. So wherever you come, except in northern Europe and on the US East Coast, which has had a very cold winter, climate change is very high on the agenda. Everybody's talking about it. There have been very dramatic effects. Let me just mention that in the Chinese Yunnan province, the southernmost province in China, in a report I just read from the Norwegian Embassy, it has been eight degrees warmer than usual, with dramatic consequences. A country like China obviously has resources to deal with those consequences, but it's incredibly dramatic for people on the ground. Similar things I saw in Burma last week, and similar things I saw in Haiti and in the Dominican Republic when I was there. Similar reports are from Africa, from Singapore, from all over the globe. But because of a cold winter with us and with the rulers on the east coast of the United States, we haven't completely absorbed it. But that must be the underlying seriousness of this debate, where we can otherwise exchange fines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1045	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1049	The councils talk like Mongstad is an old plant that existed before the government took over, but it's a new red-green plant, so it's a new point release. But they lodge with the tail of Statoil to allow them to emit CO2 as long as they want, while all other actors are required to clean up from day one. In order to see if there is a logical connection in an otherwise divisive policy from the government, my challenge to the government council is this: Now Statnett has said that they would like to build mobile gas power plants in Hordaland to secure the power supply to Bergen. It's obviously a new plant. Will the Council of State then demand the cleaning of that plant, or will it be realistic and put it into use and waive the requirements for purification in such a facility?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1059	The government will have ample opportunity to come back to that question in Stortinget, but let me say that there is a fundamental difference between a mobile plant that is there for a very, very short crisis situation, which has emissions associated with a very short crisis situation, and which is to stand there permanently, for a long time. The emissions from what is a crisis solution are very, very small and have almost no significance for the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, but the establishment of large, new point sources, which are permanent and contribute to emissions, is a completely different matter. Then we get back to the question that was asked, which is for further treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1066	The next replicant is the representative Siri A. Meling, then the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen. It turns out that Valen has asked for the word for a three-minute post, and does not want to repeat it on their own state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1071	It could be interesting!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1076	Yes, it could.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1079	The temperature is rising dramatically, says the Council of State. That means we have a big challenge. The right is also impatient to move forward in combating the challenge of climate. This does not mean that we cannot have two thoughts in our head at the same time, that we can both provide energy production and be active in relation to climate challenges. Natural gas, as I said in my post, is considered environmentally friendly as a substitute for coal. Obviously, the Council of State does not share this view. I could imagine hearing him reason a little bit about it – as long as gas power only represents half of the climate emissions that coal power stations represent, and we know that the climate challenge is global.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1086	There is no doubt that gas power is more environmentally friendly than coal power, just as hydropower is more environmentally friendly than gas power, and just like energy saving – as Snorre Serigstad Valen said: Every kilowatt hour saved is the most environmentally friendly of all forms of energy. So here's a hierarchy. But what this case concerns is that when we have set ourselves the goal of reducing emissions in Norway by between 15 and 17 million. Ton, on which the Right and Government parties agree, and which is a very ambitious and difficult task, is it likely that we can achieve the goal of starting to increase? We are struggling hard to reduce all emissions, both from industry, from oil companies and from motorism – I am going to return to the climate crisis and how we are going to do it – but it is fundamentally much harder for us to achieve the goal of increasing first to reduce even more afterwards. So if you want to start going downhill, you don't get to start going uphill.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1095	I find it interesting to hear the Council of State trying to settle down ashore in relation to the fact that one type of gas power plant is to be cleaned and another type is not to be cleaned. Let me then try a third type of gas power plant on a Norwegian base. Is the CO2 there so dangerous in the world of state councils that the type of gas power plant will be cleaned in the future, or will he continue to permit the construction of gas power plants without cleaning there? The point of this is just to show that the government's policy is not related. Selecting some areas that are symbolically important requires purification, although they admit in Mongstad that the technology is not available, while in all other contexts where gas power plants are built – large and small – there is no requirement for purification. But the opposition has a lot of mouth if one wants to build the most efficient form of gas power plant without cleaning today. We're not saying we'll never clean up in the future. We are just saying that we have to make the same demands as the European Union on cleaning, and then we have to organise cleaning at a later stage. But Norwegian base – on which new power plants will there be a requirement for cleaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1107	If I now look in a different direction than on Ketil Solvik-Olsen, it's not to be tipped off by the stick of the attempt to believe that Grimas can get a councillor to be tipped off by the stick. So it's not that simple. What I wish Solvik-Olsen could sometimes do was take on the seriousness of the situation. The seriousness was well described by Sande, and it is also well described here by the various speakers. The reality is that the earth is warming up. It's a very dangerous situation. We in Norway have to do what we can to reduce that problem. And then the main point of view of the government parties – and fortunately also of the Christian People's Party and the Left – is that you can't start by reducing a problem by increasing it. And that's what would be the case if you went in to allow new, large gas power plants, large, new point emissions. So in the process of reducing something, you would start by increasing it, which would make it a lot, a lot harder to achieve the goal that all parties other than the Advance Party have joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1112	He did not answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1117	It's a serious situation. That's why I think the winner and the celebration that SV had in 2005 when the Soria Moria statement was made was very warm, because now 10 years of gas power struggle was over. But despite this, we were not to go further than until 2006, when we received the Mongstad decision, which means that those who started school in 2006 would have gone in step 8 and been teenagers when full-scale cleaning was in place. My question is – just to try to understand the line of reasoning here: What is the difference between the decision of the government in Mongstad and other matters? There are new plants we're talking about, and they're in regions that need power. What is the political difference between the 2006 decision and the subsequent rejections, when we take seriously what the Christian People's Party shares with the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1125	The whole of the 1970s I used to fight the ACP and all of its beings, and one of the main problems of the ACP was that they attacked most of those who were most in agreement with them. [[m-l]] [[m-l]] The longer away from those you stood, the less interested they were in it. Those who were closest, but just a little bit different, they got the main attack. That's what I don't understand with the Christian People's Party, which, in the sum of all things here today, essentially agrees with the government, with a few very few exceptions. When one is impatient, would the government want to implement the promise we have made more quickly, would it have more of the red-green policy that the government stands for, why is it systematically directed against the government parties instead of seeing the overall picture? We agree on the main challenges. On the other hand, the Right Party and the Advance Party – and especially now the Right Party – will, in the sum of these matters and the matter we have in front of us now, open new gas power plants, which, therefore, the Christian People's Party and the government parties agree that we should not. It's a really dangerous line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1130	Next – and last – replicator, representative Henning Skumsvoll. The President will draw attention to the fact that in this type of cord changer, it is sometimes that, for example: The progress and the right can have two lines. If the representatives so wish, they will have the lines in a row, so as to keep a thread in the debate. This can be done by a marker when a line is requested, that one wishes both lines to which the lot belongs, for example. using both fingers when a word is asked. The President prefers you to start with the index finger!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1135	The Council of State says that new point emissions cannot be allowed by the government, because it will go beyond the quota you want to reduce in total. But Industrial Power Møre also wants to build gas power plants, just like the Mongstad gas power plant – I myself have been to Mongstad two weeks ago. It's during start-up, so it must be said to be a new plant, too. I think that the government here clearly makes a difference to Industrial Power Møre's intended facilities and what is built in Mongstad. So my question to the Council of State is whether he can point out a technology that allows Industriekraft Møre to get going faster, to secure the power supply to Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1140	It's not up to me to specify technology. I recorded in the public debate around Mongstad that a number of technology suppliers claim that they have technology that can be immediately integrated and used in a new gas power plant. If that is the case, then it's free opportunity for it, and not just that, but it would be great if Industrialkraft Møre could start a new gas power plant on Møre with integrated CO2 management from the start. It will receive full applause from the government, and it will be in line with what we have heard in the debate, that there is such technology available that can be used from day one. I can't be a judge of whether that'll be possible. It can only clarify the industrial technological process and the economic process between Mora and any suppliers of such technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1148	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1153	Despite reduced production by Hydro Sunndal, Møre and Romsdal have a deficit of between 5 and 6 billion. kWh per year years, which must be transferred from other parts of the country. With a lack of transfer capacity, there have been major challenges for industry as well as households in More and Romesdal and Trøndelag. Last winter we experienced sky-high power prices in Central Norway because Swedish nuclear power plants were out of operation, while the production of hydropower was low. For the most competitive industry and people, this is unsustainable. Norway and the rest of the world face major challenges in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. A modern gas power plant will halve CO2 emissions without CO2 management compared to power produced from other coal-fired power plants in Europe. The large power deficit that we have in Central Norway means that Industrialkraft Møre's gas power plant will have a long operating time, which allows CO2 cleaning with a high catch rate. ‘No nation in Europe has a more hypocritical energy policy than Norway’, wrote the Sunnmørspost in its leader on 5 May. It is not difficult to agree to that opinion. I, the undersigned, have repeatedly referred to the ‘nisselue policy’ that is followed when we in Norway use clean energy to send Norwegian-produced gas to Europe, where Norwegian State power plants with environmental stamps are established using Norwegian gas, which is then processed and sent back, together with power from coal and nuclear power stations, to Norway. In Norway, we use a lot of energy to transport Norwegian gas-return Europe, rather than using short-range power produced on our own gas where the power-consuming industry is located. Industrial power Møre has been working for a long time to start gas power plants in Elnesvågen, in the middle of a cluster of power-intensive industries. Such a gas power plant would provide power generation where the need is greatest. The right is concerned with the climate challenges. Investment in technology development to clean gas power plants will be an important contribution in this respect. We now see that the government's plans for full-scale cleaning of the heat plant at Mongstad have to be postponed for several years, and that the capture and storage of CO2 from the gas power plant at Kårstø has been postponed indefinitely. Both components are due to major technical and commercial challenges related to the full scale capture and storage of CO2 using the technologies assessed. Therefore, the right will not impose cleaning on gas power plants from the first day, but we will require that the plants be built for cleaning at a later stage. I have a feeling that the government of Soria Moria has read too much from the fairy-tale book about "Princess won't," because when it comes to finding effective and good solutions to cope with the coming energy crisis in Middle Norway, the red-green government will do nothing at all. It operates a faulty energy policy, and it reflects all the good suggestions of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1191	I don't remember voting down a good opposition proposal, I've just voted down the bad ones. Once again, we are looking at the complete decoupling Right and the Progress Party is making between energy policy and climate. During the debate in the first place here, the very spaghetti we are seeing today was predicted, especially in the Right Policy in this area. One can discuss climate with great enthusiasm, but one turns completely away from one's point of view when the discussion enters into energy policy. If it hadn't been because the implications of this, the underlying topic, are so serious, you could have seen humorism in the position that the Right Party in particular has in this matter. But we can't. I believe that there are points to what the Right Party and the Advance Party say in the setting, that gas power plants can become a significant contribution to energy production, and have the advantage of producing gas power independently of the amount of rainfall, in a country like ours, which is dependent on weather to produce hydropower. But the thing is that we have set ourselves targets for emissions and reductions of emissions. Then we should not go in with open eyes and increase emissions in one sector. The right and Christian People's Party points out that in this case the corresponding emission reductions in other sectors should be compensated. But let's look at what sectors this should be. Among other things, they had to: have been in the transport sector or have had to make very strict demands on industry in other sectors. What will the Right do in this matter? We can look at where these parties – both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party – have power, and see what they do there. We see it in my home town, Bergen, where we have major and acute problems with traffic pollution. We know that traffic disruption accounts for an immeasurably large proportion of CO2 emissions in Bergen. Are you willing to do something about the traffic diversion? Are you willing to go to traffic reduction measures in Bergen? No, it's completely impossible to do. If we're talking about getting a cow pricing, you're stealing in Bergen. This applies to both the Christian People's Party and the Right, and now we have also received the Advance Party into the City Council in Bergen. To put it that way: there is no reason to believe that climate policy will become more offensive in Bergen. I think the representative, Mr Hemdal, should be much more concerned about the position of the other opposition parties on climate policy than what she says is against the government's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1207	I sometimes wonder if the representative Henriksen himself believes in what he says, because I would remind you that Mongstad is not an old project that one has inherited. There is a new point of emission for which the red-green government itself should have the credit, and for which I think it was absolutely right to give permission. You're like, like, once you talk about, like, Industrial power More, it's a cruel act against climate and the environment to say yes to such a plant without cleaning, but the government has done the same thing in Mongstad. I can't understand that it's so much worse to have emissions in Middle Norway than it is to have it in Hordaland. If Henriksen were to have credibility in what he said, he would argue against Mongstad opening. He would at least argue that the emissions permit is not suspended when the government is unable to land its project. When SV and the Workers' Party in particular are trying to escape their own hypocrisy by claiming that the policy of the Right and the Advance Party is not related, it just shows that they have not understood what the Advance Party's policy is. The Progress Party agrees to develop CO2 technology. But we say the same thing that the Council of State has now begun to say in a number of debates: one cannot adopt when the technology is going to be in place. In practice, the policy pursued by the government is a ban on gas power plants until further notice. Then the government should say it openly and honestly, but then it should also apply on all points. It must not be that if you put a gas power plant on land and it is efficient, you should have a ban on it, but if it is an inefficient one, which you hope you won't use, it's okay. If you build it at sea, it's okay, because then obviously the CO2 has a different composition that doesn't kill future generations, to use the council's own words. One has to be able to distinguish between what is driving the technological development projects here, for which everyone in the Storting is for, and what is a sensible part of energy policy. If you first decide to pump up the gas, the debate will have to focus on where to use it to maximise energy and minimise CO2 emissions. Then it's obvious to me that using the closest possible source is the most reasonable way. No country is cleaning CO2 emissions from its gas power plants. Ergo: The closer the source you can use it, the more energy efficiency you get out of it, and the less CO2 it gets per kilowatt hour. Hearing the government's reply to the representative, Skumsvoll, is almost hysterical, because we know that while the government has exposed the sewage treatment plant in Mongstad and owes it to technological challenges, applauds the possibility that Industrikraft Møre can have full scale cleaning on its plant, which they then have to pay 100 pst. It's self. If Statoil believes that they cannot find technology in Mongstad and the government does not find alternative solutions, why should the government be able to say, at the same time as credibility, that there are alternative technologies that can be used? Why don't they go to that supplier themselves and clean Mongstad, so they can keep the credit for that project? This is a substitute argument for argument, and it is not a believer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1233	The President must note that the concept of 'hypocrisy' on the position of political opponents or political opponents is not a parliamentary expression and that speaking from the pulpit of the Great Britain should be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1236	Being a responsible party and having a responsible policy means balancing – balancing different interests and different objectives, etc. to each other. It's not like we only have one thought in our head at all times. The art is to be able to think about several things at the same time, including in its policy. This means that we on the Right believe that we have a balanced approach to the issue we are discussing today, in terms of ensuring security of supply and getting more short-term energy into areas, while maintaining our focus on climate challenges. We believe that the energy challenges and climate challenges need to be seen in the context. Then I can understand that the representative Serigstad Valen wants to characterize this as a chaos and question whether the Right is still at the climate agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The representative, Sande, has perceived that the Right stands firm on the agreement we have concluded, while the representative, Serigstad Valen, probably has a self-interest in trying to question it in order to cover up the lack of results in the government's own policy. It's a little weird being attacked to be too ambitious in climate policy. The question is, who is the delay in achieving results? I would like us to discuss today an action plan on how to tackle the climate challenges, but it has the red-green government announced that it will not come until a year, despite the fact that the climate change crisis has outlined a number of measures that can be implemented, and that, among other things, it will. will be socio-economically viable. In the case map later today, it is a proposal for a representative who invites us, among other things. The representative, Serigstad Valen, wants us to take action to meet the climate challenges offensively. For the truth, it is the government itself that is a retard in these issues, when it postpones an action plan on climate. In addition, today we have discussed a climate fund. Right wants to set up a fund just to develop good technological solutions to meet climate challenges in a way that also builds up under the opportunities of Norway and our industrial environments and our environments of competence. Nor does this proposal seem to allow the red-green parties and the representative of Serigstad Valen to vote in favour. So if someone were to be slow about taking climate challenges seriously, it's not least the red-green government, of which the representative Serigstad Valen's party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1247	The representative Hemdal's statements a year ago that a Mongstad postponement would be understandable if necessary, are against her current practice here in the Chamber. Especially striking is the theatre when SV is taught about efforts to clean up gas power. The representative, Mr. Hemdal, may still have self-confidence to recall when the Bondevik government left in 2000, but then she must also bear in mind that the envoy of the Christian People's Party did so when the possibility of more governmental power joined in the following year, linked to a gas power plant on Melkøya that the Christian People's Party did not lift a finger to cleanse. Something else is perhaps not to be expected from a party that that year did not go to elections on political slogans, but from the slogan ‘Voice of a Prime Minister’. Then I have to find out that the chaos I predicted from the Right came to pass. Within three very effective minutes, the representative Røbeck Nørve has cancelled most of the Right's criticism of government from a climate perspective, and the confusion is increasing. Does not or does not the Right mean that we should meet our national climate targets in line with the climate agreement? Yes, says the representative Meling. No, says the reality of the proposal we are now considering. If so, how can the Right argue that the Norwegian gas power is to replace the EU coal? Otherwise, the Right would like to say that Norwegian gas exports are themselves replacing the coal. What coal power is there a gas power plant on Møre that will replace if one is to give power to an area in Middle Norway? Is energy short-lived if it is exported to Europe to replace coal? And can the representative Meling stand in front of what Mr. Røbekk Nørve says? Can the representative, Mr Astrup, stand in front of the representative, Mr Astrup himself, two debates ago? More and more such questions are reported on the current tape, and I do not expect to receive answers to them. But I have to admit that it is interesting to hear the representative Meling, who is an opposition politician, starting to talk from the pulpit as if she were in government – a Bondevik II government, well to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1255	There are many claims that there are contradictions between the Right Climate Policy on the one hand and the Right Energy Policy on the other. Let me once and for all refute it. It's obviously that it takes some time for someone to bring it with you. The right is firmly on the climate deal, and I'll almost say in contrast to the government, because there's nothing happening to them to satisfy the climate deal. I am quite provoked by the criticism that becomes Right-to-Right when the climate communication is at risk, and we do not get any concrete action until 2013. We have proposed today the launch of socio-economical measures. It did not receive the support of the government parties. I remember it. So we're on the climate deal, and that means we assume that clean-up needs to be in place by 2020 at new gas power plants in Norway, or else we need to implement and compensate with other measures if the technology is still not available. However, we must assume that when it was as late as possible in 2009 to have a bidding round, or at least to have a bidding round, to clean Kårstø, it is also possible to clean a new gas power plant in 2020. So our assumption is not cleaning from day one, but that it will be cleaning – not necessarily from day one because the technology is not yet available, but of course we need cleaning. We've supported this all the way. And we are in complete agreement on this in the whole party. I'm just making sure of it, too. So is it that a gas power plant on land in that part of the country that can compensate for offshore gas power will be good climate policy on the net. And you should think about that a little bit. It would have been even better with hydropower, but we have made proposals, which have been voted down in this room, about more hydropower in this country. It would have been even better with small power, but let's say it was like that, that the industry itself has referred to this house as a house of shame. It was the government's dubious honor. So we're crystal clear that we're going to bet on renewable energy, and not going to end up at the bottom, just with Turkey behind us, on the overview of who's the best on renewable energy in Europe. We're too more hydro, we're too small. We are also in order to be able to build gas power plants in those parts of the country where there is a need for them, with final cleaning. And it's clear that on the margin we import coal, and if we replace it with gas, it's also good environmental policy. I think that the representative Serigstad Valen can also join.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1268	I have to say that this debate is of the more interesting we've had in this room for a while. I record that the Right is concerned with the wide difference that it is supposed not to impose requirements for cleaning versus not to impose requirements for cleaning from the first day. However, the Right has presented very few thoughts as to when it may be required. "At a later time", it says in the setting. When is it? When the builder says they're ready? I doubt that there will be many who reach hands in being volunteered. When the gas power plant approaches the end of its lifetime, is it when you have to set that requirement? I believe that the representative Meling, like myself, has imagination to imagine all the discussions – all the debates – that will then arise. We have an existing power plant, it is demanding to connect, not possible to connect to the latest technology. Are we really going to demand old-fashioned, expensive cleaning now that the gas power plant has lived half its lifetime? It's that kind of discussion. And when the Right has no thoughts about claims, but on the contrary has shown that they slip away from their old position on cleaning from day one, as they stood eight years ago, then I have no faith that there will be any claim of importance. With the Right rhetoric in the line exchange with the State Council, you can ask yourself why Right will clean at all. It must seem like pretty wasted money. It also sounds a bit hollow when the representative Røbekk Nørve assures that the right is concerned with the climate. The technological development perspective in this, which was so focused on in the first place, is no longer particularly important in this debate. It is close to asking the Right if they think there will be more or less unpurified gas power plants in Norway with this proposal. Then I must also say that the Christian People's Party's attempt to attack the position on a matter in which we fully agree appeared quite strange. But I choose to leave it. I am primarily pleased and take it as an expression that there are only two parties that will take two steps back in this matter and deviate from the requirement of cleaning from day one. The representative of Solvik-Olsen says that the red-green have not understood the policy of the Progress Party. It's very possible, it's not always that easy to understand. But at least I hear Solvik-Olsen argue that you have emissions one place, so it's really good to have it anywhere else as well. And one thing is definitely that you're not solving the climate problem with that approach. So, unfortunately, I just have to record that despite all the persistent calls, the Right is not even close to trying to give us an answer on where to take the climate cuts that will compensate for increased gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1283	The representative Marianne Marthinsen from the Workers' Party attacked the undersigned so that I – among others – arranged for an embellishment of the start-up of the mobile gas power plants in winter. This is a gas power plant that the government has used over 3 billion. kr – and they are not usable at all. Marthinsen forgot to include that the Workers' Party's representatives on the moor bench, including Else-May Botten, together with the head of the Workers' Party and LO, drove this case quite clearly. So here there were actually more from the Workers' Party who were in it. SV’s representative Snorre Serigstad Valen expressed concerns about the power situation in Central Norway. I think it was time. There are completely new notes from SV, as both former Minister of Environmental Protection from SV Helen Bjørnøy and former Swedish Depositary Representative from SV Bjørn Jacobsen have claimed that we do not have an energy crisis in Møre and Romsdal, or in Middle Norway. Bjørnøy recommended people and businesses in Central Norway to use savings money – I think it’s really a mockery. The representative of the centre party Erling Sande claimed that the right here speaks with several tongues. Here we still have a lot to learn from the Center Party, because there are some people who can both speak in tongues and talking with a lot of tongues, it's the Center Party. We have freshened in memory the debate on the failure of the Centre Party against the landowners and farmers who have invested in small hydropower plants. A new report now shows that Norway — after Turkey, as has been claimed here before — is the worst in the development and construction of new renewable energy. Then you can wonder if the Center Party, which has had the Energy Councils – three pieces – can live with such poor results after five years in government. Short-range power from Industrikraft Møre will be the best solution to a strained power situation in Middle Norway. Short-term power provides very many benefits by reducing transmission losses, increasing security of supply, households and businesses avoiding having to pay more for the current than in other parts of the country, and we can get rid of the costly crisis solution represented by the reserve power plants. I would therefore strongly ask the government parties and the Council of State to turn this case around, unless they agree otherwise, in order to attach the matter to the protocol rather than to reject it altogether. From the right-hand side, this case has not ended. The debate is, in any case, very lively, and we will be promoting the matter again in the Grand Duchy when it is at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1294	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen believes that the Christian People's Party is running theaters, and that we're doing envelopes. The politics of the Christian People's Party are not theatrically inspired, nor are we doing bullyings. It's funny to bring out Snow White, because that must be what the representative Serigstad Valen points to in view of a hunch, when we know that the Stoltenberg I government, when it took over after the Bondevik I government, spent all its time detailing the Snow White project – and it was clear on the table when we took over the government offices in 2001, after the election. But the big difference, as I think the representative Serigstad Valen may have forgotten, is that this was contained in the government statement that we negotiated at Sem. There it was black on white what we meant about this. We gave no other promise to the voters than the government statement on the basis of which we would rule. But that's what SV has done. They won a victory in the Soria Moria I statement, but then you've gone away from this. It is also important to remember that the Snow White gas power plant provides the energy needed for this plant. Snow White is subject to the Petroleum Act. It has full CO2 charge. It pays its allowances in full – at a price of NOK 326, according to the Treasury estimates now revised. If we compare this to Mongstad, we know that here the government has given free allowances. They shall pay a low rate of CO2 – a tonne price of NOK 25. So we know that this heat plant at Mongstad is going to give energy to Troll, it's going to give energy to Bergen City and to the refinery. So it's a little bit difficult to compare pears and apples. I want to quote what party leader Kristin Halvorsen said on March 9, 2000. She gave the central government her full support and called the government's departure "a departure in honor". In the debate here in the Chamber, Kristin Halvorsen said: ‘SV is absolutely certain that when you look back at the realities of this matter – in 10 years’ time,’ – it is ten years now – ‘in 20 years, when our kids are going to take over, we are the ones who have been right.’ The Christian People's Party went off on an environmental matter, we didn't want to erode the law. We also took the consequences and left the government offices. Others choose to be in government offices, and then they have to take a political consequence of this in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1314	I'm a little sorry that I'm extending it as otherwise a long day, but it's a very interesting phenomenon in this debate that can't be allowed to go unnoticed, and that phenomenon is called Right. The interesting thing here is not the Progress Party, which has no climate goal – at least they haven't made it known to the outside world. The interesting phenomenon is Right, which says that we should reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, which have been part of a concrete objective – numerically fixed – in this area, but which says that on the way there we must increase them first. That is the policy I have so fundamentally little faith in. I've sometimes heard it in socialist contexts as well. People say to get to a goal, you have to do the opposite first. But it almost always turns out to be wrong. If you want to go down a mountain, it's almost always fun to start going down – not to go up a little bit before you start going down. You can't both criticize the red-green government for not being fast enough in Mongstad, and at the same time say you're going to have more of the same. One cannot criticise that it is both too hot and too cold at the same time, one must choose: either it is too hot or it is too cold – not that both parts are equally wrong. For what you end up with here, to continue the use of images: this is hot ice, it's wet desert, it's Danish mountains – it's things that just don't go together and that everyone knows is not related. If you want to go down, you start going down, you don't start going up. And to continue with two other, very clear questions that have been asked, and that we have not been answered. We have heard the term ‘short travel force’ repeatedly as a mantra. If that's the case, it has to be for this force to be used locally. At the same time, coal power cannot be replaced in Europe, which is what you say is going to be a greenhouse gas increase in the whole of the accounts. It's either--or. You can't get both of them at the same time. And the very last and most serious thing, if the Right wants to be a serious party: these things will be revealed. As long as you can just criticize the government, this won't be revealed. It is almost certainly revealed by the voters in good time before the 2013 elections, but should it be so wrong that it is not revealed by the voters before the 2013 elections, at least it is revealed by the voters at the moment the right sits there and will go in for both more and less, up and down – at the same time. The fundamental question that the Right must answer if the party is not to be a purely populist party is: What other cut should the Norwegian society be subjected to in order to compensate for this increase? Are these tighter rules for car traffic? Is there any other part of the Norwegian industry that needs to cut more? Who else is going to have to cut more so that the Right will win what they think is some picker on the Moor?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1323	The representative Henriksen says that the Progress Party and the Right have a decoupling between energy policy and climate policy, but is that not exactly what we experience with the government? The government allows gas power on Mongstad without cleaning, from mobile works it's ok, from the base it's eelreit, but if Industrial Power More wants to start new plant, then it's very dangerous, because then there's no relationship between energy policy and climate policy. That is exactly what it is in the policy of the Progress Party. For the government, it clearly does not mean that Statkraft produces electricity with gas in Germany — unclean. We must start thinking about what is most significant – the CO2 emitted in Norway or in Germany? There are no limits; nothing stops the gas in Germany from damaging the environment as much as it would do in Norway. And until the last time the Council of State said, it's clear that short-range power is good, but it takes much less energy to send electricity out of the country than it requires to pump gas through long gas pipelines to Europe. So we should produce the gas power in Norway, and if there's any surplus, if the power-intensive industry or anyone else can use that power, then we should export it through cables. It is much more CO2 friendly than pumping the gas into pipes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1338	Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1341	The representative Røbeck Nørve’s claims of ‘new tones’ from SV regarding the supply situation in Middle Norway show – or at least tell me – that she should perhaps be present in the staging room even when she is not going to send cheap populist points home to Møre and Romsdal. For it is one party that, during the power crisis in winter, promoted a number of proposals on how we can deal in both the short and long term with the supply situation in Central Norway, that was SV. The representative Røbeck Nørve had one solution, and it was mobile gas power plants. Let me remind the representative Røbeck Nørve about the magnification of the Worm Lange. I have quoted Røbekk Nørve's own oil and energy minister several times earlier here in the Chamber – rightly from the Christian People's Party, but it was the same government – namely Einar Steensnæs, who has happily admitted that everyone was too excited about the industrial potential of the Worm Lange to take into account the difficult supply situation that would arise. There were two parties who warned against it – the Advance Party and SV – while the representative Røbekk Nørve was too busy winning votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1348	The council was probably out when I kept my post, since he could keep such an post afterwards. Because if he had been here in the hall while I was talking, he would have known that there is no contradiction between the Right Energy Policy on the one hand and the Right Climate Policy on the other. But I want to refer the Council of State to the reports of Storting, so that he gets that post with him. There have also appeared some other things. The representative Marianne Marthinsen is wondering when we're going to have a clean-up. Well, I made it quite clear in my post that the Right is stuck on the climate agreement, and that means that we have to have the ambition that these gas power plants that are being built now are to be cleaned by 2020. If we cannot do that, we must have other measures. And then the Council of State asks: What measures do we want? The question of action is, moreover, better to address to the Council of State, which will, if anything, be sent to the Storting. But we want to, for example, bet on biofuels. So we know that it takes a little bit of a different framework than what we have today to have a home market that works. And we know where the government stands in that case, so I'm not going to rip it up. But we have made a number of proposals, including: about biofuels, which are about which cuts we want to take, so there should be no doubt about it. I think it's strange that we get this criticism when we're actually going in to do the exact same thing as the government – Kårstø, exposed in an indefinite time. I think that's very sad, but the technology is not available, according to the state's professional advisor on this issue, Gassnova. And I've learned in the last few weeks that you should listen to what Gassnova says, because that's the state's professional advice. The councils are talking about this with short-range force. It's going to be like, on the margin, we're importing coal. If we increase production in Norway, imports of coal will be less needed, and thus greenhouse gas emissions will decrease. I cannot understand that it should be so terribly much more difficult than that, but it is possible that I am the one who misunderstands the Council of State in this. What we are now meeting is concrete action by the government. We have made a number of proposals. The government parties have voted them down, one by one, throughout this session. What is it when the government intends to propose to cut emissions? I wonder, and I don't want to wait until the state budget in 2013 to figure it out, so it could be nice if we started now. This is the opportunity for the government parties to vote in favour of the proposal that comes a little later on on the agenda, namely that we are now starting to implement socially viable measures in the field of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1362	It's possible it had begun to approach a clarification during Astrup's speech. If I understood Astrup correctly, then one will stand firm in the climate agreement. It's nice to right. One will require the purification of all gas power plants, not from day one, but from January 1, 2020. It might be interesting to the right Progress Party's view of it. If you don't, replacing them with a new one will cause you to eject a new one by phasing in biofuels. At least this was the way the representative Astrup put his message to interpret. I did not think this debate was about a lack of respect or a lack of understanding of the opposition's views. The challenge is that the opposition here represents four-five different points of view. There are large dots in the items that are kept from the right, so there are several views inside the right. I respect the view of the Progress Party in this matter. I'm disunity, but I respect that, with the climate vision they have, they suggest something like that. I have respect for Røbekk Nørve, who shares the same point of view, at least this is how it appears when she makes contributions here. I have so much respect for the fact that the representative Astrup wants to stand by the climate agreement and is busy reducing emissions. It's a good thing to have more thoughts in your head at the same time, but these thoughts can't stand in direct conflict with each other. Then there's no way. I thought the rounds we've had have been a little bit elucidating. The closest we have been given an explanation, was the last article from the representative, Astrup, if I have understood correctly. That would be the summary of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1369	There can be no doubt that the Right was one of the drivers of the climate agreement and is still standing by the climate agreement. It is clear to the Right that there is not one sector that will carry the cuts for Norway, but all sectors. We need to bring down the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions dramatically, and neither can the target be the low-emission society, but the zero-emission society. But what characterises the debate so far is that the government parties want to use the technique: in harsh words, their own promises are to be pushed out. When e.g. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen lists up that the government and, in particular, the Socialist Left has made a number of proposals – in the short and long term – the question has to be: When do we see the effect of them? When do we see that this will use the majority that is, just to improve the power situation in central Norway and to contribute to a significant reduction in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions? In this way, the Right is more than willing to help put in place an acceptable power situation in Central Norway, and not least to put in place a system that contributes to significantly reducing Norwegian climate emissions. I participated in the 10th anniversary of Agder Energia this weekend, a company that is doing well for the time being, a company that has now become the third largest energy producer in Norway. What constitutes an image for all energy suppliers is that they are struggling to use the renewable energy available in Norway. Within the wind range, it is almost eternity that limits the process time. It is not only a dry local procedural complex, but also the state and not least the state and the national antiquities set limits. It is a tax system that does not make it profitable to invest in renewable energy in Norway. There are good examples of this in the case of State power, which uses its capital abroad rather than in Norway. Another area that will have large local value creation is just small power. We see that there are municipalities, and not least landowners, who want to use their power. But those who sit like the plug in the system are just the administrative authorities. Then the council itself has the opportunity to do something fundamental by being a driving force for the conversion of the tax system and concession limits, but also by giving the county councils crystal clear notice that climate is one of the elements that must enter the picture when one has a discussion about whether or not to expand it, the small basin that the landowner might have on his own land.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1381	Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1384	Now, when I take the floor, it's because the representative Erling Sande is confused, and I want to help him get a little bit of clarity in where things stand. All the representatives of the Right are behind the climate agreement, all the representatives in this room have said today that they are behind the climate agreement, so there is no doubt. All right-wing representatives in this room agree that if gas power plants are to be built now it is subject to purification. It follows from the first point, that we're all behind the climate agreement, but not necessarily from day one. This is the same policy that the government happens to be pursuing at Kårstø and Mongstad. We agree on the importance of getting cleaned up. But Gassnova tells us that that's not possible. If possible, the government had successfully processed Sargas’ application to build gas power plants with cleaning in Hammerfest, which they delivered in 2005. They didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1389	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has also spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1392	After the representative Serigstad Valen from SV’s last post, I felt it was right to take the word. He accused the undersigned of promoting only one proposal to meet the energy crisis in Middle Norway, and then he mentioned mobile gas power plants. It's with respect to report a big bluff. If I'm not allowed to say that, it's at least far from the truth, because the Right has promoted no less than three proposals for a separate action plan for Middle Norway. All three proposals have been voted down by this government. Former Danish Council of State, Enoxsen, promised to provide such an action plan as early as 2006. My question to the government is: Can anyone give a good answer to when to get such an action plan for Middle Norway, which can contribute energy to both industry and people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1399	This proposal promoted the Progress Party because we wanted to be able to strengthen the power situation when the use of gas power plants is deemed necessary and to eliminate principle discrimination in legislation. It is unreasonable that a gas power plant in Mongstad can be built without a requirement for cleaning at start-up, while everyone else must have it. It also shows that the government's rhetoric here is not related, because one says that it's okay with point emissions of CO2 in Mongstad, because then it was necessary to save the government's honor and survival in 2006, but one later like it's not going to apply to others. It's unforgiving. So one requires the use of a technology that itself cannot demonstrate that works, and that one in Mongstad has postponed its implementation because one thinks it is problematic. This requirement is waived in the case of Norwegian pedestal or in the case of Statnett. As long as state companies, or Statoil, want to build gas power plants, it's not that important, while if private operators want to build gas power plants, it's important to have cleaning at start-up. To the SV I ask the question: What happens to CO2 emissions from the gas that Norway pumps from the Norwegian base? Is it true that if we use it in other countries, it has no CO2 effect, while if it is used in Norway, is it completely cruel? Of course it's not like that. Then I will try to explain to the representative Serigstad Valen and the Council of State how the power market works. For it is precisely that the use of gas in Norway or in the EU is completely irrelevant in terms of total global CO2 emissions, as long as no country cleans. Of course, if a user of it in Norway has a correspondingly smaller export price, but the import demand for force is also reduced accordingly. Using the power, or the gas, in a power plant near its pumping up allows one to have more energy efficiency out of it. Either reducing imports of coal power from other countries or exporting more Norwegian gas. It will then affect the demand for coal power in the countries importing Norwegian gas. It has that effect in any case, it distorts coal as long as coal is marginal in the power market – and it is. The conclusion of this debate is that the government defends that it has a fundamentally different treatment of equal actors. They require a technology that they themselves do not think is available. Norwegian energy policy is subject to national CO2 framework conditions instead of considering energy security as a national thing and climate policy as a global thing. It shows that no matter what Kristin Halvorsen tried to communicate five years ago that 15 years of Norwegian gas power struggle is over, it lives at best. Because immediately a mention is made of the word gas power plant in this room, it is completely blackened in the logical contexts of the government's energy policy, and one is unable to move on. Norwegian gas is good as long as you export it, but it's cruel when we use it in this country. It's a policy I'm taking away from, and I think the voters in 2013 will also take away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1427	The imagery of this debate is constantly reaching new heights. The representative from the Christian People's Party tried earlier in the debate to explain that comparing apples and pears is not easy, and it is certainly not. But comparing gas power cleaning with gas power cleaning should be an affordable task, even for the Christian People's Party. I am, as I said, very pleased that the Christian People's Party, together with the position, is involved in demanding a clean-up from day one, and in that way is helping to isolate the Right Party and the Advance Party as the only parties that want more unpolluted gas power in Norway. That's good. So the representative, Astrup, is trying to clarify what the Right really means about cleaning once in the future. The 2020 goal is to stand firm, he says. It's also reassuring to hear. It's okay that, as a consequence, you have to have ambitions about clean-up by 2020, but it's quite strange to start by building up more unclean gas power. It must at least be allowed to say that you don't make it any easier for yourself that way. Then I have to say in all the criticisms that have been to the Right today, that it is nice to observe that they now say that you have to listen to Gassnova. It's new, but very soothing tones from there. The representative of Astrup calls for concrete action. I can use time to frame up: Europe's tightest quota allocation, tightening building regulations, tripling of renewable energy and energy efficiency appropriations, conversion of car charges, eight eco-friendly energy centres that came last year, doubling the allocation for collective investment in large cities, district heating, and now 500 million. kr to climate technology. There are several points, but that is not the most important thing in this debate. However, when I choose to make this suggestion, it's because it's going to be very strange to present it as having a climate-friendly consistent policy, is the same thing as voting for Right rather detached Document No. Eight proposals put forward in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1442	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1458	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1467	Document 8:98 S is a proposal from the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Henning Skumsvoll, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and Torkil Åmland to strengthen local land management in the coastal zone by amending Chapter 11 of the Law on Building Prohibition in the coastal zone and by limiting State authorities' right of objection and redress. It is not the first time such a proposal has been promoted and discussed, but the Stortinget has not previously endorsed similar proposals. It has been an important principle for many years that the beach zone should be accessible to all, and that one needs tools to withstand a constant pressure to build in the beach zone. It's probably a pressure that all of us who either live or spend a lot of time in coastal communities with fine archipelagos, etc., are very well acquainted with, and that is the subject of much political discussion at both local, regional and national level. In Norway there has been a legal ban on construction in the 100-metre belt along the sea since 1965. Unlike the recent signals from individual batches, we, the red-green batches, are concerned that the general interest is to be favoured in this 100 metre belt. There is reason to recall that the general construction ban in the 100-metre belt has been the subject of broad political agreement for a long time. There can therefore be no surprise on the right-hand side that the desire to care for the public interest has led to a narrowing of access to the exemption. The matter is really simple. People who do not own shall have access to the sea and the beaches. People who don't own should be able to have this access without feeling that they're doing something wrong. Our coast must not be walled again by the settlement that makes the beach zone inaccessible absolutely everywhere. It is important to take care of. One can sometimes get the impression in this debate that it is not the municipalities that are responsible for dealing with such matters, but it is. The fact that the Progress Party is still surprised that the statesmen are a contributing player in this work is therefore a little special. The task of the peoples is to take care of national interests for our common good in the coastal zone. The party of progress, which, in other contexts, would like to call for more state control, more central control, therefore has limited credibility when criticising today's system on a principle basis. The draft guidelines on the coastal zone have received many consultation opinions. There are many who have pointed out that the division of areas with large and smaller pressures should not follow the municipal boundaries. It's a video game the government follows up, and as the council has also said, it's a good objection. The same applies to the recordings from the 24 municipalities which state that they are incorrectly placed in the category of municipalities with a high pressure on the areas. Here both the Council of State and the Department have a sensible and listening attitude, and they need to take a closer look at the case of each municipality. It is worth reminding in this context that the Right in Government did not practice such a differentiation. The current current zeal for the liberalisation and privatisation of our common values is therefore a little poor, because we know from experience that the party is able to do so much better. As the position suggests, the majority, consisting of the red-green parties plus the Christian People's Party, are engaged in the work of ensuring good enforcement of the management of the beach zone, while respecting the need for differentiated administration between different parts of the country and differentiation within the municipalities. That is why we recommend not to approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1490	The proposal that we are debating here today is a very good one in the sense that it reveals in a very good way the difference between the red-green government and the right side of Norwegian policy. The request is made in such a way that the matter is whether you are in favour of or against local self-government, but that is not correct. It is not a proper presentation of what this case is about. So let's take the proposers seriously. The question then becomes how well-suited local selfgovernment is to preserve a national value that the public access to attractive beach areas around the country is. How we manage our common national natural values is, of course, a matter that is national. It is not excluded that for each individual decision in this country dealing with the development or degradation of our coastal zone, a reasonably good and rational argument can be made in isolation. This is not the point, nor is it the background for our tightening up. The point is that the sum of all the perhaps isolated, sensible and rational individual decisions creates a society that we don't want – a society where access to attractive beach areas becomes for the few and not for all of us. That's what this is all about. It is our ally's right to respect. The execution of our common good is a responsibility that cannot be assumed by each municipality alone. We can't have 430 different kinds of policies to take care of a beach zone for everyone. Both the experience and the history of the last decades have taught us all about it. There's something about taking reality over and designing policies after that. Take, for example: the journey from the border at the Svinesund and following the coast to e.g. Stavanger, the answer to this question is quite clear: local self-government has not taken care of the beach zone in a way that has been in the public interest. Experience is unique. Our most attractive beach areas are strongly developed with the consequence that ordinary people – and then I am talking about hundreds of people – no longer have access to these areas, despite the fact that there have been legal building bans in the 100-metre belt along the sea since 1965. This building ban has also been passed on in the new Planning and Building Act. We have adjusted the law to stop the further exclusion of ordinary people from attractive beach areas. In the context of the new law, state level guidelines are clarified and tightened as regards the management of the 100 meter belt. At the same time, we decided in the new law that municipalities, which repeatedly grant exemptions contrary to state guidelines, may lose the right to grant exemptions. All the things that have been done have been done because what has been before has not worked. I record that some things rarely or never change. Where, in the Labour Party and in the other red-green parties, we put the fundamental rights of most people first, the market liberals on the far right fly in Norwegian politics put the strongest right in the first row. By means of riveting notes and ringing coins, ordinary people shall be kept more than an arm's length distance. In these policy areas, as in the past, there is still a very great distance between the social democratic values and those that defend the power of money. And then I mean the Advance Party. Then I have to say that I have been a local politician for 18 years. I have the greatest respect for local democracy. But I know after 18 years as a municipal politician how difficult it was to stand up to both strong business interests and people who mattered in the municipality and who wanted to build up both the beach zone and the mountain home, how difficult it was to say no. I experienced constantly – and I say again that I was a municipal politician for 18 years – that local politicians on the right side were held up by the skin and not by the spine. It's hard to see the national interests when one sits in his own small municipality and is going to think about what's good within his own fences. I was allowed to be political advisor in the Ministry of Environmental Protection for a year under Thorbjørn Berntsen. Being there for a year confirmed everything to me, that everything would look like a single patchwork – and the access for ordinary people would be even more limited – if you hadn't had the code you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1511	Questions and problems about the local authority's right of self-determination in the beach zone have gradually become fixed to the last 30 years. The County Environmental Protection Department is one of the least-like public bodies. Very many have experienced that dreams and construction plans have been stopped by the county. In the early 1980s, the law and guidelines for the coastal zone were less stringent. Who has not experienced rejection because the measure could be seen from the sea, from the air, from the highway near the measure or from the other side of the fjord? Later, there was also justification for biodiversity. There are no limits to the ingenuity of refusals by case handlers both at state level and at department level. The basic idea of being restrictive in the coastal zone is also shared by the Progress Party. The problem, however, is that instead of having sensible guidelines, protection interests and prohibition policies have taken full advantage. Mainlands-Norway has approx. 25 000 km of coastline and most of it uninhabited. The legislative proposals have come due to construction at Oslofjorden, on the coast towards Sweden and by Kristiansand. With today's policy, for example, none of the coveted white southern villages has been built. The government's desire to control the development is probably the main driving force behind the tightening up of legislation and national policy guidelines. The Progress Party, with its representative proposal, will highlight developments under changing governments with ever more stringent laws and enforcement. In reality, local politicians have been deprived of any decision on matters in the coastal zone. This is what the Progress Party wants to change, so that they get back control of their own land. I would like to mention examples of measures in the coastal zone that could be permitted in the past, but which are now being stopped: if the dwelling has a fixed connection, it is not allowed to build a small bridge to land its boat. Who doesn't remember the matter of the man of a councillor who had attached an insignificant brew to the ground outside his cottage? The press picked this up as if it were a major crime. If ‘laughing’ is an appropriate parliamentary word, then this word is the only one that can describe public intervention, but also the press’s handling of the matter. Other examples of rejection apply in addition to cabins. The size of the building has no meaning. Detached annex to the site is also rejected. It would have been interesting if the Council of State could elaborate on the rationale of refusing to build or annex other suitable land. The word "presidence" often goes back to rejections. Where the conditions for authorisation exist, this should be provided. It is wrong to reject a case pending that others apply in the same area. The reason for the strict practice of building in the coastal zone is the desire for public access. The problem is that general rules for the whole country do not take into account local conditions. Local policy authorities assess each case on the basis of its realities. This is hardly the case when the case is decided at the level of the county or department. The Progress Party believes that such a policy is almost halting the development of very many coastal municipalities and is concerned about such over-management. The regulation of the coastal zone is necessary, but this can best be done by local politicians without interference from management bodies. In the planning part of the municipalities, it must be clear where construction can and cannot be permitted. With today's legislation, the government puts an end to any reasonable exploitation of the beach areas. In many places along the coast, people never travel because the terrain is inappropriate. Often it will be possible to exploit these areas for recreational purposes. The public would not doubt whether these areas were being expanded. Derogations from the construction ban must be determined by local politicians. Bureaucrats in the county or department are hardly more fit to make these decisions than local politicians. The Council of State will probably claim that this is wrong, because he is the department's top political authority. My claim, however, is that the Council of State must listen entirely to the recommendations of the bureaucrats. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1537	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1540	It's not that long since we had a similar discussion in Stortinget, when the Right Representative Arve Kambe addressed this topic in an interpellation. It's an important matter for the Right that we have to debate right now. There is no doubt that the free areas of our coastal areas are of great importance. The outdoors in these areas are rich. Many want to make use of these areas, and it is also important for the Right that the public have access to coastal areas. That is why we are also positive about the purchases made by the state itself to ensure the pristine nature of our coastal areas. From a public health perspective, it is also important to stimulate a rich and diverse outdoor life. That being said, the government has announced that they will come back with a more differentiated enforcement of the building ban along our coast within and between municipalities. We think that from the Right is positive, because our coast is differentiated. There are considerable differences in the areas of pressure, for example: here in the Oslo Earth and downwards towards the Agder states and what we experience, among other things. in the West and further north. It's not the same pressure in terms of neither cabins nor population. In this way, we believe from the Right that it will be wrong to automatically transfer the same regulations that are in Oslofjord and Agder areas to other parts of the country. From our point of view, we look forward to a more differentiated view and differentiated guidelines on these issues. There is in many ways an ideological distinction between the red-green parties and the Right in terms of who it is that is to have power, and who is to have the right in land policy? From the point of view of the Right, we have great confidence in local authorities – local politicians who know their own areas and who can make good adjustments in the balance between pristine nature by ensuring access to a wide variety of outdoors, but could also offer, among other things. cabin construction and other interventions in our coastal zones. The Red-Green parties, in particular the Workers' Party and the SV, believe that the state knows better than local politicians do. I can understand that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have that stand, but I'm a little bit more questioning about the Center Party, which also supports this policy – the Center Party, which in many ways wants to appear as a party under the authority of local government and private ownership. This view is very absent from government policy. It is possible that the Centre Party here has little impact in order to be able to support the local right to rule on land issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1551	Beach zone management is a theme of which many inhabitants are busy, and in many municipalities beach zone is a very important part of the total area of the municipality. The centre party has for many years pointed out that there are different needs and concerns to address the coastal zone management system as a whole in the country. Some places are under heavy pressure on beach sonals and the unfortunate use of exemptions and exemptions, or poor planning has caused a particular amount of beach sonals to be built down and generally poor access to beach sonals, while in many other municipalities around the country has a lot of free beach zone and is actually dependent on being able to manage it to create the desired development in its municipality. That's exactly why the red-green government has presented a differentiated management of the beach sona that takes care of each in the country one is, and what pressure it is on the beach sona in the current place. Government planning lines are now being developed. They open up that municipalities can use beach sona actively in planning without pressure on the beach sona and take care of e.g. industrial development. The centre party is aware that the differentiated administration between municipalities and municipalities just allows local politicians to plan their area in a holistic way. Then it is that even we from the Center Party's side see that this places high demands on both planning capacity and capacity in the municipalities, and therefore it is important that the strengthening of the municipal sector continues, and that the stranded zone also has priority in the municipalities' spatial planning. The premise on which the proposal is based is also not the center party 100 pst. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What is underlying is the idea that exemptions and exemptions are more democratic than planning, i.e. that exemptions and exemptions are more appropriate local democracy than planning. I don't agree with that. In fact, the processes you have about planning beach sonals, are more democratic. This means that in non-pressurised areas, municipalities will have a better traveler to plan their total area in the new law, while in those municipalities where one has managed the bad beachesones, it will be more difficult to use beachzones for measures such as: industry development and construction. This differentiated administration, which says something that the country is different, that there are major differences between the inner Oslo Earth and large parts of the North and Western countries, was the Center Party and the Red-Green Government that introduced, not the Right. One of the impressions here was that there was an attempt to pull up the great fundamental difference between the Right and the reigning Red-Green parties because one here took care that the country was different. We are the ones who take that into account! It is we who introduce a new system that makes a difference to the administration in areas where there is great pressure and in areas where the pressure is low. The Right did when they ruled, was not to change this law. On the contrary, the government sent out letters to the statesmen and asked for a more general strict enforcement of the legislation, which resulted in the fact that even in non-press communities a tightening of the legislation for beach sonals was achieved. So I didn't think the Right has much to boast about when it comes to beach zone policy. The directions that are now being developed will take care that the country looks different, and I'm actually proud that that principle has come with now under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1568	When we go straight into the argument about paragraphs and bureaucracy, it is easy to forget why a matter comes up – we can forget that this matter comes up because the Norwegian coast is a fantastic area that, at least in the central part of the country, is significantly built up. Skumsvoll was aware that today’s rules would not allow the southern villages to be built. But the point is that they're just built, and that there's a huge amount built along the coast, and then we're going to take care of the relatively few – especially at the Oslo Earth – untouched areas in order for people to be able to run boat lives, should be able to turn up tents, be able to camp, barbecue, play ball and what it might be. The weekend we have behind us now is the foremost of all examples of what a wonderful enrichment it is for people to have such an opportunity. The government believes that this possibility should also be for most people, including those who don't have a cabin or a country, but also those who have a cabin or a country, but who want to have a wider horizon, and move elsewhere. We also believe that the coast should be safeguarded for future generations, so that those who do not have the right to vote today and to whom we cannot free today, but who want to be able to experience this coast in the years to come, will also have that opportunity. Then we believe that it is far better to base the pattern of coastal expansion on planning. Erling Sande was very clear about it. The advantage of this is that the municipality can then clarify which areas of the municipality you want to take care of for the general public and for future generations, and which areas you want to develop. This process is completely transparent, everyone can see into it. Well-beings, sports teams, pensioners' associations, and anyone who has any interest in the matter, can make their views known, and it's a perfectly open process. I'm not saying that there is camaraderie in the municipalities in all other processes. I'm just saying that the danger of that, and the suspicion of that, will always be present when there are processes based on individual exceptions over this type of openness. So Erling Sande is quite right that it's the red-green government that has introduced a differentiated beach zone policy. The centre party has a significant share of the credit for it. It was precisely when different views conflicted with each other that we got this differentiated policy, which former governments have not led. This means that we have a much more liberal practice in those areas of the country where there is no strong pressure than in those areas where it is. That means that the Oslo Earth and the South Coast are singled out as a very special area where there is a strict administration. So there is still work with a few very few municipalities. There are mainly municipalities in the Haugesund region, in Hordaland, and a few municipalities in Fosenhalv Island, and then there are very few scattered other municipalities. But how to design the legislation for these municipalities remains, and we're going to get back to that, but it's going to be exactly in line with the principle of differentiated beach zone policy: string where necessary, not very close to it when it doesn't have to be strict. Then I just have to say that I'm worried about the Right. There are two ways to form government. One is demonstrated by the red-greens by the fact that Kristin and Jens started talking together, and then also began talking to Åslaug. They spent a long time talking to each other, talking up to a political basis for a government. Now, what we're going to see is a completely different way of thinking about one part running after another and copying another. So today we have five things, I think it's where the Right now suddenly runs and copies the Advance Party, with positions that are not known to the Right. I stand here with what Børge Burnde sent out when he was Minister of Environmental Protection, it's not that long ago: ‘I would like to emphasise in particular the responsibilities of municipalities for managing the areas in line with national interests. The county and county councils must also ensure that the national guidelines are followed.’ He also writes: ‘As the responsible planning and construction authority, the Communities are obliged to follow closely what is happening in the coastal zone and to ensure that the Law on Planning and Building is enforced. The county must continue to monitor intensively’ — intensive control, nothing less — ‘what happens to action in the coastal zone to ensure that national objectives are met’. I'm worried when we look at the sum of the things we have here today – predators, beach zone, shopping center expansion – how the Right thus runs from what was the party's position until recently. It is not possible to recognize Børge Brende's Right, and much less Willoch's Right, in the Right we now see race with the Advance Party. I don't think value conservation voters will appreciate this – when it becomes known. They don't know about that for the moment. But we're going to use the two and a half years up until the 2013 elections to make this explicitly clear to those right-wing voters who had to have an interest in environmental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1591	It's being opened for line change. Has Skumsvoll asked for two lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1596	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1602	Then there are two lines from Skumsvoll first, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1605	Thank you, President! Both Solheim State Council and Sande's representative put it forward as if we don't want to have any planning. It was clear in my post that we want planning. We don't just want exemptions. But we want those who have the most knowledge of the area, which are the municipal politicians, to carry out the planning. We do not believe that bureaucrats in the county or in the Ministry of Environment are better suited than the local politicians who know the area completely. It's the overtest in the County Environmental Protection Department and in the Ministry of the Environment that we've been very sorry about. My question to the Council of State is whether he believes that the bureaucrats of the county and the department are so much better suited than the local politicians to determine the coastal zone development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1619	The answer to that is a very clear no. Of course, it must be the local politicians and for the part the local administration that has to make the plan. That's what's the starting point. All of this is a local plan from each municipality, developed by the municipality's politicians, of course in cooperation with management and experts in the municipality. But in order to ensure that we also get a national policy where we, for example. prevent one municipality from overcoming another by facilitating a way that creates difficulties for others, that one municipality destroys another, we also need a national policy to ensure that the municipalities adhere to the guidelines laid down by the Stortinget. Therefore: The base is municipal planning, but we have the county council and the state apparatus to ensure that we are also linked as one kingdom – like Harald Haarfagerre once assembled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1628	What we want to see today is that time and again the smallest action to be taken – an addition of 5 m2 on a cabin – is denied, because it can be seen from the sea, it can be seen from the air, it can actually be seen, because it is an addition. If you have such a policy, it does not contribute to giving access to the public. There is access in this country. Fortunately, it is not forbidden to build a cabin, but it is the way it is implemented – it is the strategy of the department through the county – that makes us get no development. It's a stop. That's the trend that we in the opposition are strongly opposed to, and we hope that with these differentiated guidelines you can get a change here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1636	First of all, let me say that the vast majority of them — the overwhelming majority of these kinds of conflicts — are resolved locally in a dialogue between the municipality and the county and the person or family it might apply. There are a very small number of things that we in the Ministry of the Environment get in for over-testing, and then we take our position on them. I must also say that I agree with the representative, Mr Skumsvoll, that entering into de minimis details which are not relevant to this very important, namely public access to the coastal zone, should avoid public authorities. The beach zone in Norway does not stand and fall with a single patio or a façade change or such things, but we also see a series of examples of people who deliberately put up obstacles in the terrain to prevent the public from walking in a completely normal way. That should be very strict against the municipalities and take decisive action against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1643	It's like we've kind of had a differentiated coastal zone policy, as we've had national policy guidelines, and then we've had areas without them. What was sent out at the hearing was to expand the area in terms of national policy guidelines, but fortunately, the government in this process has been responsive to geographical differences, population differences, etc. and signalled that there will be a differentiated coastal zone policy which also seems to be sensible to the Right. So the state council says in its statement that it will also mean that one will become more liberal than before in some areas. Then my question to the Council of State is, in which areas will one become more liberal than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1650	I don't know if I used the term "more liberal than before." I said we would be liberal in areas where there is no strong pressure on the beach zone. Examples include the whole of North Norway and Sogn and Fjordane – to take a few obvious examples. But also in these areas, you have to have some differentiation. It is clear that there are isolated sites along the coast of North Norway and in Sogn and Fjordane where the pressure on the land is very great, and where it is important to ensure that the public also has access to beaches or to places where you want to fish or what it might be. But these are not areas where there is a general pressure in the same way as it is in Oslofjord or close to cities like Bergen and Trondheim. It's this differentiation we've now arranged for – very liberal in North Norway and in Sogn and Fordane, very strict in Oslofjord, and then we're going to fine-tune the guidelines for the most controversial areas, which are the Haugesund area and in parts of Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1655	I have a long experience as head of building, technical manager and local politician, so I have worked on these matters in approx. 30 years. I've seen evolution all along. The happy answer to my previous question was when the Council of State said he thought it was wrong when de minimis measures were denied. That's exactly what's going on! My question to the Council of State is therefore: can we now expect the Council of State to go out and tell the County Environmental Protection Department that an addition of 8 m2 can be allowed, and that a small bridge can be allowed? It is not creating an area further to the public; it is a measure that can help people who are already established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1665	I have repeatedly said in Stortinget that I believe that when these things are handled – first by the municipality and then in dialogue with the county council – there is no need to look down on very small things that have no practical significance for the purpose. The purpose here is for the general public to have access. Individual measures which are not a significant obstacle to this should be looked at liberally. On the other hand, we should be much more stringent in other areas. Let me take an example from the municipality of Fredrikstad, where it is quite obvious that all the outdoor facilities have been built for the purpose of preventing the public from passing. That kind of thing you should be very strict on. So it's like the local sense is big, and the municipalities and county municipalities are almost always able to find practical solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1670	So the chord change is over. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1676	Let me first thank the Council of State for its touching concern for the Right. I'm afraid that there's talk of crocodile tears that he now shares in this room when it comes to care, but we're worried about it anyway. For the Right, it's quite obvious that we're incredibly privileged. We have a fantastic Norwegian nature, and we have to take care of it. The coast is part of the nature we naturally take and should take care of. But there's a big difference. Not all areas, even in the South or in the Inner Oslofjord, are similar. It's not government or big business that knows much, it's local politicians who know about it. It is about giving local politicians power and authority in their own municipality. It is a matter of setting targets and also allowing local politicians to nuance within a space of action. The space for action now established in terms of development, expansion, along the coast and in the hundred metres belt is intended to establish a total ban in the interior of Oslofjord and on the south coast until Lindesnes. It's not to strike a blow for local self-government. It is also not to strike a blow for common sense. To illustrate this, I would like to mention an example from Hestvika in the municipality of Kristiansand, or rather on Flekkerøy, where a family who have lived on the island for generations makes an agreement with the municipality to give up most of their empty property free of charge to the municipality, so that the municipality can build school, expand the school. It is only when the municipality is going to do its part of the job, namely to authorise a small cabin extension, that the objections are coming. The plot has already been built by the municipality, and the county opposes it. This case is several years old. The family concerned has been shutting down public bureaucracy for a long time. The final sum of the matter is that you have lost most of your plot and got nothing back. The children of the municipality and the island play in a new school that is absolutely fabulous, but the great loser is the credibility of the public and this family. Let me challenge the Council of State: does the Council of State want this kind of agreement where, on the part of the municipality, you get free of charge a battleground with fantastic beach areas that means that the public is given the opportunity to move in an area they haven't done before, against the fact that there is then a small extension, in this case one cabin?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1687	Right, contrary to the Center Party and some other red-green politicians, that power and self-determination over the beach sun should return to the municipalities and to local democracy. In Sogn and Fjordane, moving away is a big challenge. In the coastal communities of Gulen, Solund and Askvoll, there is a very topical problem, and there is a very important question about where to bus people when most of the areas are protected. In these municipalities, there are over 6,000 inhabitants. In the same municipalities, about 4,000 caverns happen. When you look at a map of what's protected and how small a portion of the land is at your disposal, you can see that this has crossed the stick and the stone, to use a popular expression. It is, and always has been, culture to build in the beach zone in many parts of the country. A positive development in coastal communities requires a further development of local strength and attraction, and then the use of coastal zones is important. The ban on the construction of the 100 metre belt is very negative both for the development of nutrition and for busses. Together with an increasingly radical state management of bulwarks, soil protection and disunity issues, this creates both disintegration and powerlessness in local democracy and in the local environment. Right wants to take care of nature and natural diversity, and we see it as very important that natural areas are without interference. Right also wants to be beach areas that are pristine. Nevertheless, the Right believes that today's administration breaks with all understanding of former cultural and coastal zone management. It creates unnecessary conflicts and a lack of respect for laws and regulations. The state-based hard management is devastating for initiatives taken byinitiators. In many ways, the state declares distrust of local politicians in terms of land management. The right to guess about our own property is constantly being reduced, and local democracy is falling together with a lot of great cultural landscapes that the generations before us have managed in a good way. In the setting we manage, it is pointed out that the party secretary of the Labour Party, Raymond Johansen, has stated that the law on beach zones is a problem, and that it is absurd that the same legislation should apply to large parts of the West. We also see that Liv Signe Navarsete has used the beach zone issue in his counterpower tour. There have also been many similar statements from red-green politicians, where they are in full four-way distance from the responsibility for the beach area of the new planning and building law, and this has unfortunately become a regular exercise these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1704	I almost want to start there where the previous speaker relaxed, namely with the signals. One of the things that the Council of State also had in mind is what is the background to the debate we have today. Why is this proposal here today? This has been discussed before. The background to this is that there have been quite strong and unambiguous signals from representatives of the government parties that the proposal presented by the government has some elements in itself that make it absurd. Raymond Johansen, party secretary in the Workers' Party, used that expression when he spoke of having the same code for large parts of the West as for Oslofjord and the South Coast. It's also said here, from the Center Party, that this thing with differentiation is kind of something that the red-green government has been at the head of. I guess that's turning it a little bit on my head. The reason why we have had this coastal uprising this year is precisely the proposal of this government that large parts of the West should be treated in the same way as Oslofjorden. Nordmarka too – I remember the debate here in February when the Council of State stood pointing at Oslomarka and at Oslofjorden and said: Look at this beautiful administrative regime we have there, we need it all along the coast. I'm glad the Council of State is giving a slightly different signal now. I think the uprising that has come along the coast – there are 14 coastal municipalities in Hordaland, among others. which is behind it, and some of them are run by local red-green politicians – who have also gone into the government, that the guidelines they have proposed involve an absurd way of governing. Then you've been involved with the county. It is stated in the letter from the Ministry of the Environment on this matter: ‘On the other hand, the State shall exercise great caution in examining the political judgement of the Municipal Council in local circumstances.’ I was about to say that had only been like this, there had been no problem. But there are many of us who also have a background from local politics, and who see that this is not really the case. I think we can all say that we are concerned with the public and by securing the areas that the public actually uses. This is what you do in the western coastal districts of the Progress Party. Municipalities purchase these areas to ensure that the public is able to access them. But not all areas are suitable for that. We now have a case in Bergen, where a person has applied for a floating bridge along a steep mountain party. An almost unanimous cross-political building council in Bergen has been in favour of this, and so it is felt that the county council is turning it around across the whole local political regime. The person who has crashed into the county is the head of the Building Council of the Workers Party. But I feel that there is a little more acceptance from the government now. I think that's positive. I guess there's a lot of signals coming in to the government that show that the way you've been thinking, you can't do it. Then we just have to hope that at the end of the seventh, it can be solved in a way that not only cares for the public's interests, but also those that actually live along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1724	These three minutes I'm going to use to show a few examples from my municipality of residence, Farsund, and the neighbouring municipality of Flekkefjord. In the South, it is an old tradition to build a boathouse. There the boats can be safely placed under the roof. The possibility of boathouses lies in a small difference between the raft and the spring. Boating and marine life is important for many in coastal municipalities, and the need for boating is great. The waiting lists are long, and many people never experience getting a boat stop. A control plan with 500 boat seats and 23 boathouses was adopted by the local government of Farsund, but objections were raised from the county. The Ministry of the Environment confirmed the objections of the county council and decided that the boathouses had to be removed from the plan. I have been working on municipal regulation plans for 30 years, both as a bureaucrat and a politician, but I have never been in a position to make a decision from the department that is as serious as this. In the Question Time on 17 February, I raised this matter with the State Council, Solheim, where I asked that the department look again at this decision. The council would not reconsider the matter, but in general they replied that the reason was that the beach zone was to be used for walking, playing football and grilling. This applies to a plant to be placed in a very steep slope between the ricks road and the sea, which is useless to some of these activities. This is such a wrong decision that I want to compare the case with a murder. The defence of a concrete refusal with a general justification means that the opinion loses all respect for political decisions. The population notices that the Ministry of the Environment and its members attach greater evaluative power to the bureaucrats of the county than to the local politicians. The boathouse rejections in Farsund must be like a bauta over one of the largest state overruns and miscarriages in local democracy done by the Solheim State Council. In the neighbouring municipality of Flekkefjord there is an approved coastal zone plan regulated for cabin purposes. When this plan is to be implemented, the county demands that current guidelines be applied retrospectively. The plan is located in the Ministry of Environment, and the municipality awaits the decisions of the department. If we don't get a strengthening of local democracy soon, all interest in local politics disappears. All construction in the beach zone must be carried out on a flat basis, but no rejection must be made on a general basis. Finally, my strongest wish for the failure of Farsund and the appeal from Flekkefjord is that the Council of State is humble of criticism. Conversion of the decision on boathouse rejection in Farsund would be very well received by both socialist and bourgeois voters. At the mouth of the people in Farsund, Solheim’s opinions and decisions in the boathouse case are laughed at.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1743	Looking into nature, being curious about flora and fauna, taking in the natural experience, seeing the value of using mountains, seas, forests and nature to get experiences and recreation in the increasingly urbanised everyday life are of the most important qualities we have in this country. We have a fantastic nature! That's why it's so crucial for us that we take care of general interests and possibilities in order to use this magnificent nature, and therefore the Workers' Party has always been occupied with free movement and general rights. That's what this is all about. For the user of nature, it does not matter whether it is the state or the county or the municipality that administers this regime, if one is sure that the general right to free movement and use of nature is possible. This applies to the mountain, and it applies to the length of the sea, which this is now talking about. Basically, I think it's very good that the municipalities have the ability to manage nature. But when it comes to this thing along the beach zone, the restrictions have just come because very many municipalities have been too liberal in giving exemptions, so that a good part of the coast has been built down. As many have pointed out, it is primarily the Oslofjord area and downwards towards the South. That is why the red-green government stands for a differentiated policy in this area. Siri Meling said it's not unexpected that the Labour Party and SV are in charge of this behavior. Yes, it was very good that the Right said that we are very recognizable of that, for Right or others should not be surprised that we want to take care of the general rights to free movement. That's what we've been fighting for over time. We will stand for that, and we will fight for that in the future – 'to the bitter end'. Many of us have seen in other countries how private owners, hotels, etc. simply reconstructing and seizing parts of the coast. I have tried to jog along the coast when I have been to vacation some places. One doesn't show up, one doesn't get to put one's foot in the domain -- actually, there are some places like that in Norway, too. We had to stop this, if this development were not to close precisely to the enormously important value to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1754	It has been said by several representatives of the Progress Party and the Right that Norway is not a large country, so at least a country where there are major differences. Yeah, that's right. There are big differences. But I have to say that I am quite amazed at the debate. In the context of a very large number of previous large-scale announcements, the right party has been supporting the national objectives of maintaining the beach zone – they have even said some time back as in the 1990s that they wanted differentiated guidelines in the area of the beach and have argued that they should have it in press areas. Rogaland and Hordaland are some of the states that, among other things, will be discussed here, where in the future – if not for a long time – there will be about one million people. That someone doesn't see that these are press areas, I think it's incredibly nice. In this case, the Right has turned in relation to what they have stood for before, as they have considered that there are areas to be taken care of. Here the representative Skumsvoll has good examples, he thinks. I could frame just as many other good examples, but with the opposite sign – in the municipality of Stavanger, in the municipality of Sandnes, in Ryfylke and up through Hordaland. But what's going to be wrong is that we don't debate anything either – or a total ban, as the representative of Skovholt Gitmark says from this pulpit. The thing is, we don't want to end up in that situation, for example. Hordaland and Rogaland, which one has landed in the Oslofjord area and in parts of the South. It's not like that, as the representative Skumsvoll says, there wouldn't be any southern villages if it wasn't because it wasn't free to build. I think the southern villages had been there, anyway. What could possibly have been, was that one in Blindlead and along the coast of the South could get in, or walk along the sea on foot. It is completely impossible today on large parts of the south coast, and it is even impossible to get a boat from the sea into the south coast and add as a normal human being. This case is not a case of total prohibition or either – or. The Council of State has now said – as state councils have said before – that he will in the long term see that one has to differentiate between municipal borders. He has even said, long before this proposal came, that one must look at the possibilities of differentiation also internally in the municipalities. Here I feel that the whole burden of proof in the matter is overwhelming on the government and the red-green side. In the spirit of local democracy, the municipalities have said yes, yes, and areas have been built up and developed. I am very surprised that the Right now is turning to something that has been important for them for decades — having national targets for coastal zone policy — and that it is also in national interest that municipal politicians and state politicians also see the national targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1765	Only a few comments on what has been said in the debate. The representative of Åland says that differentiated management is nothing new. Yes, it is. There's something new. Since the general building ban came, it has not been our differentiated administration around the country, according to legislation and regulations. This is precisely why it is important to establish this principle. It has one done, and one already in the planning and building laws that it was going to be done. And then it's a pleasure that so many of the opposition's representatives support this idea. When a representative hears Lødemel speaking, one can get the impression that the Right, unlike the Center Party, wants local democracy. One could almost get the impression that it was just before one was about to propose the removal of the entire building ban, out of the rhetoric that Right has led in this hall. In any case, there is a proposal that I have not registered yet. There's a bigger difference on the Right now and Børge Burnde's Right than it is on the Right now and what the Red-Green government has presented. It seems to me to illustrate quite well that the differentiation we are now introducing has quite a lot of support in the Storting, although the rhetoric would suggest that one here has proposed a completely different policy – a much more rigorous policy – than before. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1774	Hardly anything in connection with land management along our long-distance coast is more controversial than the coastal zone management. We have a press area that's worth protecting. However, many people find that the areas that are not under pressure at all still have a restrictive treatment in spite of what is being said today. The government's emphasis on coastal zone policy in recent years is on a role model that does not belong in Norway, and a lot of things show that it is high time to develop a new and forward-looking regulation that takes care of local democracy, and not least local knowledge. Today's guidelines are so rigid and inconclusive for low-pressure areas that they lack legitimacy and understanding. Now we hear that the council claims it's different, but one doesn't experience it that way in the districts. Then there is a missing link. Lack of knowledge about local conditions and rigidity leads to great frustration and is reinforced by the overrun of generally agreed recommendations from local democracy, represented by local government and responsible selections. This helps to strengthen a monthly moving stream from the districts to the central struts, due to a lack of local freedom of action, and we have seen many of them. The problem of the beach zone is no longer apparent by all the signals that come from the various government councils when challenged in the media. The counterpower of Navarsete is an example. And once again, we see that the Central Party, which should be the party of the districts, fails and leaves the Socialist Left Party totally dominating – and uses the time of temporary projects that provide a skin of district exposure. Everyone is looking forward to this being a game for the gallery and little else. When the representative Sund thinks that the right side is without backbone in the beach zone management, it is likely that the big hearing along the coastline that the Labour Party has now proclaimed that they will take back. So if that's the medicine we see today that's going to be printed, then there's only one thing to say: wrong medicine can even be the best printable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1789	The representative of Eirin Sund is wrong. The picture the representative draws from the south coast is not correct. There is not a single municipality along the entire south coast that has built more than 50 pst. of the areas. In fact, the very few municipalities are close to such numbers. There has been a reasonable expansion along the south coast – an extension that some red-green politicians believe has gone too fast – that has given ordinary people cabins, which have allowed ordinary people to spend a summer or a few weeks along the coast. For me, it's fundamentally positive. But we have to be careful, of course, given that our areas are being built down. Therefore, it is important that we have the combination of national policy guidelines. Right is not opposed to national policy guidelines, but we want a local democracy, a well-functioning local democracy as well. This is because a steep slope can actually have a small cabin without it having any significance to the public. But in a system where everything is the coin that you're either inside or outside a hundred meter belt, it's actually a total ban on what Eirin Sund puts up to. I want to go as far as to invite Eirin Sund to the south coast, so that we can go out into the boat together and look at the amazing unspoiled pearls that are, and that we can swing into some other port as well and look at the amazingly inhabited pearls that Southland has to offer. We have more possibilities than strong state restrictions, or, for that matter, almost total bans. There are possibilities like archipelago park, an alternative that I think will be considerably better if you actually pay landowners what the properties are worth, and not the three dollars and fifty dollars that have been common per square meter in so many cases. One also has the opportunity to say that a local majority also means something, that it is not without reason that Farsund, with a strong Right and a strong Advance Party, actually suggests that more people should have boating grounds in areas where the public is not travelling. These would have been areas that would have been open to the public, not closed again to the public. We shall never make that kind of decisions in the Grand Duchy, there must be local democracy. The guiding principle of the Right is precisely the combination of leading stock-holding, local self-government and ownership. All of this is possible to combine, but then you must not be so narrow-minded as to believe that everything can be controlled from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1800	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1803	I want to follow up on Gitmark's posts and say that it is correct that there are very few municipalities that have built a lot of the beach zone. The municipality of Farsund built over a 20-year period down 2 pst. It will take 100 years to build down 10 pst. at this speed – and they have been criticized for giving so many exemptions. But what is the case is that the socialists and their attitude prevent the least middlemen from getting a cabin on the Southland, because on the South and along the Oslo Bank it is completely different. Where I come from, Farsund – which is as far south of the country as possible – can all build themselves a cabin if you get permission. Then you have to differentiate and say that here it can be built, and here it cannot be built. I invite the Council of State and the Committee to come and see what it's like in Farsund. Then you might get a different view of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1811	I have a little comment for the representative Sande's post. I can take from what is stated in our proposal for a representative as regards the background for differentiation. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 7 March 2010, the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, Raymond Johansen, says that he has a desire to get the Workers' Party back to power in the South and West. Then he points specifically to the beach zone law as a problem, and says that the proposal for a new beach zone law is being made – and here we are talking about the red-green government's proposal for beach zone law – ‘is easy to defend in relation to the Oslofjorden and the South Coast, where there is strong construction pressure. But it becomes absurd that the same legislation should apply to large parts of the West." This is not the case either with the Right Party or with the Advance Party, this is the party secretary in the Workers' Party who has said. That's very well said. A little bit of the starting point for the debate here was that we wanted to see if the red-greens were going to follow up what the party secretary in the Workers' Party said, or if this is just rhetoric because you want power and get in position in the West. It has been understood that then you have to listen to people, and especially when it comes to beach areas, it has been a problem. Therefore, there was great protest and uprising when this proposal was presented, not only from bourgeoisly overthrown municipalities, but especially from those who have been run by the Central Party and the Workers' Party along the coast. Finally, I would like to re-examine what I mentioned in my previous post, which is what the Council of State writes in the letter to the Committee on this matter: ‘On the other hand, the State shall exercise great caution in examining the political judgement of the Municipal Council in local circumstances.’ We who are in the districts experience that this is very often not working. I would like to make a wish to the Council of State: Is the Council of State willing to issue guidelines that underline this to the people around it, that they should be careful to enter where the municipality has had a thorough process? We have such a thing as I mentioned, in Bergen. I have to say that if it's about the public going to use some of these areas, as in that case from Bergen, and also in other matters that someone has mentioned here, if the public is going to go ashore there and grill, they must at least bring with them solid, advanced climbing equipment to get into port. I don't recommend it either, because it's so stony and so foreign that I don't think there's anyone going ashore there for neither grilling nor playing football or anything else. Then it makes sense to use these areas for business development — creating jobs. It will actually provide access to areas that are currently not available along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1830	The Christian People's Party, as indicated in its position, stands together with the majority in this case – together with not supporting the proposal that has been promoted. There have been many debates about the beach zone and the management of the beach zone in the hall here in recent years. It's not without reason, because there are issues that arouse great attention and great commitment among people. Yes, local self-government is important. Yes, local freedom to decide within a responsible framework is important. But it will also be the case – not least in environmental policy, but also in other areas – that a good democracy will always be a cooperative, a balance, between local self-government and national policies. Yes, because it is true that there are many municipalities, both in the South and in other parts of the country, that have built up less than 50 pst. of its beach area and have relatively large uninhabited areas again. But as long as that expansion continues, as there's actually room to do with today's legislation, it's just a matter of time before you've built over 50 pst, before you've built over 60 pst, and before you've built 70 and 80 pst. As long as you eat from an apple, it gets smaller and smaller again by the apple. It's that simple. And that's why, in a way, the coastal zone policy has to take it on board. For issues of democracy in the management of the coastal zone, it is not just a question of balance between national authorities and local authorities. There is also a question of a balance between today's population and the generations that come after us. Because we can, by releasing this for free, destroy the freedom of action of the generations that come after us. It is also a fact that local democracy has its challenges in terms of spatial planning. It may be as simple as a local government figure in a municipality for a period wanting to expand the southern part of its coastal zone, while the local government in the period afterwards wants to expand the northern part of the coastal zone and have a different view of it. And that's how you can keep eating up a beach zone year by year, period by period. Therefore, there is, and should be, a balance between national policies and local autonomy in coastal zone issues. It is very important that there are national guidelines and that policy is used to ensure that future generations are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1841	Just to comment on a couple-three things in the end: Gitmark, Skumsvoll and others have wanted me to comment in principle, but in local matters. It's an exercise that I'm asking for understanding for is very, very difficult. It's very difficult to say something in principle about a matter that there's a great local commitment about without going into it. But let me just say the general, as I have said repeatedly here – I am absolutely sure that the county officials listen very carefully – and that is that my attitude is that one should be very restrictive where it is about privatising new areas that are widely available – preventing them from being widely used by the most – while one can be far more liberal on small changes where there are already population, where there are façade changes, small additions, small changes, where one does not privatise areas that have been accessible to the public. There can be much more liberal. So now we're talking about the densely developed areas along the Oslo soil and elsewhere. Then several have referred to Party Secretary Raymond Johansen. Let me then say that I have known him for 30 years – I was with him last weekend – so I invoke the right to know more about what Raymond Johansen thinks than the Progress Party and the Right does. I am absolutely sure that what he said was exactly what the government is doing now – that we are adding to a differentiated policy where we are going to go through these municipalities in North Rogaland and Hordaland, also Farsund and Flekkefjord, in which Skumsvoll is very engaged, and some municipalities in South Trondelag – these are the municipalities that think they are misplaced. We need to figure out how to deal with them in the new, differentiated system, as well as the possibilities of possibly looking at differences between these municipalities and within those municipalities. Then I just have to say in the end that it was claimed that in the few of the southern municipalities, more than half of it is built. Let us not forget then that also in the south coast there are fundamental differences between areas that are both attractive to the public and attractive for cabin construction, and areas that are not attractive to any of the parts, for various reasons. Once upon a time, the world has calculated that a property my family had up in the Gudbrand Valley was worth 800 million. NOK, if I don't remember the amount the World Times had found out, wrong. It was based on the fact that if we could sell cabins on the back of the Gudbrand Valley, down at the Low, where no solar beam has appeared since Adam and Eve's time, for the same price as one can sell cabins in Hafjell, where we have no property, then our forest property in the Gudbrand Valley would be worth 800 million. kr. But that calculation doesn't go completely together, because you have to be quite good at selling a land on the back of the valley, down at the Low for the same price as where it is attractive – i.e. in Hafjell. The same reasoning, of course, applies along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1854	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3747]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1868	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1877	The representative proposal on environmental and climate work in municipalities gives us the opportunity to focus on an important issue: the central role of municipalities in achieving the objectives of national environmental and climate work. The main aim of the proposals is to increase the development and exchange of competences in municipalities in order to enable them to meet national environmental and climate objectives. Proposals focus on the conservation of biological deficiency, soil protection, the conservation of open air areas, access to green lungs, the remediation of contaminated soil, local air pollution, waste and greenhouse gas emissions, and they believe that municipalities need to be better equipped to solve these tasks locally. The municipalities are involved in managing all nature in Norway. Local government shall contribute to the implementation of both local and national environmental policies. Local authorities have many roles and tools for e.g. bringing down greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. They're political actors, they're service providers, they're buyers, they're ownership owners, and they're responsible for good places to live for the people. Therefore, they can make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions both in their own operations by imposing strict requirements as purchasers and by influencing other actors. In particular, they can affect emissions from transport, waste landfills, stationary energy use and agriculture. Municipalities have many of the keys to achieve these goals. We need to raise awareness of natural disasters in order to understand the measures needed to achieve national and international objectives. As the proposers, the government is also busy that municipalities will be able to play that role. Therefore, the government has focused on precisely environmental and climate work in municipalities. In the setting, the following examples: Through the Future Programme, Norway and Norway are cooperating 13 major cities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make cities more environmentally friendly. Through exchange of experience with other cities and cooperation with both countries, businesses and citizens, cities will become greener. In «Citys of the Future», climate-friendly products are more commonplace and cleaner. In the programme «Livskraftige kommuner», 200 municipalities have worked in learning networks with other municipalities. The good advice and experience that will be exchanged is about everything from how to turn back giant bear biscuits, to waste management and energy efficiency improvement. The programme is linked to the Green Energy Municipalities project, which focuses on energy efficiency improvement and green energy use to reduce emissions. In addition, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has financed climate and energy courses for municipalities since 2007. In addition, there is a set of means of training in the new Law on Planning and Building. The leadership role of the Directorates, county councillors and county councils towards the municipalities should be strengthened. The task of the community is to help municipalities develop a robust, intercommunal professional environment in the field of planning and the environment. The government has focused heavily on the role of municipalities in environmental and climate change. Without the local authorities' efforts, when we didn't measure. For this reason, the government has focused on the development and exchange of competences in municipalities, and will continue to do so in the future. The majority of the Committee believes that the proposal for a representative's most important wish is through the government's policy. The vote on the motion for a resolution will therefore be taken at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1903	Municipalities are crucial, central actors if we are to achieve our superior national goals. It applies in the climate and environment as well as in almost all other areas. Therefore, municipalities must have resources; they must have competence, willingness and ability to operate the environment in a good way. These include everything from land-use planning, renovation, waste management, biodiversity management, open air areas, soil protection, greenhouse gas emissions, etc. Of course, the state has a responsibility – not only to raise national overarching targets, to adopt new laws, guidelines and requirements, but also to help and guide municipalities in managing these environmental tasks. In my time as a municipal politician and spokesperson, I felt that the state was setting up ear-marked contributions for the creation of environmental consultants. So here there were many jobs for newly born high school candidates in an area that was not so large at the time, but that later has grown quite formidable – both in the directorate, department and county council, and in the county. But these environmental consultants certainly also put the environmental work on the agenda, and got focused on it around Norwegian municipalities. Since then, there has also been extensive cooperation between the State and local authorities in this field. In the «Cities of the Future» programme, the Ministry of the Environment cooperates with the 13 largest cities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make cities more environmentally friendly. This is where the transport sector is at the core. And here's the Ministry of Transport and Transport, the authorities of transport, a great task to do when it comes to the instrument of reconciliation for collective action. It must be linked to the will of the municipalities to restrict the use of cars and perhaps sometimes to differentiated toll systems, etc. There are questions about the construction of pedestrian and bicycle roads. There are issues of good organisation for public transport, and not least good spatial planning, where one can in the long term reduce the need for running between workplaces and residential areas. I think it is very important that we challenge the municipality and respect the municipality's overall judgement in this area. I've seen some examples of the state overseeing the municipality where a person has really tried to take this great sense of health in order to get closeness between workplaces and residential areas, but where the care of soil protection has become more important to government than health. The Life Forced Municipalities programme is another programme supported by the State. Then use a means of training in the new planning and building laws and new natural disasters. In addition, the guidance role of the Directorate, the State and the counties should be strengthened in due course. The Green Energy Municipalities programme, from 2007 to 2010, aims to achieve energy efficiency improvement, renewable energy and reduce climate change emissions. When it comes to energy savings, I simply believe that municipalities have a solid potential, for example. in the new large cabin areas. If a district heating system is introduced, etc., there is a lot to pick up in that area. Enova finances a good deal of action. It is also a tool to strengthen the planning and environmental competence of municipalities that is assessed in the 2011 budget. All of this is well and good, but the most important thing is that we have a good framework economy for the municipal sector, where one has the ability to do a good job in this area, and that the environmental dimension becomes an integral part of all the activities in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1926	The right supports the Left's proposal. Norwegian municipalities need sufficient resources, knowledge and competence to ensure the important role of municipalities in environmental and climate work. The majority of Norwegian municipalities have it today. The largest municipalities have the opportunity to develop and follow up offensive, professionally anchored environmental and climate policies. Oslo is a good example of a large municipality with very ambitious climate targets and good results to point to. However, the Norwegian average municipality is small in number of inhabitants, but large in the number of square metres each of them can fasten. It makes it professional and resource-intensive to meet national objectives such as the conservation of biodiversity, soil protection, open air areas, decontamination of contaminated land, air pollution, waste management and greenhouse gas emissions. Most of the environmental challenges in Norway need to find their local solution. Therefore, it is essential that we enable the municipalities to do that job in a good way. Pending that municipal reform many of us may agree that is a prerequisite for strengthening and further developing local self-government, the proposals of the Left are correct and necessary. In Oslo, we see what can be done if the municipality has a resource and political priority for climate and environmental work. The greenhouse gas emissions shall be cut by 50 pst. by 2030. It is an ambitious objective that requires ambitious action. The 750 enterprises of the municipality are being certified for the environment. Oil firing will be phased out of all municipal buildings by 2012. Remote heat production has doubled and biogas and bio-fertilisation production is under construction, based on household food waste and sewage. On the Skøyen in Oslo there are 5,000 dwellings that get heat and hot water based on waste heat in the main sewer. It's probably not going to be much more circuit-based. In Bjørvika, fjord heating is to be established that will cool the buildings in the summer and heat them in the winter. Rivers are reopened. The fjord has never been cleaner than this year. The water in the spring is cleaned in a split new water treatment plant on Oset, and the land around the city is preserved on nature's premises ever since Christiania bought its first forests in the 1800s. With a growth of 10,000 to 15 000 people this year, Oslo practises an environmentally friendly consolidation policy around the collective node, not least illustrated by the denseness of Norway's largest collective node, Oslo S. It must be an important and proper priority to enable municipalities to identify local environmental challenges, whether they are contaminated land or water, waste management or natural habitat type registration. It is equally important to provide local authorities with tools to follow-up in practice. The person closest to the problem is often the most suitable person to solve it — and also with the municipalities in Norway. If we are to meet the objective of the climate agreement to cut emissions in Norway by 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 by 2020 – and I have made that quite clear here today that the Right is behind – we have to act on a broad front. Today it is the large municipalities that go ahead and show way on many important questions, while the state and the government are leaning after. We should give all the municipalities the opportunity to join in and pull the load.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1942	I can stand behind most of what was said from the previous speaker. I just want to add that it is in the municipality's own interest to use the energy and environmental resources you have, sensible. In this way, it is a good reminder to have a proposal like this and a debate like this to stimulate the municipalities to do so. At the same time, I think we should avoid the fact that one of the central authorities ends up putting more and more pressure on the municipalities in the climate work, while the government itself postpones its climate communication and not least against, for example. The municipality of Lindå completely destroys any attempt to obtain normal CO2 accounting after the government has scrapped the Mongstad project. At the same time, it is important to enable municipalities to carry out the tasks that make sense, and not least to enable municipalities to carry out the tasks that central authorities require them to do. We can't have a national not being able to commit to anything, don't present global gross domestic product messages because a waiter for foreign processes, while expecting a municipal authority to progress in these areas and make decisions almost costing what they will cost. The Progress Party therefore has a note in this setting where we ask the Ministry of the Environment to ensure that climate plans that are now being made in the municipalities are evaluated – not necessarily all of them, but that a representative sample of random municipalities is reviewed to see that the plans that have been laid down and on which a lot of time has been spent in many municipalities actually give something back, that this is not going to be bureaucratic tasks that one implements without really getting so much back for the money and the time that local politicians spend. On the part of the Progress Party, we believe that if one is to cut the CO2 emissions and take that part of the proposal, it is a national and, not least, global approach that needs to be taken. Putting a lot of pressure on municipalities has relatively little use compared to what they can actually affect. I would also like to point out that there are many areas where one of the central authorities has huge gaps. For example, it's about something as simple as buying electricity, where everyone in this room is very happy that we have renewable energy in Norway, and many are taking a distance from nuclear power, and gas power is also very problematic, but there are very few state companies or offices buying electricity with a guarantee of origin. Such measures would make the government's demands more credible, when they're out there telling the municipalities what to do, because then you've at least gone ahead as a good example yourself. The good example is lacking in many places. The government is very good at making claims to the municipalities without delivering them on its own. But all in all: it is in the municipality's own interest and in national interest that one uses his energy and environmental resources in a good way, and making the municipalities able to do so is also supported by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1961	All emissions are local. It may seem like a cliché, but there is every reason to establish this on any appropriate occasion, and this is an appropriate occasion. For there is no lack of policy actors who believe that what we do in Norway is insignificant because there are so much more emissions elsewhere. Everybody could say that. Everyone will be able to point to someone else, who is bigger or letting out more – our neighboring country, our neighboring municipality, the other factory, the store across the street. Therefore, it is so important to also focus on the role of municipalities in environmental work and in climate work. That's why examples like Arendal are so uplifting – a municipality that has set itself the goal of becoming climate neutral during 2017, if I don't remember wrong, and they're ready to succeed. Such examples make the action space visible to municipalities already have today to address the environment and climate, and what potential exists in the public sector in Norway, which represents many million tonnes of CO2. Often such an effort is also profitable. It's not just climate and nature that will benefit from more energy saving, for example, it does the one that saves. I myself attended the Environmental Workers' Conference in South-Trundelag, under the direction of the County of South-Trundelag in March this year, which brings together environmental workers from all the municipalities in the county. The width of their tasks is great, and the amount of challenges is all the greater. Their competence is varied and wide, as it must be, but many feel a little alone at times and feel the need for more follow-up. It is therefore also gratifying that the Climate and Pollution Directorate and the Directorate for Nature Management will strengthen their work on the organisation, follow-up and guidance of municipalities as environmental protection authorities. The Ministry of the Environment, for its part, will strengthen the focus on the environment in the education of the population. There is an important debate on the Left on this proposal. That is why I am also confident that the government will assess various instruments to strengthen the environmental competence of municipalities in the process of the government budget coming next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1975	The national objectives and ambitions of environmental policy, not to say the international ones, have increased sharply in recent decades, as we have become aware of the size and dimensions of the challenges we face. This is true in the climate field, where we have seen gradually, over several decades, that the seriousness is even greater than you had first thought, that changes are happening faster than you've ever thought. Similarly, without equal attention to it, we also see that the challenges for ecosystems through change and reduction of biodiversity represent at least the same challenge. Together, this challenges all the world’s countries – large-scale actions, national action plans and radical policies in many areas. Seventh and last, the different actions shall be implemented in local communities, in the local environment, in municipalities. Not all decisions are taken locally, but many important decisions are taken locally. They should be organised and the impact of decisions carried out locally. Every day, decisions are taken in Norwegian municipalities, long-term spatial plans, other types of plans, which provide guidance for emission patterns and loads on the areas and land use for generations to come. This is precisely why municipalities are so important in environmental policy and in achieving the ambitions we have. Then we not only have the climate and biodiversity as challenges, but we have, as the proposers also point to, soil protection, conservation of open air areas, access to green lungs, cleaning up contaminated land, we have local pollution and not least waste policy. In all these areas, local authorities play an important role. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party believes that greater attention is needed on the role and potential of municipalities in environmental policy. In its letter of reply, the Council of State refers to various measures that are already in progress and have been taking place over time in this area, in order to strengthen the municipalities. However, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for an even more dedicated effort in this area and that there is a need for action, as pointed out by the proposers in the proposal promoted by the Left. On that basis, I take up the proposal that the Christian People's Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1990	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e1993	First of all, I would like to thank the Party of Presidents, the Right and the Christian People's Party for taking the Left's proposal into account in the Committee's vote. The background to promoting this proposal is that we have gained knowledge that many municipalities experience a disproportionate relationship between the national objectives and the resources made available to follow-up them. It is a strength for environmental and climate work and local democracy if local authorities are increasingly equipped to meet local environmental challenges. Therefore, the Left wants local anchoring to be provided as much as possible of the competence within this field. We have learned that this is not the case today, and the worst is the small municipalities. I am pleased with the positive wording of the letter from the Council of State, where he says he will look at other possible means of strengthening the municipal environmental competence plan in the context of the 2011 budgetary process. I wonder more at the majority in the Committee, which refers to Enova, who will wind up direct support for energy and climate plans when it is now mandatory to draw up such plans. For municipalities that have not yet started work, the last deadline for submission of State aid has been set at 1 July 2010. When we look at Enova's websites, we see that only 160 municipalities have developed energy and climate plans. 239 have decided to draw up a plan, while in 32 municipalities the status is unknown or without a plan decision. Once again, the smallest municipalities are following – without taking up the debate on large and small municipalities here. I also have the impression that it is mainly about energy plans and less about climate plans, which the municipalities have developed – without me having any good statistical evidence to strongly believe about this. Finally, the Left welcomes the support we feel in this matter and looks forward to the initiative of the government in the 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2004	The government shares Borghild Tenden's intention of making municipalities more active, doing more in climate work and environmental policy in general. We think it is positive that emphasis is placed on it, and as many speakers have said in the debate, the local and concrete releases are taking place – not in some kind of abstract world out there. One has to get to grips with what's going on, and the municipalities are very important actors. There are already a series of processes that have an intersection with what is proposed here. We have the "Citys of the Future" programme, where the 13 largest cities are active – much is done there. Astrup had a good start on the municipal election campaign with a review of what is done in Oslo, but a lot of good work is done both in Oslo and in the other municipalities in many areas. We have the programme «Livskraftige kommuner», how much more municipalities are involved, and it is a series of other actions. Government planning guidelines for climate and energy planning have been issued in the municipalities, how many municipalities have followed up with their own plans. Although there are often a significant number of non-participating municipalities, it is clear that the municipalities involved cover the overall population — and emissions. Municipalities have a strong influence on a series of aspects of climate policy: land planning – I come back to shopping centres quite soon, but that is an example of that – public transport is another example. Energy supply, both the municipality's own energy use and the organisation of its citizens, is another area. Soon, the climate adaptation committee will be set up, and municipalities will be able to do their job there as well. Finally, I would like to point to a theme that I believe is important to address. It's that we can't have it like that every time there are new and important tasks, it must necessarily be that all actors have to do everything they did before, then this comes to the top, and they have to have new money to do it. Not long ago I had a good exchange with some of my very good friends in the Norwegian Church, where they declared that the Norwegian Church would become a very important climate policy actor. But the assumption was that the state contributed money, so that they could get some jobs to do this. It must be possible for the Norwegian Church, within the framework of the difficult appropriations they have, and all the positions they have, to see if none of them can be used in the climate field. So it didn't go long before I met someone from LO, and the jam was the exact same message there as well. The LO would also become very active in the field – as long as they could get government funding to do something. If you hit people from business, it's very rare to hear the same thing, that they too have to do a whole lot in the climate area as much as the state pays for it – and now it's the municipalities. So it's not like climate comes to the top of everything else you do here in the world, as a new challenge. Climate is one of the most central or, perhaps, the most central challenge facing humanity, crucial to address everyone, whether it be the Church, the trade movement, the business community or the municipalities. It can't be that you have to do everything just like before – in the old way – and get extra funding before you start doing anything in the climate field. When I say this, it's because we have to look at all the support schemes we have, and how we can help make them more effective, and look at all the guidelines that come from the state. But we're going to be careful to create new systems that primarily have the effect that things you would still do are done by applying for new money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2020	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2023	The national objectives are good, but, as I was in my post, it is a challenge, especially in small municipalities, to lack competent people – we are constantly getting feedback about it – and local anchoring is so important to deal with planning, for example. What can we do with this? Does the Council have any ideas about what to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2030	Of course, this is real. It is clear that the capacity of Utsira to operate climate planning differs significantly from that of Oslo in terms of expertise, knowledge, apparatus, etc. But I believe the answer to that must be partly that municipalities cooperate on competences, partly that larger municipalities that have a very large apparatus, and often make investigations that in practice will also relate to neighbouring municipalities, can make it available, and that county councils and state apparatus must be able to make competences, persons and more knowledge available to the smallest municipalities. There is, of course, also a question of political will, but there are very much questions about the size of the municipalities in terms of their ability to address these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2037	I'd like to do another line while I first stand here. Will the Minister for the Environment – i.e. incentive schemes – contribute to the budget for the autumn in order to get a little more local anchoring and a little more knowledge into the municipalities about this important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2044	What we should specifically contribute to the budget, of course, I cannot say now. There are many schemes already, and we will look at the need for any new ones, but I reject the idea that you always have to have new money to do something. Often it is a flexible way to use all the resources that are there, by helping the larger municipalities less, by bringing together municipalities about knowledge, and by helping the smaller municipalities. But it is a real problem that the representative points out, that many smaller municipalities do not have the apparatus, knowledge and competence to really address the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2051	It is quite possible to agree with Erik Solheim that not all tasks will be wasted new, fresh money. It is also possible to imagine that municipalities kept a little more of their own tax revenues – that there was a possible funding model. But to follow up on the question from Borghild Tenden: Do I interpret you correctly if I interpret you there that larger municipalities would have succeeded better in the climate work? Would the Council agree that there could be an advantage to fewer and larger municipalities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2058	The President must remember that all speeches should be addressed to the President, even though I registered that the representative has improved along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2061	I think I have the pleasure of being able to say that there are some questions I'm very happy not to have so many opinions about, and this is one of them. I don't think I'm going to have any strong opinions about community mergers right now. I record that some municipalities join forces on a voluntary basis – like Windfjord and Beer, which have voluntarily joined forces. I heard it was also a referendum in the Nord-Trøndelag, with a similar process. That's of course something you can just applaud. Whether it makes sense to have a larger community merger process, I'm not going to have any very strong opinions about it, but it's clear that it's real that small municipalities themselves cannot have sufficient competence on energy issues or municipal climate change planning, when the municipalities have only a few hundred inhabitants. Then you have to search for it elsewhere — in cooperation with other municipalities or get it from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2068	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3747]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2086	The President noted that there was a sufficient position on the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2097	It is important to anchor the past when changing for the future. That's what gives us identity and tells us who we are. These words, I think, sum up in a short but precise and good way what important tasks have been assigned to the national antiquities office. The Riksantikvar is given responsibility for the accumulation and government to preserve national cultural monuments. Through the law on cultural memories, the national antiquities have among other things: power to protect buildings and structures. These safeguard decisions and other decisions under the Cultural Memory Act follow the rules of the Administrative Act on alert, justification and right of appeal. Any decision may subsequently be appealed against to the Ministry of the Environment, which is the ultimate national antitrust product, and may therefore be subject to political judgement at the end of the day. It is therefore highly misleading when it is manufactured as if the national product is not subject to democratic control and political control. The Riksantikvaren also has the right of objection under the Planning and Building Act in respect of the municipality's spatial plans. This is an ordinary procedure. In this area, too, if local authorities and national authorities do not reach an agreement, the Ministry of the Environment is the one who makes a final decision. The Riksantikvaren mission is a heavy social responsibility. Ensuring values of national value requires strong instruments and could conflict with local interests. We have similar situations in a number of areas of society, nature conservation, beach protection — which we discussed earlier in the hall — agriculture, just to name a few. The Riksantikvar shall point out whether cultural historical reasons have not been respected. It is the task of the National Antiquities to do that, a job and a mission that the Norwegian government has given to the office. I think the ricksman does that job in an exemplary and good way. When the national product exercises its right of objection, it is in line with the mandate given by the Norwegian Storing. To disagree politically with one thing is an honest thing. However, seeking to punish a public office in order to do its job because of political disagreement is both impeccable and in frontier countries for what one believes should be an open and well-functioning democracy. For this reason, I have to say that I react quite strongly when I see that the Progress Party in the wake of some specific issues where they disagree is seeking to cut the rickshaw. Politicians who do not deal with criticism and differing views are, in my view, very poor decision-makers. We in the red-green believe that the ricksantikvar has a very important, if not always as popular job. As a nation, it is important to protect its history. Our story is our national anchoring on both good and bad. In this area, the protection of cultural memories is very central. A nation that cannot afford to take into account central cultural memories as a historical anchor for posterity will also become a poor nation over time. We in the red-green will build up under the fact that Norway will continue to be a rich nation of more than material values in the future. We will also protect our rich history and our common cultural anchoring. For this reason, we are grateful for the important job that the national antiquities are doing in our society. For this reason, we do not support the proposal under consideration here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2118	I would like to start by pointing out that the proposal for a representative in Document 8:115 S for 2009-2010 has been promoted in order to draw attention to strengthening local autonomy in the area and planning work of municipalities. If the interest in local democracy is to be strengthened and vitalised, it is absolutely vital that local politicians gain greater power and influence over the issues of the municipality. Land issues point out to be the most conflictful and are an area in which overall authorities are constantly putting aside unanimous municipal decisions. The Planning and Building Act is the cornerstone of all municipal planning. It provides clear guidelines that politicians have to deal with. This should be sufficient to ensure good management of the municipalities' own land. In connection with the development of parts of Bjørvika in Oslo, the regulation plan for Bygdøy Nature and People's Park and the construction of a new town hall in Tønsberg, the ricksantikvar has raised objections to the plan work. This delays progress and, as a rule, has a not insignificant cost element in itself. For the Progress Party, it is important to limit the possibilities of State administration to override democratically taken local decisions. For example, the Progress Party believes that: that the national product should be much more restrictive in the exercise of its rights through protests against local democracy. Sectoral bodies are easily distorted by their scopes without considering the whole of the case – which municipal politicians always have to do. When municipal decisions are taken, preferably unanimously, these decisions also represent the inhabitants of the municipality. Objections that lead to major changes in plans and projects are constantly weakening the respect for overall sectoral authorities and the interest in local policies is suffering. State sector bodies at state level exercise their power without any involvement in political decisions. In the past, for example, the environmental protection department of the county, road and agricultural authorities shall present the cases for their policy selection. This is no longer the case. Now there are bureaucrats who consider whether or not to raise objections in cases submitted. National policy guidelines provide guidance that local politicians cannot address. Once objections have been raised, the Environmental Protection Department of the neighbouring county is set to deal with the application raised by colleagues in the neighbouring county. The outcome is in most cases like the objection. The matter can then be brought to the attention of the Ministry of the Environment. Although the Department is run by the Council of State, there are bureaucrats who make their final decisions on short and voluminous visits that cannot be taken further. The Progress Party will continue to work towards strengthening local democracy. In the evening post of 3 February there is a big look on the front page with pictures of Prime Minister Stoltenberg, knowledge minister Halvorsen and municipal minister Navarsete. The text says that now these three will have good ideas and tips from experts, entrepreneurs and the man in the street. The knowledge, experience and good ideas and advice of local politicians do not seem to be of great interest to the management of the government when these are not mentioned in a general wording. The overdrive of municipal decisions by state bodies is probably the direction the government wants it to take. Finally, I would like to address the joint motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2146	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2149	The Riksantikvaret has important tasks such as the Ministry of the Environment's Trade Directorate in the cultural memory field. This is in many cases a task which is necessary and proper for a governmental administrative body. In addition, it is important to take care of our historical cultural memories for posterity. That is where I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Kristin Sund. That is why the Right wants a strong rickshaw. But equally important is local autonomy. For the right, it is an objective that as many decisions as possible should be taken as far as possible. That is why we want to strengthen local self-government and local democracy. Ideally, we should have fewer and larger municipalities in Norway, which in this way will have a size and a resource base that allows more tasks to be transferred to municipalities. It will strengthen the interest in local democracy, but will also provide local solutions to local challenges. State overarching always poses a risk of making policy decisions that are appropriate to theory but are less appropriate in practice. Strong local democracy provides better public services and spatial plans with local anchoring and connection. Therefore, the Right has a restrictive view of the State administration’s ability to override democratically adopted local decisions. This also applies to the national antiquities product. Right considers that State environmental and land management should be reformed. There is a need for a better balance between government and local authorities, which takes better care of individuals and communities than at present. Therefore, it is our opinion that the use of the objection by the State must be limited to where it is absolutely necessary in the interests of general national interests, in other words, that the national antitrust product may use the right of objection where the area or drafts contravene provisions of law, regulation, general plan or national objectives adopted by the Storting. In reality, we see that the ricksman's product is very committed far beyond the limits I'm suggesting here. There are a number of simple examples of the overrun of local democracy in matters that must be said to be completely outside the national anti-citizen’s mandate to engage. In Oslo, we've seen more of these things lately. In addition, the Riksantik product should look more critically at what should be protected. We have examples that even 1970s buildings are peaceful, despite the fact that most will probably perceive the cultural historical value as limited. The same applies to infrastructure conservation. However, today's case is less about individual cases and more about the principle approach we are going to take to state objections in general and the role of the national Antiquities in particular. How to look at the relationship between state overarching and local self-determination is about basic social views. The right has always fought for a society built from below. It's good people who create a good society, not the society that creates good people. In this lies the core of the Right Defense for strong local democracy, based on free, responsible people's efforts and commitment. In this, our scepticism lies against the erosion of the local right of self-determination that state objections represent. For this reason, the Right wishes the mandate, mandate and role of the National Anti-Fraud Office to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2162	As the Council of State has determined in its reply to the Committee, several of the claims on which the draft representative is based are direct errors. As the directorate of cultural memory management, the role of the national antiquities is defined in particular. Planning and building law. Like all other directorates, the national antiquities product is also subject to political governance, and that is the way it should be. And then one might be unanimous or disunity in the settings that come from the department, but it's the political governance that's left over. That's the way it is in all parts of our society, in all levels. We must never get there that we push the bureaucrats in front of us when there are decisions that we don't like. In that case, the orders are not clear enough, and it is also a political responsibility. We get a chance to discuss some cultural memory policy now, and that's good, because we don't spend enough time in this committee, although we're obviously the cultural memory committee. It's important to remember that cultural memory is a unique source of insight, of identity, of experience, and it's also important nutrition. We manage the material tracks after the past on behalf of future generations. For the Center Party, the management mindset is very strong. We're going to leave society in at least the same condition as we took over. It also applies to cultural memory. It is important that our generation does not corrupt the cultural heritage, and therefore the rickshaw plays an important role. In cultural memory policy, local interests must be balanced against national interests. Therefore, the institution of opposition exists. In fact, in cultural memory policy, we also have some examples where the Central Party is pleased that the national Antiquities product intervened, and that is precisely because major and important national interests have been of interest to us. In the case settings dialog, the Progress and Right views are displayed. that the national Antiquities product has raised objections to urban development plans for Bjørvika. For me, it's actually a good example of why we need the national antiquities product. Bjørvika is an important area for history and identity throughout Norway. It's part of Norway's history, not just for the inhabitants of the municipality of Oslo. If the fjord is closed out, with the exception of a few privileges, and the middle-aged capital is embroiled and shaded, it is also a loss for the nation, after the view of the Center Party. That's why I hope that the local politicians in Oslo will take a look and take that on board, that a capital also prays with its history to Oslo as its capital and has meaning for people besides those who live and work in this municipality. There are several examples of this. I think most will be a few that without the bridge in Bergen had lost much of Norway's common history and heritage from Hansatida. Without the Reich Antivar it would have looked darker also for the Bryggen in Bergen, which is now on UNESCO's World Heritage List. There's more to it than the people in Bergen who are happy about it. The same is true of Karl Johan's street right in front of us. It was the rickishman who opposed the plans to build a hayhouse along that corridor, and it was the Center Party's Environment Minister Helga Gitmark who took the objections seriously. If not, the parade streets might have looked different than they do today. So it's usually the best thing if they make the decisions locally, and that's also what happens in most cases. The good dialogue is the best traveler. If, in cooperation with the municipalities, the national product focuses on important cultural memories, it also increases local attention about the value of these cultural memories, and then often finds a solution to the challenges. So it's important that the ricksantik product is clear about what's central and what's peripheral. In some cases it will be that the nationalist product will give away its views, for then it will be the second consideration – local politics – that weighs more heavily, and it will also be true in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2181	The excellent contributions made to the Advocate-General Eirin Kristin Sund and the Chairman of the Committee, Erling Sande, cover my view to the full. I am very surprised at what is being presented here – again from the Right, not from the Advancement Party. I'm surprised that the Right is leaning on this. It's a batch that wants to appear with a value conservative profile. I am absolutely sure that very many of the party's core voters would react strongly if they were told that the Right is leaning on a slightly populist input from the Progress Party, which also contains a number of errors. So it's not like the ricksantik product is going to have a veto right. Nor is it the case that the national Antiquities product is able to review municipal level decisions. What the national Antiquities can do is raise objections to municipal plans. And if you don't agree, which is the ideal process, then it goes to the Ministry of the Environment to decide. On an annual basis, Norway has 50 out of 2 000 spatial plans coming to the Ministry of the Environment. In some of them, we give the objector – whether it's the county, the national antiquities or others – right. In other cases, we give the municipalities right. But it is a process that balances the different considerations through dialogue, as was said by Erling Sande, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection is sometimes more stringent and sometimes milder than those who object. What makes the matter very special is that it is so obvious that this is a little bit like ‘surpomperi’ because the rickshaw has entered Bjørvika. It's something that I think a very broad majority of the city's population, including voters to the Right and the Advance Party, have greatly appreciated. A major debate has been launched, the opportunity to review these issues has been announced, think about and avoid making mistakes, in what is one of the three historical centres in Norway. Next to Bryggen in Bergen, Nidarosdomen and Erkebispegården in Trondheim, Gamlebyen/Bjørvika is a historic centre, built by Håkon 5. Magnusson and others. So it's very, very stupid to make mistakes in such an area, and the national product has given Oslo a new opportunity to avoid making mistakes. I hope they can solve it in dialogue, if not the case to the seventh and last come to the Ministry of the Environment. When invited to a wide-ranging debate on something in Norwegian society and there is a chance to take part in that debate – fortunately, after all, the mayor has been constructively involved in the debate too – one should be happy instead of responding with: Is it possible now to find measures that can keep the rickshaws of the rickshaws? Let me also remind you, for the sake of order, that here the red-green government has appointed a State Secretary in the Bondevik government to ricksantikvar, just to get the width of attitudes that you should think everyone would be earned. As others have said, if we go back in history, it's easier to point to areas where we're very sorry because important things have been lost, because we didn't do enough to take care of it than the opposite. Many Norwegian cities and agglomerations are less of cultural centers, less of historical centers, than they could have been if we had been better off keeping track of the past. So here in Oslo – for those who celebrate local democracy – the city government decided to tear down the Old Aker Church. I doubt that someone today believes that this is the right idea, but it was considered to be a right idea in the present. So if you pay tribute to municipal autonomy and you think it's going to be allowed to decide, well, it was an idea in the 1800s. There were plans for six fields of motorway around the Castle in its time – there were, of course, many objections to such an idea. We destroyed the Enerhaugen, and we could have destroyed Karl Johan. It has been tremendously important to have authorities that intervene and ask us to think again for the sake of history and cultural heritage – Bryggen in Bergen, the youth town of Ålesund. I was in Odda a month ago. There they told me that a stave church that had in its time adopted the reef, because you had no use for this old crumb. But then the attitudes change. Today it is probably not a person in Norway who wants to tear down the staves, but it was once before that. To make a long story short: I am amazed at the lack of culture and history that Willoch’s party – and for that matter a number of other formidable figures in Norwegian history – is now drawing on by supporting this proposal from the Progress Party on what must be, although it is not clear and clear, a form of wing clipping of the rickshaw, an institution that we really need to meet the new, modern Norway, but with the basis and roots of Norwegian history and tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2201	The representative's proposal has been put forward to point to the abuse of power of superior bodies in part, according to our assessments. Local politicians are getting less and less influence and decision-making rights. This applies not least to our own areas, as we said in the previous case. Public bodies are given too much power and influence, including the power of the national Antiquities. This damages the interest of local democracy and all political work in the municipalities. So my question is, will the Council of State do anything to increase the influence of local politicians, especially in dealing with land issues, on public bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2208	What is the theme here now is whether the national product is to be winged or have an opportunity to actually play the important role of taking care of history, tradition and culture in Norway in construction, planning and in many other areas. So the starting point for this case was the municipality of Oslo. There, the municipality itself, was in conflict – as far as I could see – with its own guidelines laid on many floors on the house without this being part of the planning. So the rickshaw goes in and points this out and then starts a debate, which I think, as I said, is appreciated by a dwindling majority of the city's population. That debate will be clarified by the hope that the National Antiquities and the Municipality of Oslo will agree on something that can ensure this in a proper way. If they do not agree, the matter will be brought to the Ministry of the Environment for review. Isn't this good, then, that we get this lighting of it in full public, without things happening without debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2216	Before Peter N. Myhre receives a reply, the President will draw attention to the fact that one of the lines should deal with the matter at hand. Now the state council landed this well and got the line on the right case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2219	Yeah, he's good! We have been included on a small round here now both with the committee chairman and not least with the councillor, which refers to Bryggen in Bergen, Nidarosdomen, Erkebispegården and the youth town of Ålesund. But there were probably many of us who were a little surprised when the rickshaw – a newly appointed rickshaw – threw itself into an area that was fully regulated six years ago and is now to be expanded, namely the Bjørvika. So Bjørvika is a completely flat area, and there's no population there. Since it is now the government that is responsible for all the national antiquities, in general, and especially in small terms, my question to the Council of State is: What is it in Bjørvika that it is so important that the national antiquities enter and keep?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2226	First of all, let me say that I wanted to give the various trade unions of the Ministry of the Environment a great deal of freedom to present their views – the Directorate for Nature Management, the Climate and Pollution Directorate, the National Antiquities – without taking a phone call to the Council of State to check whether he agrees with everything they do. For example, the Directorate for Nature Management has provided an outline for motor travel in land that has not been followed by the government to take one example. I believe it is important that we have strong, heavy disciplines that do what they think is right. In this respect, Bjørvika is not a historical centre, but Old Town and Bjørvika – this whole area – Oslo is one of the most important centres in Norway. It is a fantastically important area for Norwegian history, tradition and identity, and it means a lot how to see this – Akershu’s fortress, the medieval ruins – in a context. And even though Bjørvika is to a significant extent an area that was sea – if you go a hundred years back in time – you have to see this as a whole, and that's what the ricksman wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2233	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2238	When I got up this morning and was going to put on my tie, I looked into my cabinet, and there was a tie with Ole Brumm on. So I thought that today I'm going to debate with Solheim in Stortinget, and then it fits very well with "yes, both parts" – because here it's yes to gas power and yes to technology, and yes and no to wolves, and now it's yes to local self-government, but also a lot to the national product, so here it's "yes, both parts" all the way. So I'm sure it's all right. My question is, what is the value of visibility lines in Bjørvika? It probably cannot be quantified. Does it have cultural value? Does it have an environmental value? Does it have aesthetic value? Yeah, maybe. Historical value? Yeah, maybe. But it also has a cost. Is there a cost of $10 million? Do you really want to delete this item? It's worth 100 million. Do you really want to delete this item? It's worth 500 million. Do you really want to delete this item? How many hundred million dollars is it really worth? So the rapporteur said we have to afford it. Who are 'we' who can afford it? So in the case of Bjørvika and visibility lines, it's Oslo's inhabitants who have to cut on welfare or on other things because the national product believes it has a value in the hundreds of trillions class to have increased visibility lines in Bjørvika. Then you can say, how can you get to that kind of sum? You can get to that kind of sum because we're dealing with the market economy. Even the Solheim Council has to do this and wants market economy. We're dealing with the market economy in all the other areas of the municipality, but suddenly we shouldn't care about the market economy when we're talking about visibility lines and culture, because it's a little vulgar, a little bit petty. Then one has to rise above the economy. But it has a consequence. You refer to a large majority of Oslo's population -- yes, of course, I'm for it, too, but not when I'm told that it might cause us to have poorer care for the elderly, or that the schools are falling out to an even greater extent. Then I'm not for it. It's clear that I'm for it – I'm to keep everything weird, I, as long as it doesn't have any kind of consequences for me in any other areas. That's 'yes, both of them', and that's what we're talking about in this document. We want to go in and see if it is possible to look at the powers and the role of the national antitrust product today, which might need to be amended or clarified. That's the whole point of this proposal. So it could be that when the rickshaw goes in and changes the premise of the market economy, which gets a cost for the inhabitants of Oslo, he could take off his own budget. So it could be a sum, and then the government, with Solheim at the head, could say that we're assessing the work of the ricksman's war to be so valuable that we're adding 5 billion. kr, so he can protect and hold – but for 5 billion. kr per. years – without the inhabitants of Oslo or other municipalities suffering from this; priority must be given to the state budget and not to the welfare of the citizens of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2251	It is an important debate we have here today, because it will give some signals about how we imagine the antique work in Norway in the years to come, and the antique work is important. There is no need to re-examine these themes that up to several people have been involved in talking about Karl Johan's Gate in Oslo, Bryggen in Bergen and Domkirken in Trondheim. It's really different from these big national symbols in everyday life. I checked the list today. There are currently 535 peaceful objects only in Oslo itself – 535. There are no budgets to compensate for what needs to be done with these peaceful objects. So this is a crazy strategy, because there are too many conservation decisions in relation to the resources that are at the disposal of the public to do something about this. I can just do two examples. Recently, the Oslo City Council adopted a regulatory plan to build a cycle path to the Free Areas of Bygdøy, along the road of Queen Blanca, one of the most important and most widely used free areas throughout the country. So the rickshaw intervened, because he was opposed to using parts of an earth to build that bike path. It is completely incomprehensible to the city's population that you should not be given the opportunity to build a once- and-a-bike path here, perhaps Oslo's most important walking and cycling road project. Another example: The National Ethnic Building, the Cave of the Workers' Party, is at peace. There were people who were angry that the fish shop had been closed, because it had gone bankrupt, or what it was. So someone has started now to try to restore fish turnover in this legendary room at the entrance to the People's Passage, and what happens? Yes, they have to make this accessible, and then the door has to be replaced. So the ricksman said it's not about, they're not allowed to replace that door. The result is that those sitting in a wheelchair have to take a long walk through some corridors, so they can't use the main entrance from the street. There is a sad result of misguided decisions taken by the national antiquities. So we've got this stressed, this is the government's responsibility. The government doubts that the national product should not be criticised for this from this pulpit. Buildings in daily use with an ongoing need for maintenance and modernisation should not be satisfied; they should play the role to be played.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2264	It is of concern to the Council of State for the value conservatives in the Right. But I think maybe he'll leave to those who are value conservatives, to worry about our health. The last time I checked was not the Council of State among them. I must also say that it must be possible on the one hand to say that yes, it is important to protect cultural monuments, yes, the nationalist product has an important role to play, and on the other hand that it may actually be that we have to look at the mandate of the nationalist product, it may be that that mandate is a little unclear, it may be that it creates a certain unnecessary friction between the role of local self-government and the role of the nationalist product. I think it's possible to reconcile these two. We want – and I said that in my post as well – a strong national antiquities, we believe it is important to take care of cultural memories. We're going to do the same thing. At the same time, we also demand a certain kind of predictability in the role of the national antiquities product, and we believe to see now a good deal of examples that it is not that simple. It must then be allowed to point out that an assessment of the role and mandate of the national Anti-Racism product could be useful. Then the Council of State points to the debate in Bjørvika. For us, this is not about individual matters. It's about a principle approach to this. We believe that local self-government is important. As a value conservative, we mean it. We also believe that cultural memory protection is important. And we think it's possible to harmonize the two, but it might require a different approach to this with the role of the national antiquities. In Bjørvika, since the Council of State itself took it up, it is clear that it is perceived as strange when the national product comes long after the train has left, and the previous national Antiquities product had no objections, with an objection to a plan that has already been adopted. It's clear that it's going to feel special. The same is true on Bygdøy with the riding hall standing there. A single Oslo bench is a supporter of it – a unified, unanimous city government. It is clear that it is possible that the role of the National Antiquities could have been clearer here in relation to what one is trying to achieve. To conclude, the Council of State was able to provoke the representative with its contribution by beginning to talk about value conservatives and Willoch. It helps. But I think it's completely compatible, and I think it's surprising, unless the Council of State can agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2275	When I show care for what I call the value conservative right, it's because it's a right that the left-hand side, the red-green, has a lot in common with and can cooperate a lot with. The paradox is that taking care of the environment, taking care of old buildings, historically, is a conservative idea, which is now most clearly taken care of in the Norwegian society by the left. If one goes back to the original, it's clear that it was easier to get through to taking care of old buildings of conservative nobility in the United Kingdom than within the labour movement. The movement of workers stood for modernity, the right side stood to take care of, the conservative. I wish some of this could join the new Right. Now, what we're going to see is that today's Right is going to be running from C.J. Hambro's Right, Jon Lyng's Right and Kåre Willoch's Right, hoping for some kind of government alliance with the Advance Party. I'm disappointed in that. But real value conservative -- I don't have trouble using the concept of value conservative about myself once. I think it's incredibly important to take care of fundamental values at a time when the changes in society are big. I feel less kinship with the progressing party. And it is not that I doubt that the national product should not be criticised from the pulpit of the Storting. If the Reich Antiquities never did anything that was criticized from the Parliament's pulpit, the man wouldn't do his job. He/she shall be a central contributor to the Norwegian social debate. Then it'll be discussed here. It's just positive. What I don't want is him to be clipped. When the Right, which would go uphill before today to come downhill, now will start by cutting the rickshaw, then strengthening the rickshaw to have a strong rickshaw, it's not easy to understand it. It's possible to know the price of everything, but not the value of anything, is an old word. It is not possible to appreciate the visibility lines in Bjørvika, it is not possible to say exactly how much costs you have to include. If we built the Castle Park full, we would also get a lot of money for the people of Oslo. If we were to follow the old plan of road through Frogner Park and shut down Frogner Park, we would also receive great income from money for the people of Oslo for use in the care of the elderly or in school. I don't think the Progress Party believes it, but it illustrates the point that we also have to take care of important things for the city's population, even if it cost us a few dollars here and there. The party of progress has predecessors. I have quoted this before, but I would like to repeat it: when the Old Aker Church was adopted in its time by the local government in Aker, the conservative press of the city wrote that well we like the Church of Aker, well we want to keep it in claim, but not to such an extent that we use 20 spices on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2286	The time for this morning's meeting is up. The President will propose that this meeting continue until case No. 6 has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2291	I really had no plans to take the word in this matter. Both the representatives of Sande and Sund and the Council of State have made good comments on the red-greens' attitude to the rickshaw and its important role. But after the Oslo politicians of the Progress Party threw themselves into the debate, I feel I have to say something. I can basically understand that the Progress Party is irritated by the fact that the national product interferes and talks about cultural historical values disrupting market-economy calculations. But when the rickshaw enters, it is with a background in Lambda – this twelve-storey museum with cracks that will turn on the whole of Bjørvika if it is built as it has been designed. That objection has given the City Council a new opportunity for assessment, and that is an opportunity that the City Council should be pleased with. Go out and talk to people in our town. There are a lot of our people who say they don't want this. They feel that the national antiquities raise an objection on their behalf. When the Progress Party sneezes of concepts like vision lines and talks about market economy, what are we talking about? We're talking about how we take care of the ruins of what was Norway's original capital. That perspective is completely gone when the Progress Party and the Right are talking in the Chamber today. It's a shame how that legacy has been treated until the Middle Ages became a reality. Some attempts have been made, including: through the water table, to recreate what was an original watershed. Now this is behind a wall without contact with the sea and Akershu's fastening. This is about a lot more than a pretty view. When the ricksman takes this up, the ricksman does his job. It's not about protecting anything here, it's about being able to have an awareness of the city's cultural heritage when you build something that's completely new. This is also a national cultural heritage. Just look at how Trondheim, for example, manages to build an identity around the original Nidaros. I think it's a shame that the parties that run Oslo don't see it, but they react to taking power from the national antiquities because you don't like what he says. I think that is fundamentally undemocratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2302	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Size now pauses until noon. 18, and then starts with case no. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3747]] It is also where Eirin Kristin Sund, who is the rapporteur of the case, is the first speaker at the evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2337	The President recalls that a rich position has been distributed in the seats of the representatives. At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2348	The purpose of this provision, which came into force almost two years ago, was and is as follows: to ensure greater regional coordination of purchasing centre policies to strengthen existing urban and urban centres to avoid developments leading to urban sprawl and car dependence to contribute to environmentally friendly transport choices to limit greenhouse gas emissions, not least: The Regulation established that purchasing centres can only be established or extended in accordance with guidelines in approved county plans or district plans. In areas not covered by approved county plans or district sub-plans, purchasing centres of more than 3000 m2 of use will not be allowed until approved plan is available. This regulation has a duration of up to 10 years or until it is replaced by regional planning provisions under the Planning and Building Act. The national policy provision for purchasing centres shall ensure a better follow-up to the guidelines of the counties. It provides that, with legally binding effect, approved county and county plans are to be taken into account for the planning of municipalities. New building permits or framework permits may not be granted contrary to national policy provisions. The county council has been empowered to enforce the provision. The main challenge of our time is man-made climate change. If we are to solve this challenge, political decisions are required at many levels, in many areas and in many sectors. Land and transport planning is an important area for addressing climate challenges. Through active land-use planning, we set decades ahead of us the leadership of society and the transport needs that society will have in the future. Where large shopping centres are located, it is quite obvious that they are very central in this context. These included: In this context, we wanted a national policy provision for a more active policy in this area. The national policy guideline is an instrument to ensure better follow-up of national and regional objectives and guidelines for the location of major purchasing centres. The aim is to achieve a more coordinated localisation policy across municipal and county borders. This also gives greater predictability to neighbouring municipalities and builders in their planning work. President, I don't think the time is running, but I'm not going to take 5 minutes. Just so the President knows! In addition to reducing transport needs and thus climate emissions, the Regulation is an important contribution to a more sustainable and robust urban and urban development. Before the implementation of this regulation, a number of new purchasing centres were planning outside cities and agglomerations, despite the fact that this was not in line with regional plans. Our aim, on the other hand, was that larger purchasing centres should preferably be located near collective nodes and centrally in our cities, so that more people could get a shorter distance and more could travel environmentally friendly. Studies at the time the provision was planned showed that some shopping centres outside the cities had a car share of more than 95 p.p., while malls with a central location in the city could reach car shares up to 20 p.p.m. These were figures that were incompatible with the objective of reducing the use of passenger cars, which is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve our climate goals – and even more necessary when there is such great doubt about what, among other things. The right shall do so whenever they do not wish to clean gas power plants at all. We need a conscious and restrictive approach to the location of purchasing centres in order to dampen future traffic growth. With regard to the development and strengthening of existing urban and urban centres, it has often been that shopping centres located outside cities and agglomerations have been a challenge also for the centre trade and have led to reduced turnover and empty shopping facilities. It makes it very difficult to create attractive and vibrant cities and centers, which most of us just want. There are many important considerations to be taken into account and all of which demonstrate the need for the national policy guidelines for the establishment of new purchasing centres. The working party and the red-green government cannot see that these considerations have been weakened in the last two years, rather on the contrary. For this reason, we do not support the proposal under consideration here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2393	The President has confidence in the Sund representative. That's why the clock hasn't started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2396	In this case, as in the coastal zone and the predatory business, we see that the red-green government has little or no confidence in local democracy. Where a local person wishes to be unanimous in favour of a positive response to action due to changing assumptions or new opportunities, regional or central authorities do not have this knowledge and override local entrepreneurship and involvement. As an example of local involvement, the municipality of Volda, which wishes to open an installation, previously used for mineral water production, is mentioned in the Furene area. But the problem is that the plant is slightly larger than the area used by the national policy guidelines. Is it true, then, that the Furene area is a non-commercial area? No, that's where you get the TV, washing machine and iron. You can shop garden products and flowers, buy tyres for your car and buy kitchen furniture and electrical products. There's timber trade and a number of other things. What does it mean, then, that this particular area should be affected by national policy guidelines? Well, the area for which a new activity is requested is more than 3000 m2. Then it's the end of local democracy and local knowledge. In this way, general guidelines are more important than local knowledge and local democracy. In contrast to the government, the Progress Party has confidence that the inhabitants of each community are able to make decisions that will provide the best starting point for a good life for themselves and theirs. There is therefore a need to strengthen local self-government in terms of planning and area issues, and proposers believe that established bureaucratic barriers to this, such as the Purchasing Centre Regulation, must be removed. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2412	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2415	One should not have been much in contact with local politicians until one understands what is interesting in local policy. It is primarily the use of the land in your own municipality and in the place where you live. And one should look for a long time to find something that is more distant from it to appreciate the local politicians than this regulation. The comments clearly state that national policies should be used as a basis for local development and that national policies should override local decision-making. This assumes that the wit is rather unevenly distributed in this country, with a considerable amount of wit in this room – and perhaps also in the government apparatus. I'm not so sure it's like this. It is quite clear that you want to override local location requests, across what you want in municipalities and counties. Then it says in the notes that it is for the sake of ‘predictability of neighbouring municipalities’. I think that's good, but what about my own municipality? What about its predictability? I guess that's also pretty important. I have to say that in the right we have coal fidelity on the local commitment and on the local decision-making processes. We think there are sensible people locally, and I don't think it's for nothing that the Storting is largely filled with former local politicians. That's because they were fit to come here. Then I read in the letter from the Council of State to the Committee that it is almost a nobility mark for the plans and regulations that these have been drawn up in ‘cooperation between the county, regional state, municipalities and industry’. Yes, they are, because the implicated have to relate to reality as it is. And then you can't later take municipalities, businesses and other actors to income for the support of national policy guidelines, even if in their daily work they are related to what they have to deal with. I think very many local politicians around the country will agree with these views. It has also been said here that it has to do with car dependence, greenhouse gas emissions, etc., that you should not have shopping centres outside the cities. But anyone who's lived a little bit elsewhere than in this town knows that it's actually so that people also live in the country, outside the cities. I meet many – in Westfold this is particularly topical – who say that they are uncertain whether there will be less traffic by doing so. And when I hear the case rapporteur, who earlier today spoke contemptuously about rich people and crackling money notes in the beach zone, now worry about reduced turnover and empty storerooms in the cities, then this is two sides of the same thing -- there's always someone who earns, or loses, on it. First of all, you should be sure that it is also the right thing to do in climate terms. And then I don't think in general, I think in general. Then I finally want to make a visit to the Council of State. In this case too, the Right Party and the Advance Party stand together. State Council Solheim said earlier today that he was concerned about the value-conservative voters and about how it should go when the Right Party and the Advance Party come together. And he actually promised to help us with that. He would go out and talk to the voters and warn against this, for he thought they did not know the Right again. But most of the messages I get – including those that come through polls – are that most people know the Right well. I think I'd rather give the Council friendly advice that it's not so bad that opposition parties agree. I think it's worse that some government parties are holding their own seminars to exclaim their partners to main opponents in politics. I think you should be happy that the opposition parties are coming together. Not least, I think the voters are happy that you do it in local democracy issues, so people feel that they are appreciated in the job they do, even out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2432	This is one of several issues today where we are discussing local autonomy. The right-hand side likes to take some shortcuts when they talk about local self-government with big pathos. The same parties – the Right and the Advance Party – that express great concern for local democracy in this debate and in previous debates today, will, of course, lay down local self-government by coercing municipalities in a number of places in the country. The representative Erna Solberg went under the name "Jern-Erna" when she was the municipal minister, and it wasn't exactly her concern for local democracy that gave her that nickname. The right strutting of the local economy can hardly be said to be good for local democracy, unless the freedom of local politicians to choose where to cut is the goal and meaning of democracy, which many local government politicians could get the impression of in the period 2001–05. I was myself one of those who got the choice to cut here or there, and worse, every year it became with the local democratic community of Right. The Right Party and the Advance Party, which do not go off the road to selling the municipality's heirloom – as when the e-works were sold at home in my home town, Trondheim – should not teach too much about the room for action of local democracy. To outsource public tasks and create intercommunal companies that take power away from elected forums and over to more enterprise-like formations and ASs is also not something that strengthens the people's will in the municipalities. That is why, after debate, I am a little tired of seeing the right side, which itself represents a dramatic reduction in local self-government, in all its practical policies, yet have such high levels of cigarism in these debates. To characterize regional plans – all drawn up in close cooperation between the county council, which is democratically governed, the state, which is governed by us, I hope Right-wing share the view that the state is democratically governed, the municipalities, which constitute the closest democratic link for people, and the business community, which, on the right-hand side, will usually give rise to power – as a ‘central override’, as it says in the comment, makes a good debate on this issue difficult. I will remember the many celebrations of the Advance Party about the excellence of local democracy today. The next time I hear the Progress Party in a debate on nursing homes, local self-government is not so important anymore, or the next time FrPs threaten to exclude each other from the party as a result of local democracy's functioning, and also when FrPs are realising themselves and introducing property taxes and tolls. In fact, according to the Progress Party, central governance is all right in order to protect the programme of the Progress Party and the interests of the Progress Party, but not in order to protect the interests of the Community. And then the question comes up – now we have had many of the debates here today: if the Right burns so violently on these issues, why didn't they do anything when they were in government? They didn't do anything for local self-government when they were in government. They trod the local economy, they tried to force municipalities to join forces, they played in Solberg's tough image against local democracy, but there was no liberalisation of the beach zone – on the contrary, the case under Børge Brende. There were no changes to the matter we are discussing now, which concerns purchasing centres. It didn't. And no changes were made to predatory policies in the direction that the Right signals that they stand for today. Right-wing policy looks more and more like a populist election hunt, which is easy to keep up with when you sit in opposition. But the party has had the chance to do something about it, and it was a little convincing last time. What I remember about the Right's previous round of government was a very limited framework for the most important local democracy to continue, namely to ensure that the distribution of services and goods in the community is good and fair and fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2451	In the largest cities today, car traffic accounts for more than half of CO2 emissions. In recent years, many cities and agglomerations have experienced an extreme increase in car traffic, increased air pollution and poorer availability for those who do not have a car. In Bergen it was e.g. in the period 1990-2007, a growth in car traffic of more than 70 pst. So we have to recognise that we have a challenge in achieving a more sustainable urban and transport pattern. Developments have been marked by high land and energy consumption, strong growth in car traffic, increases in local air pollution and a declining share of public transport. We don't want it like that anymore. This development must be reversed. It requires an active attitude towards urbanisation, a conscious strengthening of existing centres, main structures and important collective veins. It requires the end of the unplanned deployment of car-based purchasing centres, which are partly located outside the centre areas. It requires the implementation of coordination of land and transport planning. The aim of introducing national policy decisions for the purchasing centre was to avoid further development of more urban sprawl, car use and poorer availability for those who do not have a car. As a follow-up to the previous national policy decision on temporary stoppages for shopping centres outside cities and agglomerations, state plans and district plans have been developed with guidelines for the localisation of trade and service in order to tell all states. These are plans developed through extensive cooperation between county councils, county councillors, municipalities and the local business community, which are politically anchored. The national policy decisions of the Purchasing Authority state that the establishment of the Purchasing Authority shall only take place in accordance with the politically acceptable state plans with guidelines for trade in goods and service functions. There is therefore a record bomb by the Right and the Advance Party today when, in the comments on the case, they stress that local democracy must be heard and that the direction lines are a override. They are not. The national policy guidelines for the purchasing centre only take into account the measures that are contrary to what is agreed by the local populace, and are thus in contrast to a clarification of local democracy. The guidelines shall contribute to the effective adoption of local elected representatives, and shall be followed and respected by the development interests. Here I suspect that it is primarily the development interests and not the local democracy for which the Right Party and the Progress Party are spokespersons in this matter. Because it is true that many of the establishments have been involved, often because planned urban development has lost its impact on the fight against commercial, lucrative interests. Professional development companies speculate that exemptions will be granted from the political plans, and the pressure against the municipalities is high. The centre party will be clear that it is not the commercial interests and money to control urban and urban development, but the reverse. By means of plans defined by the population of the counties and municipalities, an environmentally friendly urban and urban development should be ensured. The national policy guidelines build on this. That's why we still need these direction lines. The right hand side and the Progress Party state that they think it's a paradox that the regulation will facilitate center-close trade, while at the same time it's a goal to limit car use in center-closed strokes. However, here is the point that one can precisely secure alternative transport services and facilitate collective provision, for pedestrians and not facilitate car-based communities by spreading the trade supply. It is 17 years since the Stortinget established national policy guidelines for coordinating land and transport planning. In these, the Storting stressed that congestion in the centre area and reduction in car traffic reduces land and energy demand. This provides safer, more pleasant, and more accessible outdoor areas. In my view, the Progress Party and the Right's proposal are contrary to this national governance principle, which has been the current objectives of land and environment policy since the 1970s. In this case, the Right and Advance Party praise the establishment of car-based purchasing centres outside the centre, and write that large purchasing centres outside the big cities will act as a «price correction». Whether that is the case, the question of what is most important for the Right and the Progress Party is increasing trade competition or ensuring an environmentally friendly and sustainable urban and urban development in Norway for the succeeding generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2469	There are two major, general reasons why it is important to have the national policy guidelines that we are now discussing. One is that we want live city centers – and not only urban centres, but also urban centres. A city centre or town centre is almost always the most vibrant if there is trade there, if it is boiling and boiling, if there are many small shops, if there is a life, and it is not extinct. Unfortunately, there are a not insignificant number of Norwegian cities and towns that do not look like this, even on a Saturday morning. There's almost no life there, life is going on somewhere else. If we travel to the United States or other countries, we see a tremendous development in such a direction. There are American cities with hundreds of thousands of inhabitants where nothing is happening, not a pill mitt, in the center. I have been there and can confirm this. Everything has moved out to malls. Then the question is whether or not you want such a development of society. I am absolutely sure that the vast majority of the Nordics do not want such a development. You want live urban and urban centers. Then you have to trade there. The second reason is that we want to reduce driving. It is paradoxical that in a previous debate today, parties that talked about the importance of climate change and reduced Norwegian emissions, i.e. will not be involved in actions of great importance in this area. The shopping centres located in the centre of Norwegian cities and towns have a significant collective share. The highest is Oslo City right down here. I don't remember the number exactly, but I think there's some eighty percent collective share in Oslo City. The lowest I think is at the Hedmarktop. Where there is no sensible collective solution whatsoever, is close to zero in the collective share. And that means something. There are an incredible number of parts of our journeys that are trade trips, and that means something where the mall is. For these two reasons, having live urban and urban centres and reducing the need for driving in all the contexts of life, the direction we have here is important. Now there is no absolute prohibition on new malls, as someone gives the impression. It is only the clarification that they should be related to public transport, so that it is possible in agglomerations and centres. All states except Hedmark have made such plans. So the Fleet from the Right makes this a question of reason locally versus central. Let me illustrate this with a very good example, from a place where I think it's right-wing people in all three municipalities, at least in the management of all three municipalities, the Drammen district. The drama has produced phenomenal results in this area, among others. under the right-hand rule in the last years. They've got the revitalized center in a way that makes the evening post write about how great it is in the Drama, and that Oslo should travel to the Drama to learn. What is concern No. 1 for Drammen's Right-Rapporteur? It is the establishment of large car-based purchasing centres in Lier or Lower Eiker – two neighbouring municipalities that are right-hand-headed, at least the bourgeois side took over Lower Eiker, if I don't remember this completely wrong, at the last election, and Lier i is at least right-headed. It's not that the wit is just found in the drama, I assume, or in Lier or in the Lower Eiker. There are simply different interests between these municipalities. Mr Lier's rapporteur represents Lier's interests, Mr Eiker's rapporteur represents what is perceived as the interests of the Lower Eiker, while the Drammen rapporteur from the Right represents what is perceived as the interests of the Drammen, but interests cannot be reconciled at the same time. If you do not take an overall approach to the purchasing centre development, for example. in the Drammens region, all the laborious, beautiful work that has been done over many years, which has now turned the Drammen into one of Norway's most successful cities, can be torn away by the purchasing centre development in Right-Dominated Municipalities next door. That's this mechanism we need to think about everywhere. That's why we need this guideline. Hedmark is another example. The Swedes would make a mall on the Swedish side of the border, in a place where there are no Swedes. There are no Swedes even nearby. It's just directed towards a Norwegian audience. When we from the Ministry of the Environment contacted the Swedes to ask if this really was a good idea, there were protests from the Right team in Hedmark. But if it leads to reduced trade in Trysil, in Elverum, on Rena and perhaps as far away as to Hamar, yes, it has drastic, negative consequences on the Norwegian side and also leads to a heavy car traffic to the Swedish side just to trade, instead of keeping the trade in our cities. It is incomprehensible that the Right can see itself served by such social development. The progress party – again – I don't have so much expectations in this area, but I thought the Right could understand the difficulties with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2490	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2494	It's nice that the council likes the Drammen. He should also take a trip to the Westfold towns, which live 80 pst. by the inhabitants of the Right Municipalities, in Right-Strong Cities, with live urban centres in the vast majority of locations. It works perfectly well. I agree with the Council of State on his two main issues, on the living city center and reduced driving. If he had added local political governance, I would have been well pleased. I have an actual and practical question for him regarding the preparation of this regulation, and what lies behind this debate on driving and greenhouse gases: What studies and documentation have the Council of State and the Ministry done about what this means in general in the country, but also in the various areas? People also have to drive into cities in most places. Is there any investigation of what documents his point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2503	Yes, extensive surveys are available to demonstrate that those acting in the centre area are largely pedestrians, cyclists and public travellers. There are many studies in this area, but one study shows that 70 pst. trade in central areas is carried out in this way. We like to look at several studies, and this is something that the Transport Economics Institute or others can cover. But it is quite obvious that a pure car-based purchasing centre attracts more car traffic. And not to mention that a shopping mall on the Swedish side in a place where there is no public transport, where people have no other business whatsoever than driving there by car, leads to much more car traffic than keeping trade in Norwegian cities and towns. I like to visit the Vestfold cities. I was there yesterday, visiting my father-in-law, who lives in Right-steered Tønsberg. He himself gets to account for how pleased he is with the Right-Handling there – I won't go into that. But I notice that the fleet goes completely beyond what is my main concern, namely that in the Drammens region there is a great danger that all the positives achieved in the Drammen can be destroyed by the car-based purchasing centre in the Right-steered municipalities around.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2510	This was an interesting conversation, so I allow myself at least to say that comparing the Drama with a lot of other cities, especially in Westfold, is historically, and in relation to how it is, very difficult! But I want to change the theme. The party trap of the council Serigstad Valen said in his post here that the right will coerce municipalities. If we ignore electoral campaign rhetoric and other rhetoric that the municipalities were starving to join together – which they still really are – I would like to know if the Council of State shares the view that the Right has said they will, and where in the case we have expressed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2517	Now there's a debate about car-based purchasing centres, and then we can take the debate on municipal mergers another time. Now I've taken two clear examples of what these guidelines mean. So they mean a protection of the positive that's happened in the Drammen. It doesn't matter. So it's an attempt to put a mall at Trysil, on the Swedish side – which Right protested that we protested against – that will also pull a lot of car traffic. Instead of focusing on these practical examples of the need for these national policies, we talk about everything else. Let's go to Westfold. There has also been a proposal for a purchasing centre in the inner part of the county, where there is a relatively small population, including a purchasing centre that will be largely car-based. It was the State Road Service that raised the most important objections to some of these plans, because they said that the road network is not dimensioned for this. So this will lead us to build a new road network based on the mall, instead of putting the malls where people already live.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2526	The councils were in the mall on the other side of the border at Trysil. The interesting thing could be to hear if he has received any response from the Swedes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2531	Very familiar we have not received a response to it. It's clear that Sweden decides if they want to add a mall there. We have contacted our Swedish colleagues. I am at least very, very sure that the Swedish Minister for the Environment, who is in a centre-right government, is far, far more acknowledgmentful and positive in the questions than what is right here on the Stortinget. It turns out that it might be different even when the Right comes into government, and when it doesn't. At least the Swedish Center Council is very easy to talk to on such questions. Sweden decides what Sweden will do. But what I picked up was that when I and the Ministry of the Environment went out and wrote letters to the Swedes and asked them to pay attention to the problems this creates for Norway with their Swedish decision, they jumped right out and protested against this, instead of defending them – I believe – relatively many right-wing electors who are engaged in retail trade in Elverum, Trysil, Hamar, Åmot and what municipality it might be, and who will be under strong pressure from such a mall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2540	But then the Council of State confirms that. He gets no response from Sweden. Sweden is not going to change the policy, and we're just pushing all the trade out of Hedmark. That's what the Council of State did. You don't achieve anything. The only thing you can achieve is that the Nordics are going far beyond the border in order to be able to trade, instead of being able to trade locally in Hedmark. For Hedmark is a little special. You haven't made state plans, just because you wanted it to be a local decision. You cannot expand the mall without it being completely inside the city center. There are many estimates that, in terms of the situation as it is in Hedmark, the climate accounts are very poor for the Council of State. So I'm going to encourage him to go into the problem, figure out what's the reality, and then he'll see that the mall rule works against his purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2545	Here's a lot I don't understand. I can't understand how it could be less driving in Hedmark by whether people are shopping in Elverum, Hamar or for that part on Rudshögda, than if they're going to sit in the car and drive miles to a shopping mall on the Swedish side, in a place where there's hardly anyone living on the Swedish side, and very few on the Norwegian side. It has to be more notorious to drive a car because we do that exercise. If anything, this discussion only shows the need for us to have somewhat more overall regional policy cooperation across the Nordic region, because a decision taken by Sweden is of great importance to Norway. It's the exact same mechanism between two countries that I pointed to in the Drammen example. So we're talking about Lower Eiker or Lier, which is going to create malls that will have a big negative effect on the Drammen. Similar examples can be seen around the country. The mall is located in a municipality, but it has a large and negative impact on neighbouring municipalities. The same mechanism exists between two countries. It simply suggests that we need to have more extensive cooperation between Norway and Sweden on these kinds of issues as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2552	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2557	In the setting on page 1, at the bottom of the second column, the right and the front parts write – and I quote: ‘These members are concerned that the regulation limits the freedom of nutrition and the establishment of a business.’ My answer is: Of course – it’s kind of a joke! We will greatly limit the possibility of a land use that is urbanly unfortunate, including for trade interests that want to survive and possibly re-establish themselves in our cities. In addition, land use is environmentally unfortunate. It is also interesting that both the Progress Party and the Right’s first posts play a major role in this with over-management and not on the thematic substance of the case, namely what is a socially good localisation structure for the trade in goods. Or more importantly, how are we contributing to a good and economical sound urban development here to land? Well, as the Council of State tells us – a necessary, if not sufficient, prerequisite is precisely to facilitate good trade in our cities. And I am not surprised that the Right and Advance Party in this setting must go to Sweden to find examples that this is lucky, and not be able to get a single example from Norway. Even I have experience from Lillehammer and Gjøvik – two cities that initially chose two completely different strategies. Small hammer rates on a balanced development between shopping malls and facilitating shopping in the city, and has succeeded in creating a vibrant, exciting and economical health centre. Gjøvik chose a completely different strategy, and is there something that the Gjøvik centre has really been fighting against, it is precisely that the centre is being destroyed. It is not without reason that we at Lillehammer on appropriate and inappropriate occasions serve the following fun: What is it to be paranoid? Well, it's walking through the street – or the trade street – in Gjøvik and believing that you have someone behind you. Fortunately, Gjøvik is now doing well to save the city center, among other things. well-helped by — and there is a point here — the national policy purchasing centre determination and the development of the sub-plan. This last one is interesting, because it is not the case that municipalities and county councils do not appreciate having such regulations, on the contrary. They often find it useful to be able to play on such provisions and to contribute to such overall planning as is part of this system. And, not least, the trade in goods itself – it is our unique experience from Uppland – appreciates both participating in and designing such overall plans and, in the next round, putting in place good framework conditions for the trading of goods, not least the trading of goods in our cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2573	To the representative Serigstad Valen I would say that there is nothing wrong with local democracy even if the number of municipalities should be reduced to half. And local democracy would work as widely if the county council were laid down, as it is known that both the Right and the Advance Party are in favour. As far as local democracy is concerned, and of course also the trading class, it's not the municipalities and the public that's going to drive centers and say that there's going to be a plan economy over five and ten years, and then we're going to have so many square meters in each corner of the municipality? I can't. It surprises me that the Central Party’s representative Kjersti Toppe is in favour of a planned economy – that it should be decided that the centres should be located here – and county plans, district plans, politically recognised areas where you have to drive a car, because it is true in this country that there are perhaps only 10–15 agglomerations throughout this country that have enough collective offer to get people to act, or you have to take a taxi. Most people in this country use a car if they have it, to drive to their business centers. Why isn't IKEA in one of the center areas? Of course, it's outside, because it's nice to park there, because there you buy large packages. That's how people want it – even in the center. Politicians should facilitate the establishment of those who want to establish themselves. It's businessmen who invest the money, and if it's unlikely that they won't go bankrupt, who's losing? Yeah, they're the ones who invested their money. The center party, like the building party, should definitely go in for you to drive. Norway is big, and we need the car. The trucks are running around with a large sign behind them saying that without the car Norway stops. This is actually the case, because without the car, the private car, you don't trade what you want, and you don't get it home at a reasonable price. Taxi is expensive!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2585	This is a bit of a strange debate. I think there's a big difference between the Progress Party and the Right Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other. We in the Progress Party and in the Right have the belief that the individual can establish himself wherever you want, that you can set up an enterprise if you want to, that you can set up a shopping mall wherever you want, and that those who want to get there will be allowed to do so. Whether you drive a train, a bus, a tram or a car, it must be possible to get there. A good example of how a dense center has grown is in the Eda municipality, just like in Kongsvinger, in the Värmland state, or county, as it is called. There was a center that became smaller and smaller. It was exodus and abusing. It was actually so much fuss that even the erotic store disappeared after each time. And that tells a lot, because this was pretty close to the Norwegian border. But then there was a guy named Thon. He talked to the municipal management and said he was interested in establishing something there. The municipality said yes, they even said yes so much that they tore the school there, so that on that plot Thon would be allowed to establish himself. It's become a huge success, and they're expanding. And in that municipality, where there was disembarkation and unemployment, there is now a shortage of workers, so even the Nordics have jobs there. People travel there – people travel there from Norway, and they travel there from Sweden – and it has become a meeting place. There's cafes there, there's pharmacy there, all that's needed is there. People come running there themselves, or they get on buses. They do what they want there, and then they have a good day. That's how it's supposed to be in Norway, too. If there's someone who wants to establish something, whether it's above or below 3,000 m2, there shouldn't be anything to say to it. Of course, a lot of money is invested in such an establishment. There's money invested in buying the land, in the building, in the shops, and it's invested in people in the shops. It's just positive for the whole community. Not only is it positive for the centre, but it also grows buds around the centre, such as several cafes, several gas stations and service facilities. It's not only the center that grows, but also the possibilities around such a center. There was a little talk about what is happening on the Swedish side, at Trysil Municipality in Hedmark. It is clear that there is a reason why someone is airing the idea of setting up a new mall on the Swedish side, and that is, of course, about money. If we Northmen can be so far-sighted that we also look at the possibility of establishing something similar on the Norwegian side, we will mitigate too much of the trade leakage, and there is a lot of trade leakage here. We lose many jobs because large centres are established on the Swedish side, and something huge is being done. That sum is increased from day to day, from month to month and from quarter to quarter. Obviously, if we manage to cope with this, much has been done in terms of the jobs and the tax credits we lose. I think this is a strange debate, that there should be such a big gap between the bourgeois and the socialist governments that you cannot look at this with positive eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2601	This time it's very nice to have the experience from before you entered this hall. My background is that I have been rapporteur, and then I have been the center manager of a purchasing centre that would extend to the limit of 3000 m2. So I've been through the entire round. It was under a completely different government, where in many ways the policy was exactly the same, and there was no signal to change it then, either. I think the experience we've had is that this is also about creating predictability for the industry. I am very much in favour of the mall if it is properly established, in the right form and in the right way so that you can make public transport work and make the neighbouring municipalities cooperate. This is about competition, about jobs, and it is about competition about attractiveness. However, the vast majority of municipalities in Norway are still small. There are very few that are large, like the Drammen, and you have to be able to make all of this work. Actually, I don't see the problems. These are things that the municipalities have recorded in the regional plans. Work has been done with industry to create a framework for living conditions and leisure opportunities for people in a real way. This means that these existing framework conditions strengthen the possibility that establishment can actually be viable in the long term. It's pretty hard, whether it's Thon or someone else, to set up a mall if the competitor puts a right at the municipal border and does not compete with you. It's also about predictability for the commercial industry, knowing the market in which one has to operate, what is the reputation, and what is the customer base. In most cases, the chains are very close to who is established in a region when assessing their establishment. This means that the housing pattern and the plans of the municipalities underpin the choices made. There are a lot of processes going on. I think talking to the neighbor and agreeing that this works, whether it's Sweden or the neighbouring municipality, is actually not a stupid thing. It creates a good framework for business, and that's what they want very often. I think this is a classic example that we actually get the predictable frameworks in order to be able to run the industry in the long term, because we're establishing a good urban environment. This is about both the establishment out in the countryside, and it is about the establishment around the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2617	The Progress Party Henning Skumsvoll criticises the Center Party because a desire for a planned development – that is, a desire for planning rather than free. It is a criticism that must be borne in mind in the accounts of the Progress Party. In addition, he argues that it is built that a driver loses this planning, because there are so few buses that it has nothing to do with having shops in the local centres, one must have a car anyway. If not, taxi is the option. I agree that the car is necessary in many Norwegian districts, but the car is not a goal in itself. I found Skumsvoll pointing at a very important point, namely that there are a number of people who don't have a car and can't drive a car – older people, disabled people and others – and they're the ones who first of all would be the losers if we set up a system that leads to the big buyers establishing themselves outside the cities, at the expense of local shops in the urban centres where there is still a doctor's office, where there is a town hall, where there is an elder's office, etc. There may be a few buses in the Norwegian district, but the buses that are there are just going to the centres. Of course, it's a taxi offer, but it's a relatively expensive offer if you're going far from town to a mall and there's no local offer. So I would like to stress that this is not a debate for or against the malls and shops. There is a debate on what planning should take place in society in this area, and what guidelines should apply when planning for, for example, shops in connection with both the construction and the existing public transport services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3747]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2642	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2651	The proposal we are now discussing is about the rapid implementation of socio-economically viable climate action from Climate Change 2020 and the follow-up to the climate agreement. I would like to begin by stressing how hugely important work has been done in the field of Climate Change. It is a very comprehensive analysis, and the unique thing about it is that all the state agencies involved, the NVE, the Oil Directorate, the State Road Administration, the SSB and the Climate and Pollution Directorate, agree on the analysis. It gives us an incredibly solid starting point, an incredibly important tool to chisel out the plan to show us how to achieve the 2020 objectives. It was never the intention of a climate cure to set a kind of line, a roof, a price that defined a limit on what kind of action would or would not be implemented. Is everything to be done under the line and nothing above? It may well be that there are measures that are expensive, and that take time, which should be on the list of things we are going to do quickly, precisely because it takes time. This could be done, for example, by: is because there are measures that will lead to significant technological development, which have been debated earlier today, where there are opportunities for industrial development. Climate change is an incredibly well-managed document, an unusually well-documented analysis of the costs of different climate action. But if you were to point to one weakness, it would be that you have no analysis of the income side. It's in itself understandable. It's incredibly difficult and would quickly have worn the mark of a lot of sighting, but it's after all something that we have to bring with us. All climate policies are not necessarily expenditure. There are also industrial policy opportunities and technological development opportunities in it. The mandate of the Climate Action Task Force was to analyse the climate impact of actions. But climate action can also have other positive effects, on air pollution and on the urban environment. It can reduce our need for energy and thus save us for natural action, etc. Action in sectors covered by other instruments, such as quotas and charges, is also a very important debate in principle. So we know that it is a challenge that climate action that is profitable, not only socio-economic, but even economically profitable, is not implemented. We saw it very well when a climate cure was presented, that a not insignificant amount of action had a negative cost. 30 out of 160 were defined as socio-economically profitable. There's a lot of reasons why they don't come true. Lack of knowledge is quite obvious, but also other things. A year ago, Bellona and Siemens presented a barrier study on energy efficiency in buildings. There, this relationship between owner and tenant was pointed out as perhaps the most important barrier because no more measures had been seen that are obviously profitable there. This means that actions that would have been thought to be realised at the outset may require political focus, political action — nevertheless. It is quite natural and also necessary to spend some time going through a document that is as comprehensive and complicated as the Climate Change 2020 is. It is good for Norwegian climate policy, for climate change does not make any recommendations on what should be selected. But I get the impression that the proposers believe that we are going to have a Climate Communication in 2011, means that we are not going to launch clearly reasonable climate action before that. Of course you do. You get a chance with the budget for the harvest. We've already announced 500 million. kr to climate technology over three years, as an example. Here, there's really a little bit of disagreement. Actually, this is a little unnecessary debate, but it is quite nice to get an opportunity to make it clear that of course it is not that the government does not intend to put in place a single sensible climate action until 2013. That is also why it is proposed to attach this proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2668	First, I just want to remind the assembly that the Progress Party was not invited to participate in the negotiations on the climate agreement. That is why the Progress Party does not feel obliged by the agreement that lies there, and then it is also unnatural for us to participate in such a proposal. At the same time, as a neutral spectator, I understand why the Bondevik parties are as impatient as they are, because I perceive that they entered into a settlement with considerable seriousness and meaning, but are met with delays and abstinence. Reasonable environmental and energy measures are good. It supports the Progress Party. When climate negotiations were taking place at Stortinget, the Progress Party was first out promoting a concrete list of how we thought the Kyoto commitments should be met – a number of actions the Progress Party wanted to achieve. They were not taken into account, although part of our proposals was also part of the agreement, it turned out. Nevertheless, we regard the climate agreement as unrealistically ambitious. You've been thinking about a number, and you couldn't be sure how to achieve the goals you had. This agreement meant an increase in the emission cut-off level from 13 to 16 million. tonnes to 15-17 million. tonnes. They have never been able to predict in any way how the climate agreement could actually be a source of increased emissions reductions. That is really the problem of the conciliation partners. I just note that when it was presented, a climate cure should first have been presented before the climate agreement was concluded – then one could have had a more realistic settlement – and that, as it is now available, climate cure shows that it is both more expensive and more complicated to achieve the settlement that is at stake. Therefore, my recommendation would be that one goes away from the climate deal that is, takes a new round in the Storting, gets a broader settlement than that one had, and a more realistic measurement where one goes away from a national, patriotic approach that so much and so much absolutely is to be done in Norway, based on where one gets the most back globally for a sum of money over, for example. a 30-year period. I noticed that after the agreement, the government changed rhetoric significantly. Where the council before — almost until the election — talked about how important it was to do things in Norway, one now boasts most of all that one manages to cut emissions and save rainforests in other countries. Now it is so important that the whole world is involved in CO2 clean-up projects, not just Norway. I don't think that's negative in any way – I think it's very good that the Council of State is moving freely in a sensible direction. I just wish that it had been grounded when the Storting made its decisions a few years ago, and not that it came after. Then, in reality, a few years of rhetoric have been languished, rather than in practical politics. What I want the Council of State to confirm is the interpretation of the objectives of the climate agreement. Is it so that one should cut between 15 and 17 million. tonnes in Norway, or it is a target to cut between 15 and 17 million. tonnes in Norway? The last one gives a significantly greater degree of flexibility, and I guess that's what the government will eventually end up with. But it's good to know if the government is already at that point, or if you're still giving the impression that you're going to cut between 15 and 17 million. tonnes at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2684	There is a broad consensus in this room on how much greenhouse gas emissions Norway is going to cut at home and how much is going to cut out. That debate was resolved with the climate agreement, after the opposition contributed to a significant strengthening of the government’s climate communication. The debate should now focus on the measures to be taken to achieve the 20 pst cut targets. of Norway’s emissions at home and 10 pst. out by 2020 – while contributing to the carbon neutrality of Norway by 2030. However, there is reason to be very concerned about the pace of government and the results achieved so far. The government's policy paralysis in climate policy means that we will hardly see concrete measures at home until early 2012 or 2013. It is entirely in line with the attitude of the government towards the climate issue. There is a disappointing distance between word and action. We even see that the government is quite consistently and actively opting out of the environmentally friendly solutions, making this debate much more topical than the representative of Marthinsen. It recalls the introduction of a biodiesel car diesel tax, the special combustion tax that has led to waste convoys from the West to Sweden, in the case of access to exemptions from the landfill ban and the lack of targets and measures to promote energy efficiency – the latter perhaps was best illustrated by the ambitious energy standard in R6, the new government building. When, in addition, the government has postponed the Mongstad performance project, suspended the cleaning of Kårstø for an indefinite period of time and is struggling with the success of quota purchases through the green development mechanism, there is reason to remind the Minister for the Environment that our descendants will not judge us on our willingness to promise, but on our ability to deliver. That job must start now. We recognise that there will be difficult balances in the debate on what action to take. At the same time, we believe that there will be broad agreement to implement many of the socially profitable measures identified in the Climate Action Plan. The potential is great. If we take measures with a price equal to the expected future allowance price, the potential is 6 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. Thus, profitable and cheap climate action together represents about half of the national emission reductions necessary to meet the climate agreement. These include measures ranging from increased collective provision in six cities, main road networks for bicycles, eco-bicycling, efficiency of passenger cars, phase-in of gas ferries and shore-stream for regular ferries, energy management and increased use of bioenergy in industry, transition from fossil energy to other energy carriers in residential and industrial buildings, optimised fertiliser use in agriculture and increased use of fertilisers in forestry, to mention something. In the view of the right, it is beyond doubt that the bulk of the economic and cheap measures identified in the Climate Action 2020 programme will have to be implemented if Norway is to be able to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. There's no reason not to do today what you have to do tomorrow anyway – especially when the prerequisite to succeed with our 2020 targets is to get started as quickly as possible. If we follow the government's schedule, I'm afraid it will be wishful thinking to fulfill the goal of cutting 20 pst. at home by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2710	The proposers are tempted to produce it in such a way that the government's climate policy is awaited until the new climate communication is presented in 2011. It is by no means such that the government rejects the rapid implementation of socio-economic and economic climate action. When it is claimed by the Right and Christian People's Party, it is against better knowledge. Today we have debated a number of climate-related issues in this Chamber. Here, both expensive and long-term, inexpensive and rapid responses have been lifted from this pulpit, both from the opposition and the position. We've been through everything from tools for developing climate-friendly technology to focusing on energy efficiency improvements in municipalities, to mention something. Climate change shows us that it is possible to achieve Norway’s target of a reduction of 15-17 million. tonnes by 2020, but action is required. The batch of progress shows touching concern for the climate by being involved and positive in prioritising cost-effective measures to cut CO2 emissions. However, our path is quickly separated, when the Progress Party will reinterpret the climate agreement so that the sketched cut-off potential is no longer perceived as a mandatory cut-off, but that one should instead set off a fixed money pot and see how much climate one gets for it. Then your divorce is definitely a fact. It is not better that the Progress Party has not understood that the climate requires not only long-term cuts, but also rapid and substantial cuts to reduce the fever. During the ongoing climate negotiations in Bonn, the United States has refused to participate in a discussion on the emissions targets for the rich countries. It got the American environmental movement to point out the United States as 'The fossils of the day', because their approaches prevent the progress of the negotiations. It is not a sign of honor. The government's climate work is two-sided, we both have to get emissions down in Norway, and we're going to be a driver internationally. In the Progress Party we have a secret candidate for the title "The fossils of the day", and when the Progress Party showed face in the setting, we got a good reminder why they didn't join the climate agreement – in case someone needs it. Even if some low-hanging fruits can also pick fast, it's just as full that we shouldn't forget the holistic perspective. Climate 2020 is a good and solid work. However, because the mandate was limited to looking at emissions in Norway, it is we politicians who are responsible for selecting the measures that are most effective in the long term without having negative consequences in other sectors and policies. Let me give you an example: climate is a major investment in the introduction of biofuels to be one of the most effective measures. On the other hand, the report does not say what consequences and what emissions it can lead to when the biofuel is to be produced elsewhere on the globe – and what consequences it can have for the world’s food production, for example. The climate doesn't care much about where emissions come from. So if biofuels become a priority solution, it's absolutely necessary that we know that it's produced in a viable way. Another example is the level of fees and district policies, to name it. If a general increase in the fuel charge is made, there may be considerable consequences for areas in the country where there is no alternative to private cars. So when these measures are selected, the impact of them on daily life and business throughout the country has to be assessed, so that this is taken care of. The government has a click on the work of the climate. The climate agreement is far on the road. Nevertheless, we have reason to be impatient. We need to focus on emission reductions when adopting fiscal policies. We need to focus on the conversion from fossil to renewable energy, on the production of more renewable energy, on energy efficiency improvement and on long-term processes related to new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2732	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has given us a rigorous analysis of the state of the earth. Our planet has a fever. The Climate Panel has also given us some suggestions as to where we should be when, if the temperature should not exceed 2 degrees. To keep me a little bit closer to the disease picture: if you are sick for a long time, you seek help, and you start treatment. It is almost three years ago, 22 June 2007, that the government presented its climate report after almost two years of work. In January 2008, the climate agreement was concluded, where we strengthened the government's climate goal through the work of the opposition, by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Then came the Climatology in March of this year. Now we have ten years in view of the cut that's going to happen between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The Government parties will today vote against the proposal to launch the socio-economic measures and measures that are cheaper than the expected future quota price, as Climate Change put it in March this year. That is what the proposal is all about. To me, it is a little alarming and surprising, because I consider the politicians who run the Ministry of the Environment to be willful politicians, strong politicians and politicians who want to do something. Minister for the Environment Erik Solheim himself said on the day he received the report: ‘This is a quantum leap forward in climate policy here to countries, and the best research basis ever done worldwide.’ This was claimed by a committed Erik Solheim when he accepted the report, according to the NRK. Yes, the Council of State is engaged, and that's a little bit of what we wanted to do in the work here in Stortinget. But instead, the government has entangled itself in a series of arguments that one must see the whole. When I was young and promising, I was in KrFU. We had a slogan that said, 'What are you doing today tomorrow?' For me, this debate is a little bit about it. What am I doing today to create a better tomorrow? Then I believe that we should have taken the simplest, the lowest, the lowest. Three million. Tons are socio-economically profitable, says Climate Change. Three million. Ton can get away at a price less than 350 kroner per tonne, which we think is the future allowance price. Then we've almost reached half of the goal set by the climate comrades in 2008, and I don't think we're going to get to the goal if we don't also take these low-hanging fruits. For the Christian People's Party, this debate is also about being involved in climate change. I think that if we're going to get more with us in climate change, we politicians have to show that we take responsibility for getting people to keep sorting garbage, to get more people to drive public transport – then we don't have to go in the wrong direction about biodiesel – and we don't have to make it worse about small power, but we have to go right. In Rogaland's newspaper, my climate comrades Erling Sande, Eirin Sund and Snorre Serigstad Valen had a chronicle on 19 February. They write: ‘Climate 2020 provides politicians with a menu of options for how to cut. Some of the proposals will be both expensive and radical. Others may be cheap and agreeable.’ It is precisely these proposals, these cheap proposals, that we could easily agree on. That's what we thought we should now get to grips with in order to move on this way. This is not the case, as the rapporteur is trying to suggest, that we should set a line in terms of costs, because expensive measures must be taken, and they may have to be implemented quickly. But now we from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right hope that we could agree on the cheap and the socially profitable measures, and start there, because then it becomes more credible. We had also helped State Council Erik Solheim, who says: ‘We need to implement the cheapest, simplest and most cost-effective measures first. It's pure reason." We in the Left, Right and Christian People's Party are sensible politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2766	I can sign that the representative Hemdal is very sensible to read the chronicles written by the undersigned, the representative Sund and the representative Sande, and quoting these chronicles gives her articles a good form. I recommend her to continue with that. Not many years ago, it was less sensible politicians. Then the Progress Party believed that climate change was something SV had invented to get votes in election campaigns. It's an attitude we're still seeing traces of in that big crowd. But overall, there was little willingness to implement any climate action at all. Just realizing that we had a climate problem was very challenging to get an impact on Norwegian policy. Only a little in this millennium did we get something similar to an overall view of the importance of cutting greenhouse gas emissions here in Norway. But I'll be in doubt. The show we got earlier today, when the Right Gas Power Policy went into disintegration, could cause one to stumble. The will for climate action is in any case present, and I perceive that it is present among all the big business parties – almost, at least. The opposition believes in between that they plague us in SV when they demand more climate action. I can cancel that once and for all. For many years SV was alone to press for climate policy. That opposition has begun to adopt our impatience is a very good sign, and it makes us all better. I encourage the opposition to keep doing that. One of the really great successes of the environmental movement has been the recognition that climate action is not self-pipping, as some representatives call it, and is not painful. That's for two reasons, first of all because many measures give direct gains right away. Energy saving in industry and households, for example, significantly reduced energy costs. More appropriate use of surplus fertilisers provides more energy, climate benefits and can eliminate local pollution problems. You can run a lot of examples like this, etc. etc. Secondly, it is almost always cheaper to implement climate as early as practicable than to wait to do so. The alternative, namely the cost of having to adapt to very extensive climate change, will be much, much higher, and there will also be much greater, negative impacts on earth's population. In such a light, almost all climate measures, no matter how much they may now cost, will fall within the concept of ‘social economy’ by the proposers. It will always be socio-economically profitable to implement cut-offs in greenhouse gas emissions. Many business-efficient measures are not being implemented, we know, although it will almost immediately be an economic gain to pick it up. We have to work more to figure out why, but we have some explanations. Industry, for example, has an energy efficiency potential that can be as high as 10 TWh. Then our job will be to find tools that can trigger it. The same applies to households. We have dramatically increased support for ENU via Enova, and yet we have a lot to go on. One reason might be that something does not necessarily pay off in the long term. One must also have the liquidity to take the investment there and then. Many households do not. Here we should take a closer look at, for example. White certificates, which I like to talk about in any big debate when I have the opportunity, perhaps by model from the United Kingdom, where we were in the committee on the subject of visits to the Ministry of Energy. It's a system that also has a social equalization effect. This is also how we can go through most sectors. The potential is great. Much of the way has been worked out, but at the same time we should be sure that the measures we are implementing actually work and give the desired effect. Climate action delivered its report this year, and I think it is important to have a good and thorough consultation, although I am also very pleased with the final treatment. I do. Finally, it is illustrative – I have to go to the right of this post as well – that the representative Astrup, in his usual list of maladministration, mentioned one case or two in which the government delivered, and before the opposition's proposal was completed in Stortinget, namely the burning fee, and one case the representative Astrup himself cancelled today, namely the requirement to clean up gas power, which Right in a very confusing way tried to defend for a few debates since.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2785	Today’s Storting will probably make an important contribution to a more offensive follow-up to climate policy by the red-green parties. It has to be a cross of thought for the representatives of the SV and the Center Party – parties that I perceive have a genuine commitment to the environment. When it became known that the climate notification, which was originally to be submitted to the Stortinge this year, is being postponed until the autumn of 2011, the Minister for the Environment stressed on a number of occasions that this did not necessarily delay important measures to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement on reductions. This should be brought back in the context of the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. Well, as a member of the Finance Committee, I am following this work very closely, and I must say with my heart that it is difficult to find points of light in the government's budget when it comes to the climate area. The main problem with the follow-up to climate policy is that it is organised by the government in such a way that where there is money for action out there are no good projects, while where the projects are in line at home, there is no money. A good example is the government’s arrangement for the purchase of allowances abroad. A billion for this purpose is granted annually, but the money is not used. It is obvious that government’s appropriations for the purchase of allowances abroad are part of a strategy for greening the annual government budgets. There is a great deal of resources to sell out the budget profile as climate-friendly, in the light of the allocations for the purchase of allowances, while the government accounts, which show how little is actually used, pay little attention. This exercise is repeated year after year. At the same time, we see a number of good, socio-economic and cost-effective climate action at home, which lacks the necessary will and funding from government teams to be realised. There have been several people here today. The current proposal for a document is a well-founded proposal to take action quickly, which is socially sensible or which would in any case have to be realised as a result of an expected rise in carbon price. Today's vote on this proposal will characterise as an unusually remote attitude in climate policy from the red-green majority, and yet another example of the bourgeois and centre-oriented parties that are responsible for the initiative in climate policy, as we also experienced in the negotiations on climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2796	The objective of the climate agreement to reduce Norwegian emissions by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 is an ambitious target that can only be achieved on the basis of significant political will to reduce in almost all areas of society. But when you think about how you're going to do it, I think we're going to start with a basic starting point, and I'm going to take that from the world of aid, where there's a principle that we're trying to follow, and that's: 'Do no harm', which translates to Norwegian means, 'Do no harm.' If you want to reduce Norwegian emissions, at least we don't have to start by increasing them. Here today we have seen two significant proposals from the right to increase Norwegian emissions first, and then to cut them afterwards. One is the proposal for gas power stations without cleaning, and the other is to reduce the importance of the purchasing centre regulation, thereby increasing traffic. And let me mention the third thing that's going on right now: the right national meeting decided to call on the government immediately to launch the impact assessment of oil drilling in the Lofoten and the West Pole, on which we're going to have a hearing conference tomorrow. The right has historically been a party that thought that Norway should not become so dependent on oil, but at every crossroad where it is possible to demand that Norway become more dependent on oil, it is. And it is clear that this is done in addition to everything else that is proposed, we are starting to work to reduce Norwegian climate emissions in real uphill – first we are increasing them in a series of areas, and then we are going to work to bring them down. I now record in the debate that there is a broad dissension about what the government is doing internationally in the field of climate change. I'm glad to hear that, because getting praise from the opposition is so rare for the sitting government that when we get it, we have to believe that it's really genuine. The government is doing a lot in the climate field. We get a lot of praise internationally in the climate field, for example. from the right-hand conservative party traps in the United Kingdom, which arrived here a week ago, and was full of praise for what Norway is doing internationally in the field of climate change. They talked about Norway's strongly leading role in this area, and how they could be inspired and taught by us, but also, of course, have dialogue about good things that they do. Then there are questions about what we can do more in Norway as well as climate change. So it's going to be next year's climate cure, and it's going to be a big picture. So it's not the way it makes sense here, it's not doing anything. Very much done. We have carried out the climate agreement essentially. Details may be disputed in it, but in general, the climate agreement has been implemented point by point. The quota system, which is the base wall of any climate regime, is in place. Significant efforts are being made in the field of climate research. The amounts of Enova have tripled. I'm constantly struggling to repeat this in relation to what it was like under the Bondevik administration, but it's a dramatic increase in that area. Even when it comes to the things that are specifically sought here, namely the fast, cost-effective measures, it does a lot, but it can do more. Snorre Serigstad Valen was involved in the burning fee. Thus, a levy was introduced to achieve greater material recovery in waste policy, but when it became apparent that it had unfortunate climate policy and also competitive aspects for Norwegian industry, it is facilitated, and it may hopefully be important to reduce some transport in that area. So the opposition requires environmental technology, and it requires it today. Yes, it requires a few weeks or months after the government has presented this and said that we should do this. We are going to launch a major environmental technology programme in the context of the State budget. It is absolutely right to open doors – but there is something done. Then we came up with new building rules from 1 June – also one of the low-hanging fruits – where there will be no opportunity to install new oil boilers. We will also continuously produce different such measures in the many areas proposed here. Finally, let me say that one of the problems we face in terms of the simple and cheap measures is that in a good number of areas, measures that are not directly market-economy, are immediately put into effect economically by market players. You can ask why that happens. I think the answer is that there are also other obstacles than the purely economic ones. It's people's awareness of the possibilities, it's as simple as that I live in my house, and there's considerable other problems associated with introducing more sensible energy measures at home than the purely cost-effective ones. There may be some aspects that are pointed out by several people here, namely the relationship between the tenant and the owner of a dwelling. So there is a series of such structural things in society that we have to attack if we are to implement even those measures that are immediately market-efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2822	Today we've been tuned to the ears of the red-green parties that when the government parts build a gas power plant, that's good. If the opposition proposes a gas power plant, it is bad. Similarly, we know that the government would like to send state councils and get with the royal family to open a gas power plant owned by Norwegian operators abroad. But if you want to build the same thing in Norway, nobody does. And then you shut up too, because then you're a climate bubble. If the government can help developing developing countries to get oil companies going, that's good. If you can start oil activities far from the mainland of Norway, for example: in the grey zone towards Russia or Jan Mayen, that's good. But if the Progress Party and the Right want to have oil activities outside the Western Sea, it is suddenly wrong for the climate. Is it so that CO2 emissions are better the further away from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2832	Let me focus on one after the long harange of examples to get this clearly in place: Norway does not help any country to start oil operations, but a number of countries want, for the same reason that we do, to exploit the resources they have on the seabed. I assume that neither Solvik-Olsen nor I think that we can prevent Ghana, Nigeria or Angola from doing so. A number of countries want it. Norway then comes in and helps, so that this can be as environmentally sound as possible, that this money as much as it can be done can benefit the population, that it is as corruptable a system as possible – that is to say, contribute to the many experiences we have in making oil companies here, which are among the most environmentally friendly in the world. But it is an enterprise that we must nevertheless gradually move into more renewable and sustainable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2837	The representative Sande took up biofuels. We know that climate change recommends biofuels as one of the most important measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. The Government has on several occasions announced that it wishes to impose a similar car diesel tax on biofuels other than biodiesel. Then we're talking about biogas, which is very sustainable, based on food waste and sewage. Bioethanol may be produced from residues from the wood industry in Norway. Is the government willing to reconsider that position, in the light of the great climate challenge we are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2846	I call for a more sober and sensible debate in Stortinget on the advantages and disadvantages of biofuels. To illustrate the point of that, since the leader of the Christian People's Party came in here – I don't think it's more than a year since Prime Minister Stoltenberg received a letter from the leader of the Christian People's Party saying that we shouldn't be using biofuels at all in Norway, because it would be taking food out of the mouth of hungry children. I don't buy that argument, but it's also one of the many issues in the necessary ethical assessment of biofuels. Now we are in close consultation with the EU to help clarify what sustainable biofuels are and what they are not. I'm a contemplative fan of sustainable biofuels, but I think we should be very careful to include all sorts of biofuels. It is also biofuels that can have purely negative effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2853	First of all, I would like to address the proposal that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have in the vote. So a little comment on the previous reply from the Council of State: it's probably that neither the Socialist Left Party nor the Christian People's Party will take the food from hungry children and put it on the mind -- that's what I think is a policy and a vision that we both share. Let's be clear, so we can park it once and for all. So move on to what we're discussing now. Something is done, but more can be done, said the Council of State in its statement. At this point, we are at the heart of climate change 2020, 160 measures. 30 of the measures have a price tag that allows us to achieve half of the target agreed by climate camaraderie in January 2008. Yes, more can be done. We have little time in relation to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Why can't we start now, or at least in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2862	Because we've started! We're on it. I mentioned from the pulpit several of the measures we have taken. But there's nothing more foreign to me than to say that we're doing enough, that we can't do more. I want to assess every one of the concrete proposals to look at what we can do now, and what must wait and be part of the broader assessment that lies in the climate crisis. Simple measures which do not have significant consequences in other areas and which do not create major difficulties for industries, businesses or what they may be, should, of course, be implemented as quickly as possible. Example of this is the ban on oil boilers from 1 June and other construction regulations, which will contribute constructively in this area. I believe that many of the measures we can take to reduce traffic at municipal level are against the Right and the Advance Party in almost all the municipalities. However, the introduction of a rush-time charge and much else that will reduce car traffic locally is something that we can start immediately. That's a lot different too. I'd like to join in and evaluate each and every one of them. So I fully agree, in principle, that this is urgent and that we have not come far enough, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2867	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2870	As we both know, and as I was inside my post, you don't get to spend all the quota money that's set aside abroad. The left has suggested several times that the allowances not spent can be used for major investments in Norway. We have e.g. the proposal to increase rail investment. What does the Council of State think of that proposal from the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2875	I regret to inform you that I think this is a very bad proposal, because among the things developing countries require most in the climate negotiations, major transfers from the rich to the poorest countries are. It's theme number. One, two, three. The main theme when climate negotiators sit in Bonn just these days is that they want larger transfers. The green development mechanism, in which I very much agree with the representative Tende, is very far from being perfect. It's a big problem. The Norwegian payments have gone too slowly. We're struggling to get good enough UN-approved projects. But this is one of the real mechanisms that are built up for the transfer of funds from the rich to the poor part of the world. If we were to take money from there to spend at home, it is possible that it would score short-term points in Norway, but it would be a direct measure to reduce the confidence between the poor and the rich part of the world. The poor want transfers of money from the rich more than anything else in the climate negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2882	In connection with my previous question, we were confirmed that Norwegian capital is used to facilitate oil activities in poor countries. The Council of State did not comment that Norway contributes a great deal of capital to the construction of gas power plants in other countries, so it is cruel to do so in Norway. The government boasts in its rhetoric that they have an offensive oil policy. Up to SV are included in the comments in the committee’s opinion that one should maintain the level in Norway. But what I'm pointing out is the hypocrisy -- the difference between what the government says about other parties, and what it actually does for itself. The last is that Norway, through the World Bank, is involved in financing a coal-fired power plant in South Africa, while maintaining coal-fired mining at Svalbard. Will the Council of State in any way contribute to Norway cutting the coal industry if it goes beyond the climate, or does he think it is a sensible policy to maintain coal mining as long as it is managed by the red-green?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2889	With all due respect: the Progress Party should first define its own position in climate policy and then, on the basis of it, decide how to attack others. In the debate up to now, we have almost got the impression that the Progress Party, at least this is approximate, accepted the objectives of the climate agreement. They were not invited in, but in general they were made up of the impression that there was something they could stand for. But then we try to rake with the fact that we are trying to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. There are two important reasons to do that: one is that if we don't, we have no confidence in discussing South Africa or Ghana or any other country; if we don't do anything at home, no one has faith in what we want to do out there. The second is that we have technology developments; it is the rich, advanced developed countries that are developing the new technology. Therefore, we need to do all these measures at home, even though it is right to achieve much greater and more cost-effective reductions by doing so abroad instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2900	The President responds to such a strong concept as ‘hypocrisy’ and hopes that it does not happen again in the Chamber. The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2907	Back to biofuels; I'm not completely done with it. I share the Council's view on sustainability indicators. It's absolutely very important. At the same time, it must be quite clear that biogas produced from Norwegian sewers and Norwegian households’ food waste is fairly sustainable, also in the eyes of the Council of State. It must be quite clear that waste from the Norwegian timber industry in Eastfold, on which Norwegian buses operate in Oslo, is also quite sustainable. And when the government has announced that it wants to introduce a car diesel tax also on this type of fuel – and that is also true for electricity, I remember it – it is in its place to ask if it is compatible with the assessment that was made in the Climate Change Programme. I think the Council of State should be able to answer that question. It is possible here to differentiate between just sustainable and non-sustainable biofuels. Then I want to challenge the Council of State for one thing: the Prime Minister said in this Chamber to the question of why the climate communication was being postponed, that it was at risk pending the international climate negotiations in Mexico. My view of this is that the cuts we're going to do here at home must be completely independent of the results we may or may not achieve in Mexico. I therefore ask the Council of State whether he agrees with the analysis that the Prime Minister has, and whether that means that if we fail in Mexico, there will be further delays in the Norwegian climate communication, which is about emissions at home. So it has also been said that the climate agreement is met point by point. Then I guess it's just leaning back, and the emissions will go down 15-17 million. tonnes by 2020. But my understanding is that we have to do far more than the little government until now has done. And in that work, at least this party appreciates whether we can also be included, and that you don't wait until 2011. So at the burn-in fee. It was mentioned by the Council of State, and also by the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, that the government had actually done something about it. Yeah, that's right. But we proposed to remove it already in the 2010 state budget. In the meantime, there have been significant contracts to Sweden because of the government's insidiousness. This means that for many years to come you will have garbage convoys going from the West and down to Skåne to burn the garbage there. I believe that this is very unfortunate for Norwegian climate policy and could have been avoided if the government had reacted faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2920	I will leave to the finance minister to comment on future tax policy in Norway, but I can confirm what Astrup says, that it was fascinating to participate in the opening of this biogas plant in Oslo. The idea that my successors run the 37-bus 50 meters, like that, from the government quarter up to the Deichman library, is fascinating. If you add the women and the kids, you get almost up to the Catholic Church, and if Astrup and Solvik-Olsen are also trotting, the 37-bus comes all the way up to St. Hanshaugen! I think that's a way that people can understand the significance of biogas plants. In addition, if food waste is included in this, there is a high potential for sensible climate policies. We still need, and I am glad that Astrup agreed with that, the EU sustainability criteria. I'm afraid they're getting too weak. I think it is very important that we get clear sustainability criteria that ensure that biofuels in the European and thus Norwegian markets come from rainforest destruction, or come from measures where you have about the same input factors; you use so much fertilizer, energy, irrigation, etc. to produce the biofuel that it is closest to a zero-sum game, the biofuel coming in. No one can earn it, and we should be vigilant so that we get good enough sustainability rules. We will also certainly have a problem that I do not have a response to today, but which needs to be discussed in the context of the climate change crisis, and that is the phenomenon that the greatest single measure proposed by the Climate Action proposes for reduced emissions is a major import of biofuels into Norway. There will be a positive element in the Norwegian greenhouse gas accounts, but unless you have good, clear sustainability criteria, it will have to be compensated that there is a corresponding increase in emissions elsewhere. It's the equivalent of clean energy, so we could theoretically get emission reductions by taking them in other countries, but not getting it in Norway because we're using hydropower. This is the opposite logic, and we have to think about how we're dealing with it. I mentioned the climate agreement and the fulfillment of it as an example that the government is doing a lot. The climate agreement is largely met, as I mentioned. There are some details that can be disputed, but basically it is met, and we should stop the discussion about it. However, the climate agreement is not enough to achieve the goal set by the Stortinget in the climate agreement; there are not enough instruments in the climate agreement to achieve the Stortinget goal of between 15 and 17 million. tonnes. Therefore, climate change is coming, in order to present new and stronger instruments, but this debate will be held next year. Let me just finish by saying that today's debate has shown that in a series of important matters, the Right has unfortunately now separated layers with the government parties and the centre parties and allied themselves with the Progress Party. It clarifies the political debate, but I think it is a pity that in five major environmental issues we now see an alliance between the Right and the Advance Party, against the government parties and the central parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3748]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e2951	On 20 April the oil rig «Deepwater Horizon» exploded and sank in the Gulf of Mexico. The rig was operated by BP and was in full operation drilling an oil well at 1,544 meters deep on the Macondo field in the Gulf of Mexico. The rigging explosion claimed eleven lives and became the beginning of an oil disaster world has not seen its way to – and has not yet seen the outcome. The first time after the accident, BP informed me that the well leaked approximately. 5,000 barrels of oil a day. The estimates turned out to be too low, and BP was accused early of trying to inflate the magnitude of the disaster. The latest updated data indicate that the leakage rate is three to four times higher. Daily it leaks 15 000 to 20000 barrels of oil straight into the sea, or nearly 3 million. liters. What we've witnessed to this page is a tragic demonstration of almost total powerlessness on the part of the actors. I've traveled this interpellation because we also have to draw lessons from what's happening in the Gulf of Mexico. BP has done so far several attempts to stop the oil leak. The company has tried to close the safety valve, lower a so-called ‘top hat’ above the point of release to capture the oil, kill the well with oil sludge and eventually cut the riser tube and connect to the pipe outlet. Yesterday evening the first messages came that one might have succeeded in stopping a part of the discharge. The main measures taken are drilling of two relief wells that will release pressure and control the well. The drilling started on May 2 and 16, but the operation takes from three to six months. If the current state of play — or other measures — fails, emissions can continue until August–September. In retrospect, BP has acknowledged that the company was not prepared for oil leaks on deep water. BP Chief Tony Hayward recently said the following to the Financial Times newspaper: there's no doubt that we didn't have the tools you need for such an action. No one today is able to predict the long-term consequences of emissions from the accident. The oil silage is being cleaned for full length along the beaches and wetlands of the affected states. A research centre published Thursday last week data simulations showing that the oil can round the southern tip of Florida and frame the beaches along the west coast of the Land. Then the oil can spread to the entire east coast of the United States and the Atlantic within a few months. A thin layer of oil and balls with oil washed on Friday on the white beaches of Pensacola, the furthest west of Florida. At least 200 km of Louisiana's vulnerable coastline has already been severely hit, and more and more birds and animals are being found in the helpless state of the sea or swamps. In particular, 15 psts are caught in the Gulf. of the United States of America’s seafood production. The oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico is now called Obama’s ‘Katrina’. The political game, and not least the disclaimer of responsibility of the responsible companies and the attempt to blame each other, has been a sad sight. During a hearing at the United States Congress on 11 May, the heads of BP, Transocean and Halliburton blamed the accident on each other. The US authorities have placed the responsibility with the operator BP and have sent a bill of 69 million. US dollars to BP to cover the expenditure that the government has so far incurred. BP has received a deadline of 1 July to pay. President Obama has taken criticism to be late on the track, especially in relation to oil protection and cleaning. Towards the end of May, the President came with a strong criticism of the bureaucrats in the Minerals Management Service, who are responsible for licensing and controlling the oil companies. The president announced a large-scale cleanup in the administration. He has also imposed a temporary ban on deep water exploration until 2011. The moratorium may include: impact on Statoil, which holds 448 licences in the Gulf of Mexico. Most of these licenses are on deep water. Statoil is already drilling at 2,000 meters deep. The oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico is a strong warning of the risks associated with oil extraction under the seabed. 70 pst. the surface of the earth is covered by sea and sea, and discharges spread rapidly with the ocean currents over large areas. Even the biggest technology optimists have got something to think about after the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Those who fight for a quick opening for oil exploration in our most vulnerable coastal spawning grounds for fish have a tough job ahead of them after what has happened in the Gulf of Mexico over the past six weeks. The disaster is also a powerful source of oil nation Norway, which has been producing oil on the continental shelf for over 30 years. Many suggest that Norway has come further than the United States in terms of its management and control of oil activity and safety requirements. When the United States is splitting up Minerals Management Service and tightening its grip on the oil industry, they see among other things. to Norway and want to learn from how we have chosen to organise our business. There's reason to be proud of it. Norwegian oil history is a unique success story. But the impotence we've seen in the last few weeks tells us with all manner of clarity that we're not invulnerable. Only a major oil disaster is needed to change this picture. Most of us remember the Bravo blast and the Alexander Kielland accident in the early phase of Norwegian oil history. Later, too, it has been close on several occasions. In parallel with the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, and in the shadow of the attention, the Gullfak C platform was evacuated on 19 May following a gas vent hazard caused by a pressure change in a well. It took Statoil a week to get control of the pressure situation in the well. This is the third case of serious incidents of less than six months at the Gullfak C platform. All the episodes have happened in the same well. Last case was little Christmas Eve. That episode was characterised by the Petroleum Monitoring Authority as the most serious incident on Norwegian pedestal in 2009. The last episode is called more serious. Petroleum activity on Norwegian base is changing. The simple wells have already been drilled. What remains are harder wells, many of them on deep water. The desire for increased extraction efficiency also challenges safety. With the exception of the Worm Lange, the deepest fields on the Norwegian base are less than 400 metres deep. In the years ahead, oil companies are going much deeper in Norwegian waters. Shell is currently drilling at 1,300 metres deep on the Gro field outside the Helgeland coast. Statoil has made findings on the Luva field west of the Sandness Lake that lies about as deep. Drilling on deep water makes greater demands both on drilling technology and on standby in case something should go wrong. Development of new technologies is more important than ever, but unfortunately, technological development does not have the same pressure as before. According to Technische Ukeblad nr. 20 for this year there have been several years since it was launched a pilot on a Norwegian base. This concerns both the Oil Directorate and the Petroleum Authority. The bear Breed in the directorate states the following to the leaf: ‘We are concerned that it has been a long time since pilot projects were carried out. OD believes that the industry needs to invest more in new technologies that can increase extraction and improve safety.’ A type of drilling technology that is widely researched and which increases safety is so-called pressure-balanced drilling. For the time being, it has been used on a Norwegian base to a small extent. The environmental movement, on its part, has also called for a deep water drilling stop in Norway until the causes of the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico have been fully investigated. According to Dagens Näringsliv, oil professor Øystein Noreng at Handelshöchskolan BI also supports such a claim. I do not want for my part to conclude on such a question. However, I expect the professional authorities to assess this carefully. In the evening post of 3 June, the Minister of Labour rejected the question of drilling stop and indicated that the Petroleum Authority has made a concrete assessment of the Gro drilling and found that there is no basis for drawing a similar conclusion in Norway as in the United States. On the same day that the Minister was out with this message in the evening post, the Petroleum Authority organised its security conference ‘Always prepared?’ on how to draw lessons from major accidents. The conference was originally supposed to indicate that it was 30 years since the ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident, but in the last few years got a more up-to-date profile. Stavanger Aftenblad covered the conference and drew the following quotation from the lecture to the supervisor Magne Ognedal: «Kunne Deepwater Horizon happened in Norway and could Kielland happen again? The answer to that is yes. We have to assume that there is a risk associated with petroleum activities. The risk picture tries to draw in the management plans. It becomes a political matter whether or not the risk picture is acceptable’. I agree that the task of the authorities is to control the business and clarify the degree of risk. It's our job as politicians to make the final decisions. The disaster in the Gulf of Mexico has shown that marine oil protection can never be anything but a harm reduction tool. There is currently no oil protection equipment to ensure the protection of vulnerable natural areas in the sea or along the coast. Nor does there exist any equipment that is dimensioned to take away such quantities of oil as a real oil disaster entails. The ‘Full City’ wreck outside Langesund last summer was a real demonstration in that way. In this way, oil protection will never be sufficient to offset the potential risk of offshore oil activities in harsh weather conditions. We politicians must be aware of this also when we are about to decide on the possible opening of new areas for oil activities in vulnerable northern sea areas. I have therefore wanted to focus on this issue with a debate in Stortinget. I want to know how Norway is equipped to deal with an oil disaster, what we can learn from the situation in the Gulf of Mexico, and how the government will work on a systematic review of the experience of this terrible disaster, so that we can be as equipped to deal with our own challenges as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3006	I want to start by being allowed to thank the interpellant for raising this issue. A whole world is now following the battle in the Gulf of Mexico to stop the oil spill after the Deepwater Horizon exploded and sank on April 20, 2010. Eleven people disappeared in the depths, and several were injured. In addition, oil spills have still not been stopped. We do not yet know the overall extent of the disaster, but we know that the consequences are already very extensive, both human, environmental and economic. The fatal event is an important reminder of the importance of a high level of HMS in the petroleum industry, and I have assured myself that all actors in Norwegian petroleum activities are closely following the review given that all relevant learning is to be done. The causes of the major accident in the Gulf of Mexico have not been identified, but in order to be able to follow developments here in Norway, the Petroleum Authority has established an internal project group that follows up and assesses the measures taken in view of their relevance to the activities on Norwegian pedestal. Similar activities are carried out by other relevant authorities. The Land Association of the Oil Industry has informed that they are engaged in similar work. The aim is and must be to prevent such a thing from happening in Norway. The representative refers to the Gullfaks C event that is now ongoing in the North Sea. This is a serious incident in which one of the two barriers ensuring control of the well is weakened. However, I would like to stress that there is no reason in any way to equate this major accident with that in the Gulf of Mexico. The exhaust valve is intact and intensive work is being done to create barrier No. 2 and secure the well. Petroleum monitoring closely follows up Statoil, and the Petroleum Control Authority assesses Statoil’s control of the situation. Following the 1980 ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident, there has been a public demand that the establishment be operated with the lowest possible risk of damage and accidents. The regulatory and supervisory responsibilities for the activities are divided into several departments and underlying agencies. The Ministry of Labour, of Petroleum Control, is responsible for the legislation designed to prevent such incidents and for the identification of cause and effect. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, at the Coastal Works, is responsible for state preparedness for acute pollution, including oil spill collection during state action. The Ministry of the Environment, at the Directorate for Climate Change and Pollution, requires preparedness to deal with acute pollution in the petroleum industry. The Ministry of Oil and Energy, at the Directorate of Oil, is responsible for resource management. The oil industry operates under natural and technological conditions, which means that faults and accidents have the potential for serious damage to humans, the environment and material values. To meet this situation, a comprehensive HMS code has been developed that imposes stringent safety and management requirements. The regulatory framework is supported by industry standards. Standards have been developed following thorough processes for the qualification of new technologies and experience learning. Petroleum supervision ensures a close follow-up of the industry. The government's explicit expectation to the petroleum industries is that it will be world leader in the HMS. The HMS Code is based on the systematic accountability of all operators in the industry. The operator is directly responsible for the compliance of subcontractors. Through risk analyses and impact assessments, actors shall acquire the best possible knowledge of the risks of their activities. Where the activity is taking place in an environmentally vulnerable area, the choice of technology, organisation and preparedness needs to be adapted to compensate for increased risks to the environment. Barriers that are independent shall always be used so that a single fault cannot lead to an accident. It is a fundamental prerequisite for actors to work towards an ever-increasing improvement in the overall level of safety, and the learning of their own experience is an important tool here. The Authority’s oversight is in addition to its own control and aims at ensuring that the responsible companies carry out preventive activities that are proportionate to the potential impact on the environment. To the question of whether Norway is equipped to deal with an oil disaster, it is important to stress that the main focus is on preventing such a disaster. Nevertheless, it is important to recognise that it can never be guaranteed that a major accident cannot occur. Therefore, in addition to the strict requirements for the planning and operation of the establishment, a number of requirements for the establishment and exercise of preparedness have also been set out in the legislation. The main objective of the legislation is to establish measures to prevent or limit the consequences of accidents or accidents. Oil protection equipment itself is the responsibility of the operators and must be coordinated under the Petroleum Act, including with public emergency facilities. The coastal facility, which is responsible for state preparedness for acute oil or chemical emissions, may take over the management of an oil protection operation related to a specific incident if deemed necessary. Of course, if there is a major incident, the concern for life and health will come first, but the work on collecting oil and combating oil pollution will start as early as possible. In the oil protection operation, private, i.e. oil companies, state and municipal and intermunicipal readiness will be connected. Under the law, the State has the power to convene municipal emergency response resources and resources from private operators with emergency response obligations. Where there is a risk of very significant pollution damage, any person may be instructed to make available material or personnel to combat the accident. Oil management forecasts will be developed by the Meteorological Institute with the help of the Marine Research Institute, which, together with the Directorate of Fisheries, will also provide advice related to the allocation and presence of vulnerable marine living resources. In other words, such a situation would require coordination of all public and private resources and would require the management of the government's crisis selection. Mechanical collection is the priority measure, but it depends on weather conditions and is not effective at too high waves. Chemicals to speed up the natural breakdown of oil at sea could be used, depending on the type of oil, the time of the event and the possible occurrence of an event. Both the time and the location of the event on the Norwegian base will be of importance for the management of the oil protection operation. Finally, I would like to stress that, on the part of the authorities, we are following developments in the Gulf of Mexico very closely with a view to learning as much as possible. The follow-up of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico will be carried out in a coordinated manner with a view to updating the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten. I will also present new knowledge and the possible implementation of changes as a result of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico in the forthcoming Interim Communication on Working Conditions, the Working Environment and Safety. On Friday, the oil and energy minister and I will have a meeting with the major oil companies to hear their assessments of the current situation and what they are doing. I consider the ongoing need to take further action to ensure learning from this event.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3039	First, thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Thank you for notifying me of a coordinated approach by the authorities to learn from the animal-breeding experience that is now being done in the Gulf of Mexico. That's good. It is also obvious that all actors follow closely what is now happening. I recall that in the wake of the ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident, a powerful wake-up to the newly born and highly-developmentally-optimistic Norwegian oil state, there was a significant upgrade of the ambitions in the area of safety on Norwegian soil. I expect with the learning you're doing now, the same thing will happen. It is therefore important that all actors follow along and make their assessments. However, it is also important that the political authorities, in this context the Security Council, assess the need for reinforced legislation. With regard to the actors, I have to say that I got really exhausted when I read today's business on Saturday, because they have got hold of Statoil's applications for exploration at 2,000 meters deep in the Mexico Gulf from the American professional authorities. In these applications, dated 9 September and 22 October 2009, Statoil writes about the risk of drilling deeper than the site where «Deepwater Horizon» crashed: ‘It is unlikely that an oil spill will occur due to some of the proposed activities. [[on or below the surface]] Should this occur against assumption, it is unlikely that it will have an impact.» This writes the dominant player on Norwegian pedestal to the US authorities a few months before this accident occurs. My question to the Council of State is whether she is sure that the largest player on Norwegian pedestal takes risk assessments and safety challenges sufficiently seriously when they can write something like this, and actually base it on an application for an activity that is confusingly similar to the activity that has happened in the Gulf of Mexico.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3055	To the representative’s last question, I assume – which I have gone through – that we have a very wide security system in Norway. It also applies to Statoil. We've closely followed up all the companies. I will, as I said, also have a meeting with the central oil companies on Friday, including Statoil, where one of the themes will be how oil companies follow up the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, and what we can learn from it. Then I would also like to say that the Petroleum Control has had various reviews of this accident to see what implications it has for Norwegian Socket. Among other things, President Obama received a report, the so-called Salazar report, which is a review of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, correcting the search light on 21 points for which an improvement is sought. I've had a review of Petroleum Control based on those points, and they've gone through them. Overall, the supervisory board believes that there is no need to do similar things from the Norwegian side, with the exception of four points with which they are going to go further. I will also focus on the four points when I meet the oil companies on Friday. As the representative himself mentioned, today the Gro field is a deep water field, of 1,350 metres, but there are also other fields that come up as an application. That's right: it's deep water that's the most dangerous, because it's the most difficult technologically, so it's important that we especially look at this. It is therefore also the Petroleum Authority that has gone in and looked into whether there will be a need to do something in the Gro field. They have carefully assessed this and believe that, given what we know from the Gulf of Mexico now, there is no basis for doing something directly in the Gro field, as well as following the accident in the Gulf of Mexico very carefully to see if there are any new explanations as to what has happened. We still don't know what happened. Of course, when you know what's happened, it can matter what we have to do in Norway. I am not saying that we have assessed this once and for all. We have to keep track of what is found out about the causality of the Gulf of Mexico. Is there something there that says we have to do something similar in Norway, so go in and look at new requirements, etc. For deep water drilling, of course, we'll do it. But this has to be followed all the time, and the most important thing is actually to look at what you find out in the United States about the causal relationship in this accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3066	The oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico has made a very strong impression on most of us. The incident reminds us all that accidents and unforeseen incidents may occur, and that it is therefore important to have a strong effort to prevent accidents occurring, but also to be prepared for the worst in order to deal with any such events. The interpellant travels for that reason a very important theme in its interpellation that we are dealing with here today. Fortunately, we have been careful about many serious accidents and incidents on the Norwegian base, but many of us remember, of course, the dramatic and catastrophic ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident in 1980, as the representative Højbrätten also reminds us today. The TV images from that event as well as the eyewitness accounts from the survivors involved in retrospect have made a huge impression on all of us. The accident 30 years ago reminds us all of how fundamental it is to make tough demands on health, the environment and safety towards those who operate on Norwegian pedestals, and I believe that we have done so as decision-makers – both before and now. Every time we deal with concrete development cases on a Norwegian base here in Stortinget, the concern for health, the environment and safety is what we are primarily concerned about. Unfortunately, adverse events occur. Fortunately, although we have been proud of several incidents such as the ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident, we can never guard against adverse events – despite the fact that in Norway we are at the forefront of making tough demands on health, the environment and the safety of our operations on our pedestal, precisely to prevent adverse events. Because we can never guard ourselves by a hundred percent, we also have to make demands for an oil protection device that is as good as possible. If the worst happens, we have to prepare ourselves to deal with it in such a way that the adverse effects are minimised in terms of the environmental impact. Many thousands of people live large parts of their lives in or in close proximity to Norwegian pedestal. These people are entitled to something as fundamental as a safe and secure workplace. This responsibility lies with the employer, but it is also our job as politicians to ensure that we make and develop demands at all times, so that this basic need is satisfied. I believe that this responsibility is our responsibility as politicians. But it is equally important that all those who live along the coast and have their jobs there, both in fisheries, tourism and other industries, should also have basic security so that we can make the most stringent demands and have the best security and preparedness in place so that we can live and work along the coast. In order to ensure compliance with our requirements for standards in the HMS area, it is the responsibility of the Petroleum Authority to have the daily responsibility for this. Petroleum supervision is a strong and independent industry surveillance for the working environment and safety, including major accident risks. Petroleum supervision is the daily responsibility for a close follow-up of the industry to which the Council of State was committed. Our political task will therefore be to ensure that, in the future, the Petroleum Control Authority will continue to be a strong and independent oversight capable of carrying out its tasks in the best possible way. As for what we can learn from the event in the Gulf of Mexico, it's probably early on to answer that question now, with the exception of the reminder that it can actually happen unforeseeable. Until now, the Americans have had their focus on stopping or managing emissions, which I think we're all going to be happy for. Then we're going to hope that they'll succeed with this soon. For the red-green and for the government, the priority of health, environment and safety on Norwegian soil is first priority. For this reason, our ambitions are to make the world's most demanding demands in these areas, and at all times make use of the foremost technology in this area. But I have to say that the Gulf of Mexico also shows the importance of acquiring knowledge about both the offshore resource base and the natural values before a start-up operation on a Norwegian base. A broadest possible information and knowledge should be the basis for decision-making before we make our choices here to land. The experience and cause of the situation in the Gulf of Mexico will be important for us, and it can also form the basis for increased demands here to land. I have to say that I share the view of the interpellant Høybråten, and also President Obama's view, which is not only concerned, but has very clear speech against the company operating in the Gulf of Mexico, which is trying to blame others and cover up what has happened. No one should do after them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3089	Thank you to the interpellant Høybräten for seeing this important topic on the agenda. Thanks also to the Minister of Labour, who sees the importance of this. This is where we have to go together. I, who come from a coastal community, and who has experienced oil pollution very closely, think that it makes extra sense when oil pollution occurs in such dimensions as what has happened and is still happening in the Gulf of Mexico. The ‘Server’ event in 2007 and the ‘Rocknes’ in 2002 are small drops to be considered in this respect. But anyway -- being close and not least seeing damage like oil pollution can give on a scale like that in Norway, makes it possible for one to try to get into what's happening in the Gulf of Mexico, but we understand it completely, no matter how much we try. It makes an impression when you're in the spring and you find a duck full of oil, where only the eye and the beak are visible without oil. Therefore, it is very important that everything one has of expertise in the field of oil with regard to the prevention of such disasters is in high activity, and that a teacher of all possible experience gets after what is happening in the Gulf of Mexico. We have to hope that this doesn't happen again, either here at home or elsewhere in the world. Marine oil protection poses challenges other than those on land or on land. At sea, there are completely different forces and completely different dimensions. Norway is forward-looking before oil extraction, but are we if such disasters happen? We have to be equally competent here as well, we have to do everything we can to avoid this. All response technologies that are being developed and that should be developed will be left to the experts, but the costs will also have to be shared by us as countries. Emergency training and training will be more and more important. This is where the ratios of oil extractors as well as the training bodies within this area need to be properly adapted. Norway shall and must be the best in the class also in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3104	First, thank you to the interpellant Høybråten for raising an important debate today. The event in the Gulf of Mexico is a strong reminder that all activity is associated with risk. It's a tragic event that's both cost human life and cause oil spills in the golf area, and there's a great deal of damage to the American golf coast in the wake of these spills. And as others have said earlier in the debate, we do not know the extent of these emissions yet. This is a serious situation, and from our point of view it is important that we now follow the investigation, so that we can learn from what has happened. It is therefore positive that the Petroleum Control has taken the initiative in a work that is just about to get knowledge of what has happened, and compare this with Norwegian conditions to study the relevance of our own base. In addition, the OLF, the Landsforening of the Oil Industry Association, has engaged the Norwegian Veritas in a similar study, just to see if there can be parallels to the Norwegian base and the important work the companies themselves do to improve safety and environmental considerations. It has not been long since the Petroleum Authority released a report showing that there are some safety procedures on the Norwegian base that have not been followed. It makes it clear that regardless of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, we also have a job to do at home on these questions. And we have a responsibility for all the people who have their work offshore and the vulnerability they have in relation to the danger of accidents. But the accident in the Gulf of Mexico is a strong reminder to all of us about the importance of good safety practices, strict demands with multiple barriers and, of course, also a high level of oil protection in the event of an accident. The situation in Norway is somewhat different from that in the Gulf of Mexico. There have been uncontrolled blasts on Norwegian pedestals too, namely the Bravo accident, but there have never been blasts during search drilling. In Norway, we have some other requirements. Among other things, since 1993, there has been a requirement for so-called acoustic switches, which are a remote control valve on the seabed. In addition, for example: in areas outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea, not as much water baptism and pressure as in the Gulf of Mexico. The Norwegian Veritas has had a review of 23 recorded events in the last 20 years, from 1987 to 2007, and concluded that most of them would not be possible on a Norwegian base because of our requirements for drilling operations. It's worth noting that 96 pst. of these events just happened in the American part of the Gulf of Mexico. I record that the Council of State says that the US authorities want to learn from how we organize our management and our regulation of the oil business, and I hope and believe that we can give something here to the US authorities. As I said, learning is important. The event is a strong reminder that all activity involves risk. However, for the Norwegian coastline, ship traffic is defined as the greatest environmental risk compared to emissions reaching land. We all remember the last event outside Langesund and the disaster of Full City. It shows the importance of the preparedness element, and there is no doubt that preparedness is higher in areas of oil and gas activity, which is also positive if we are to experience shipwreck. Our task as politicians is to have an overall approach to the different issues. Therefore, in terms of oil and gas extraction in areas defined as vulnerable, it is important to ensure that the risk of adverse events is as close as possible to zero through strict regulation. Furthermore, good control procedures and penalties are important if the regulation is not followed up by the different actors in order to reduce the risk of emissions. The right considers that we can balance sustainable oil and gas activities against environmental considerations, fishing interests, travel and other interests. In addition, an overall approach is important in order to also see the benefits to society of increased activity — for the further development of skills, industry, housing, among others. our northern part of the country, income to the municipalities of the north, and thereby further development of welfare services for the inhabitants. But what's the important challenge now is to learn from the event in the Gulf of Mexico, and see how we can further improve our own regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3127	Thanks to Dagfinn Højbräten for a good interpellation and the Council of State for a good answer. The red-green government is very concerned about oil protection. We all remember the Langesund accident. We have an oil industry that puts a lot of pride in its readiness, and the focus on preparedness in the public debate is fairly good. Of course, it's been stronger in time after the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. But we can never be good enough, we can never be completely sure. We'll always be vulnerable. The only absolute certainty against the undesirable consequences of an activity is to stop the activity altogether. We're not discussing that today. Actually, I was going to take a trip to NorLense today, in Lofoten, but we're here tonight and debating, so there was no going north. The debate was scheduled for today. Good oil protection is essential for a country with as strong offshore activities as Norway. But we can never lean back and be satisfied, and we must never be so satisfied with our own readiness, our own technology, our own excellence that we take lightly the risk of major oil disasters. That's what's about to happen to some people now. The right was quick to adopt oil statements at its national meeting this year, in the middle of the disastrous oil accident in the United States, which is now inside its 49th day. The Land Association of the Oil Industry is moving forward with the same rhetoric as before. LoVe Petro buys even expensive attachments in the Evening Post, where one manages to make the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico an argument for starting an opening process in the Lofoten and the West Sea, and in Senja. Last but not least, the director of Statoil Norway, who believes that the debate on the oil accident has been too emotional. When this happens, the alarm should go. Humility stands for fall. Expressing concern for our own coast, our own wildlife, our own fish, as a result of the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, is not to be emotional. It's a perfectly correct and completely rational act, considering recent events. That is why there is a good interpellation of the representative Højbräten here promoting, especially at a time when the debate is high on our own oil business, where the boundaries of the oil business are being discussed, and how safe such activity will be in new areas, increasingly north. In such a setting, it is important that our ability to deal with any consequences of this business is also thoroughly discussed here in the hall. I am pleased that the Director of Petroleum Control last Friday said that he cannot exclude a similar accident as in the Gulf of Mexico in Norway. Similarly, the former director of the Mineral Management Service, Elmer Danenberger, in the Senate hearing in the United States, has stated that it is uncertain whether an acoustic blow-out blocker – to which the representative Meling aimed at – could make any difference in the Mexico Gulf at all. When the experts are so insecure when we do not yet know, I am still wondering how safe individual right-wing politicians can be. I therefore hope that the most offensive followers of opening new, vulnerable and coastal areas will take good care of the events of the last few weeks. The right hand side and the front side are not as tough in language now as before the accident. But the representative Meling’s attempt to make Norway a much, much safer country than the United States is worrying me a little – not because it is very likely that there is an oil disaster in Norway, because it is obviously not, but because the risk is there. It is absolutely right that Norway and the United States are two different countries. The representative of Meling is quite right about that. There are severe conditions in Norway, we drill very far north in Norway, it is cold in Norway and more difficult to maintain a good oil preparedness the further north we operate. In addition, there was a so-called fail-safe mechanism that failed in the Gulf of Mexico. As little fail-safe as BP's fail-safe mechanisms can be, we can trust that the right-wing parties are eager to open up new areas. I hope, therefore, that this debate makes a little more impression on the Right in particular, as I understood was the most offensive now in this debate – than it might seem. I would just like to remind you of what has also been said by representative Dagfinn Højbrätten for the opinion in Statoil’s application for MMS in the United States, that ‘there is little likelihood that an oil beer will happen because of some of the proposed activities’, as Statoil wrote in its applications on 9 September and 22 October 2009. [[...]] The kind of insurance from an oil industry with self-interest in drilling oil, we should be very careful about taking too good fish in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3153	For the Centre Party, efforts have been made to avoid a major accident offshore par excellence. It is a natural priority, both in terms of the environment and in terms of those who work offshore. I want to make some comments about preventing accidents. In the debate that was triggered by the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, I think there are particularly two issues that are important. First of all, the security on the Norwegian base is good. Secondly, oil and gas industry will always pose a danger of harm to man and the environment, including in our country. That is why I agree with the interpellant that this is an important debate, and it is right to put the security on the agenda after such an event that the world has experienced in the Gulf of Mexico. We're lucky, we can learn from an accident that primarily affects others. We can use this situation to strengthen our preparedness further. I think it is somewhat disturbing that Statoil Norway's chief in a debate post comments on the debate in the wake of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico as what he calls a dead pelican debate that is emotional. This is, in the view of the Centre Party, not to enter into the debate with the necessary audacity. On the Norwegian base, the ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident occurred 30 years ago. History has confirmed that it is possible to extract oil and gas under demanding conditions with few undesirable events, but of course not without risk. A robust authority apparatus is decisive to operate with a minimum risk of major accidents. Free and independent petroleum supervision has been an important factor in the safety work on the base. It was supposed to be a broad political deal, but in fact the Progress Party proposed as late as in its alternative budget to add Ptil as part of the Labour Inspectorate. It shows a lack of respect for the large security tasks over the oversight. Another challenge is the change in the actor image of the socket – Statoil as the dominant player and the emergence of many new, small oil companies. I am, like the majority during the 2010 government budget, busy that this gives some specific security challenges. It is important to clarify that those companies are responsible for both the risk of accidents at work and the risk of ensuring environmentally sound operation. It makes sense that Petroleum Supervision has a risk-based oversight of the main focus on preventing major accidents. Finally, I would like to point out that what is happening in the Gulf of Mexico is an important reminder of the potential impact of uncontrolled emissions. We must therefore proceed with particular caution in vulnerable areas, and in some areas, after the view of the Centre, we will not have any petroleum activity at all. In particular, we need to bear in mind the great challenge of oil protection when a person is exposed to bad weather and high wave heights. The world's best oil preparedness is not sufficient to prevent major environmental impacts from uncontrolled blasts, and there is something even the followers of oil and gas power in the Lofoten and the West Sea are listening to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3169	The left is, on the same line as several here, concerned about the situation we see in the Gulf of Mexico. It is obvious that the petroleum industry lacks knowledge of how to deal with a discharge into deep water. Norwegian petroleum activity differs from a number of other countries, solely based on offshore production. The left is for a further petroleum activity, but although we are for this, we are against activity in the most vulnerable areas. And we're dedicated to making strict demands on the companies, so that we minimise the pressures on the environment and the risks associated with the activity. The challenges we have seen that Statoil has been linked to Gullfak’s C and the situation we experienced at Snorre A in 2004 are a reminder that the oil disaster we are witnessing can happen again, and that can happen in Norway. It is obvious that technology and human beings can fail, both in terms of taking the right regulatory action, and in terms of access to technologies and solutions to deal with the accident once it occurs. The left has long been concerned about Norwegian oil protection preparedness and the possibility of responding to a major disaster. We saw the effects of the “Full City” accident outside Langesund, and it had to be an accident before the government reacted and strengthened the towing boat readiness on the South, despite the fact that on a number of occasions the Left had addressed this matter with the government. Finally, I would like to commend the interpellant for addressing this issue, and that he challenges the state council on the status of preparedness to prevent and manage adverse events in the petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3180	Let me start by saying that I am happy that we get this debate, and I would like to thank the interpellant for that. There are several people who have spoken here today about the strong impression that the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico has done to us. I think it's getting extra strong because it's happening to a company like BP as an operator. We're not talking about any unprofessional cowboy company here, we're talking about a serious actor that we know well from Norwegian base, and I think many people have great confidence in. Not only is this an accident that has proved to be very difficult to control, but the company has also behaved with Obama's anger to hold back information, to try to sub-communicate how serious the accident is in fact, to try to push blame on others and to devour those affected, with small money, while the shareholders get huge dividends and expensive television advertising rolls over American TV screens. So, of course, it's close to asking, could the accident have happened here? We don't know much about what happened. In the Gulf of Mexico, all drilling is stopped until further notice. Maybe that's how our safety requirements would have prevented us from getting the exact course of events that we got in the Gulf of Mexico, maybe not. Anyway, it's a powerful reminder that the things that we don't think can happen happen. They happen even with serious actors like BP as an operator. We can never guard ourselves 100 pst. I'll think, maybe hope, that those who have spent a lot of time and energy minimizing risk and making pictures of how ridiculously little chance there is for something serious to happen, for example. in the most vulnerable spawning areas, think again. I'm not going to mention the name of any of these communication people in the oil companies, but it's close to thinking about them. That we can't guard ourselves, demands preparedness. Although the likelihood of an accident of the extent that we now see in the Gulf of Mexico is small, the risk is a function of both probability and damage potential, and we also have some areas in Norway where the damage potential is high. The representative Sund said it's too early to say something bastant about what we can learn from Mexico, and that's of course quite right. At the same time, oil conservation has been the topic of this room on repeated occasions, and we know some things about the challenges. We know, for example. the effectiveness of emergency measures varies greatly with location, with seasonality, with weather conditions. Is it bad weather – and unfortunately it tends to be it by accident, that's why it happens – we have a high wave height, traditional oil protection equipment is put out of play with bilges and pumps. Then you're given the power ratio, you're given the wind ratio and the distance to land. Therefore, distance from land is such an essential assessment point when granting new permits for drilling. So it's important what kind of oil it's about -- whether there's a high degree of natural dispersal, or mixing in the water. One of the things that we see very clearly from the Gulf of Mexico is that it's incredibly problematic to know how much oil is under the surface of the sea that you don't have control of. The development of new and more modern technologies in this area is demanding, not least cost-effective, and few companies have their backs to bear. It's expensive technology, and it's technology that you'll hopefully never put into practice. When Stortinget dealt with the management plan for the Norwegian Sea last year, this was a theme on which the government parties were very concerned. Among other things, we pointed out that the State should take more active action in this area, taking the initiative to launch technology development programmes to improve oil protection. We can make as strict demands as we can – and there I feel safe, we make strict demands – but it assumes that the technology required to meet the requirements actually exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3201	Like all my colleagues, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Højbräten, for taking up this interpellation. SV has always been concerned with the safety of our oil business. Before one of the first major accidents came, one of the SV's representatives asked questions about the safety of this in Stortinget and was then told that it was about as likely as, when every tenth child is Chinese, that a Norwegian woman was to give birth to a Chinese woman when she was going to have her tenth child; she should not be concerned about that. Unfortunately, there were not many days later that there were large headlines in the paper. ‘A Chinese person is born’, it said. Bravo blasting was a fact. At the time, we were also assured that everything was fine. That is why I hope that something positive can come out of this terrible accident and blasting out. It is our responsibility politically to ensure that the activities that are taking place take place within the framework of which the risk is minimal, because the danger is so much related to accidents of the extent we have now seen. It should also notice all the parties now. In fact, we need a very strong counter-competence and competence and expertise in the safety and operation of these facilities. The Advance Party, for example, has for several years wanted to cut down on Petroleum Control. I believe that now such thoughts have to be stopped. We need to have a stronger oversight in order to also provide enough advice and expertise as politicians to be able to put in place properly and ensure enough routines for this. Oil and gas activities are very profitable. Therefore, there are very strong economic interests that will always push the boundaries, not because they are necessarily immoral, but because there is a lot of profitability in it. I belong to those who believe that the power of some of these economic interests is too great today. It is so big that one tries with a lot of money to push forward decisions that I believe from my best judgement is dangerous and is taking a risk with large areas that we should not take. BP said before the accident, that this couldn't happen. They thought they had knowledge of risk and danger, and that they had technology that made this impossible. Therefore, I am not surprised that Statoil in similar applications at some point just before Christmas they believe they can make the same statement. That they continue to express themselves today as if they believe the same thing is not surprising, but it is not very reassuring. I am not particularly reassured by the kind of opinions of large, powerful actors in this area, where it is so very important that the risk that is present is actually recognised. That is why I am pleased that the Petroleum Control is as nuanced as it is in its approach to the matter. There hasn't been much discussion here, but in the U.S., you talk a lot about who is going to pay the bill. I think we also have to take discussions around, so that the bill, if anything wrong happens, is placed in the right place. In the Petroleum Control – I think that’s where I’ve heard this – they say: If you think safety is expensive, try an accident! Accidents are terribly expensive, especially in these industries. So I'm going to use the last seconds I have available, to also say a little bit about the work environment related to safety issues on the socket. It's very important. We have high demands for the working environment in these industries, precisely because the working environment is so closely related to the safety work on the base and to these operations, where everything has to be done correctly, and where the smallest mistakes we can make in other working conditions in these areas can have the kind of disastrous consequences that it gets. Therefore, there is also a need to address work environment issues related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3220	There's every reason to be humble about what's now happening in the Gulf of Mexico. The loss of human life, the enormous impact on the environment, wildlife and marine resources and the economic impact on ordinary people and their livelihoods should give us all reason for reflection. For Norway, petroleum revenues have contributed to a significant well-being and opportunity to meet future pension challenges in a way that few other countries can. But even though it is easy to see blindly the historical opportunities that this has given, and will give in the future, this is an important reminder that it is not our collective greed that will underlie our policies. If the accident in the Gulf of Mexico can lead to something positive, it is that as a nation, we are laying an even stronger precautionary principle on the basis of our activity. It's getting fast that the absence of accidents can make us less aware of the dangers that may arise. I assume that it is this sluggishness that lies behind the progressive proposals of the Progress Party on cuts in the allocations to the Petroleum Authority, through its alternative budgets. But it's by being in advance that accidents can be avoided. If you had such a failed policy of supervision and of building up skills, it would unfortunately have been too late when the accident first hit. The progress party invited us all to join together. The Party of Progress should itself involve itself in that community, by participating in and strengthening its Petroleum Supervision. Although Norway is well advanced in terms of HMS in oil and gas activity, we can have no less ambition than being world-leading. Clear feedback from employee organisations and others is that more is done than is required from industry. We have an open culture on a Norwegian base where it's actually desirable that people say from. There's no obvious way in the world of work elsewhere. Perhaps it is also positive that we have other actors on Norwegian soil, actors who also need to learn from the strict health, environmental and safety requirements that are being addressed, and from our way of working. This culture of transparency can help ensure that accidents do not occur in the future. I'm glad that the Petroleum Control and the oil industry alone are gripping the tragic situation in the Gulf of Mexico, and see what we can learn from this. Governments are clearly committed to their security responsibilities. It's important. In the years ahead, we will include: to deal with a management plan, which does not reduce the precautionary principle. It must be that increased ambitions for oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil are followed up by even greater HMS ambitions, in order to secure those who themselves work in the industry, and to secure our common future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3235	First: Thank you to my co-representatives for a strong commitment to a serious and important matter. Three important questions have been central to the debate: Could this have happened in Norway? The answer is yes, according to Security Director Magne Ognedal. The second question is, are we equipped to face such a disaster? We have been given a good account of the legislation, the security system and the sharing of responsibilities between different actors, but for my part I would say: we are hardly. And the last question is, can we learn? Yeah, we can definitely do that. I am pleased that the Council of State is taking an overall approach to this learning process and ensuring that all actors take this very seriously, and that the government is following the conclusions that come out of these processes. Legislation must be in place, and resources must be devoted to prevention, oil protection and not least to supervision. I am pleased that so many representatives have mentioned resources to the Petroleum Control, which it is easy to underestimate in calm times, but which we can regret having neglected, when something has really happened. I would also like to stress that the experience that has been gained, and the statements that have been heard fall before and after this accident, suggest a special vigilance in Norway, because the management of our resources is now greatly dominated by one large company. When the merger took place, not least we here in Stortinget were very concerned to ensure that it would not go beyond the focus on security. Finally, a question to the Council of State: With the work that is now under way by the government, in interaction with the various actors, how will she come back to the Storing and inform about the conclusions of this work drawn by the government? Will it be a thought that the Stortinget will be presented with the experiences of the Gulf of Mexico and the relevance for Norway in its own safety message, so that we can follow this up – also from the overall and comprehensive perspective that has shaped this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3248	There have been many thanks here to the representative who has raised the interpellation, and I will once again thank him, but most of all perhaps to the debaters. It is good to see that politically everyone agrees on the seriousness of this situation. I also believe, and I also seem to read that everyone has the insight – which has also been underlined by Magne Ognedal of the Petroleum Control Authority – that this is an accident that can happen in Norway, of course. That's what he said, and I've also emphasized it. We have an incredibly high focus on safety in Norway. We're very good at safety. We've created a very good system in terms of safety. We have – as it has also been emphasised by the representative from SV – a very good system in terms of employee-employee/company relationship, which also helps to focus on safety. But I think we should be clear that just when you're sure you have the safest system in the world, you have to be careful not to rest on it. I think I've heard that a lot of the things that have been raised have been related to the companies, including statements from both BP and Statoil regarding the risks associated with that type of accident. I think it's important that we stress to the companies that we now expect a very clear focus after the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. As I said, there's some of what I'm going to bring up in the meeting I'm going to have with the companies next Friday. Then I just want to take up a little thing that was mentioned by the representative from the Right: the report from the Petroleum Authority on the overall level of safety – or the state of safety on Norwegian pedestal – and which is an annual matter, has concluded that the level of safety is good as before. However, as the representative pointed out, the report also pointed out that workers have some objections to their focus on the prevention of major accidents in individual operations. This takes Petroleum Control very seriously, and I take it very seriously. I have had a meeting with the Petroleum Control and the OLF on this, and they will now send this report to all the oil companies to get their assessment of the follow-up of those who operate on the base in the case of major accidents. There is also something I should mention at the meeting on Friday. I stress that there is no drama in the report, but it shows that it is important not to rest on the security that we have, it must at any time be desired, which is done now, because of this accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Then I will end by saying thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3263	That being the case, it is no. 9 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3269	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3277	In the course of the debate, Nikolai Astrup put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up one or more funds in the context of the 2011 State Budget to provide financial support for, and investment in, the development and use of new, climate-friendly technologies. The management of the Fund should take place outside the current established instrument and the government should be asked to develop different models of how this can be done.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3304	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Oskar Jarle Grimstad on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Oskar Jarle Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 3 and 4, from Oskar Jarle Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change stock targets from being based on annual youth to counting the number of actual individuals.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to give the Authority the power to require the removal of pests in order to prevent animal trachea and grazing. This must apply to both bufe and pure.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3334	The proposals of the Progress Party were not accepted by 79 votes to 25. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.03.07]] It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate flexible management of predatory policies and to facilitate the stimulation of real regional policy participation. The decisions taken by the surveyors should be final and they must have full access to the instrument and to the competences of the State's natural resources.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3349	The proposal from the Progress Party and the Right was not accepted by 61 votes to 43. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.03.26]] The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary changes to the game law to extend the emergency protection right to emergency workers in the event of predatory attacks against dogs and when predators act aggressively in the field.’ The Committee had set up: Document 8:95 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3368	In the case of alternative voting between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, the vote was approved by 55 votes to 49. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.04.03]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3378	During the debate, Oskar Jarle Grimstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the same requirements in Norway as in the EU for CO2 cleaning at gas power plants.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3411	During the debate, Mr Skumsvoll put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Grand Duchy, the Government is asking for proposals to amend Chapter 11 of the Plan and the Building Act prohibiting construction in the coastal zone with a view to transferring more power and power over land to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3445	During the debate, Øyvind Håbrek has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Stortinget, the government asks, in the context of the 2011 State Budget, to set up a project support scheme for municipalities in order to follow up national environmental objectives, which also focus on the development of competences and the exchange of competences between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3480	During the debate, Mr Skumsvoll put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer matters to the mandate, powers and role of the Riksantikvaren.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3507	During the debate, Mr Skumsvoll put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeal the National Policy Regulation for Purchasing Centres.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3534	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the rapid implementation of socio-economically viable climate measures proposed in Climate Change 2020, as well as measures at lower cost of action than the expected future quota price.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3557	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-07.ana.ud1163e3667	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
