ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e26	The representatives of Martin Kolberg, Bård Hoksrud, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e43	On behalf of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Gunnar Gundersen, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I would like to make a proposal on NRK and advertising funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e48	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e51	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to assist Iceland regardless of the fate of the Icesave Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e56	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e59	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and I am pleased to make a proposal to amend the compensation law § 3-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e64	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e67	On behalf of Olemic Thommessen, Ingerd Schou, Bjørn Lødemel, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e73	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e95	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Grete Faremo Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen Council of State Audun Lysbakken The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e114	I have a question to the Council of State Lighthouses. We who live in Norway are as fortunate to enjoy freedom as a safe democracy gives us. We have the right to express ourselves, we all have the essential right to decide our own lives, and we have the right to decide who we want to marry. Unfortunately, this right does not apply to all residents of Norway. When we see that the number of forced marriages increases explosively under the red-green government, it tells us that there are many people with minority backgrounds who cannot live with the same freedom that the rest of us take for granted. It should bother the Council of State much more than what I have recorded that he has expressed in the last day's debate on this issue. Rather, on the contrary, I hear Lysbakken say that the government's policy is working. But how can he claim that the government's policy works when government statistics show that the number of forced marriages in Norway is rising sharply? There is a sign that other measures are needed to ensure that people with a minority background are also given the same right to choose whom to marry. For this reason, I would like to challenge the Council of States: the Progress Party has often made proposals for action, such as: has done in Denmark, which works. One of them is to introduce a 24-year age limit for collection. We see from all of the statistics that a lot of people who are being taken to marriage in Norway are under 23 years of age, and a lot of people are under 18 years of age. At that time, the alarm bells should ring in the department, and then the Council of State should intervene and implement the action that has worked well in Denmark, leading to a sharp reduction in the number of forced marriages.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e126	The right to marry whomever you want applies to everyone in Norway, but there are those who violate that right. It is a serious violation, and it is a violation of not only the Norwegian law, but of the human rights and a number of international conventions that Norway has signed. For the Government it is a very strong priority to bring this phenomenon to life. All cases of forced marriage are totally unacceptable, and we want to send a very strong signal to those who are engaged in this kind of practice, that this is not accepted in this country. So it's important to say that the numbers that have now been provided don't say what the representative Siv Jensen says. They're not saying anything about whether the number of forced marriages is increasing or whether they're going down. What the numbers say is, is how many requests we get to the auxiliary device. As the representative knows, we did not have a proper and good public utility for victims of forced marriage a short time ago. The reason why we now see an increase in numbers is that the action plan put in place by the Government is starting to work. With regard to the requests we have received – there is a strong increase from 2008 to 2009 among the minority advisors at the schools and the integration advisors at the embassies, who are doing a fantastic job of reaching out to these young people – I think unfortunately we are not able to reach them all yet. That's why it's going to be just like this statistics, that it's going to hopefully increase something as we get to more. If we do that, we're also going to be able to bring down the real numbers of forced marriages, because unfortunately we don't have a full overview of how widespread this is. But it has a very high priority on my part, my ministry and the government to fight this, to show a clear attitude and to continue with the 40 actions contained in the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e137	The point is that it happens, and that there are too many people in a society where really no one should be exposed to getting married against their will. I record that the Council of State's response to this is that he wants to send a signal that this is not acceptable. What about soon implementing measures that make this less attractive? It is about punishing parents who are doing this against the will of their own children. And when the extent of this is obviously as large as it is, you don't believe that it will have consequences to implement, contrary to Norwegian law. Danish statistics show that before two thirds of these marriages were carried out with penance, while after introducing an age limit of 24 years it was reduced by one third. This is a dramatic improvement. When Denmark, with good luck, has introduced an age limit of 24 years, why will the Government not implement the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e144	It is not right that I concentrate on sending signals, although signals are important because attitudes are important in this debate. In its action plan, the government has 40 different actions. We're going to spend 70 million dollars. kr a year on this just because we think this is a problem that concerns more than just a handful of people, as it has sometimes looked like in this debate. I get messages from family protection offices and from minority advisors that we reach more, but there are still more we can't reach. But what these figures show, which is the starting point for this debate, is that the government's action works because we reach more. This means that we can both prevent crime and that we have more opportunity to punish those who commit crimes, because this is a violation of Norwegian law. Now that we have gained more knowledge of how our actions work, of course, I should also consider other measures and change things we do wrong. However, Denmark’s experience is slightly different, and there is a lot of debate about whether these measures work or not. We have an action plan with many measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e151	There will be three follow-up questions – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e154	The Council of State shows a touching commitment to take this seriously and refers to the points in the action plan that will work. This development shows that this does not work. Then it is important, as the Progress Party sees it, that we get proper action in place. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who was Minister of Labour and Inclusion for some time ago, said that forced marriage is so serious that we need to assess the age limit and requirements for access time in Norway. In 2002, Karita Beckelmen said that we need to get a ban on siblings marrying each other. Statistics in the Institute of Public Health show that 30 p.m. of stillbirths and 42 pst. infant deaths may be the result of matrimonial matrimonial relationships with cousins. My question to the Council of State will then be: If one of these measures can work, will the Council of State now impose a ban on siblings being allowed to marry each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e163	I want to say again that this is a problem that we know is serious, and the more we get to know about it, the more we see that it has a scale that makes political action necessary. But what the figures presented yesterday show is not that we fail to meet this problem, but that we do more than before because the auxiliaries reach more people. That's why they show that the Government's action plan works, and that we have to do more of what's there. That's what's in these numbers. Then, of course, we're going to discuss more measures, not least as we experience the action plan, because then we'll see what works and does not work. The ban on siblings has been discussed many times in Norway. Several investigations have been carried out, with the conclusion that there are also disproportionately high levels of enforcement effectiveness. That is why the conclusion has so far been, and I agree with it, that it is not an appropriate instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e170	The work of non-governmental organisations towards forced marriage has been very good for many years, with flexibility and flexibility. At the hour you've been able to deal with acute, serious situations. In the new action plan, the volunteers who work against forced marriage are almost not mentioned in one word – unfortunately, I would say. They must not contribute to their good competence. Public opinion is now almost unique. It is characterized by a lot of bureaucracy, by poor use of resources, by rigid systems and inertia. One example is when a serious matter has to be dealt with where life is at risk. Unlike the voluntary organisations' handling of a matter that took a few hours and where it could be resolved in one day, two to three days must now be used. We can't accept that. When Erna Solberg was involved in designing the action plan for the first time, the volunteers were given considerable space. How will the Council of State ensure that volunteering is able to contribute to its competence and that the acute, serious events are dealt with rapidly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e178	That's an important question. I had the pleasure of discussing this in the morning today with Gerd Fleischer in SEIF who has many years of experience in this work, long before the public effort we are talking about here started. It is clear that the experience of voluntary organisations working early on this is invaluable. It may also often be that non-governmental organisations can turn around quickly. I'd like to look at, as we gradually get the knowledge of how the action plan has worked, whether there are things we can do in the device that work better. Then, of course, I should also listen to the volunteer organisations. At the same time, I think it is important to say that, in my view, it has been a right priority to build up a public capacity that was not there before, and to ensure that the public utility focuses on forced marriage. What we are now seeing is that the public utility is able to help many more. The minority counsellors in schools, for example, and the competence teams in contact with the first line, are very important. But the public and the volunteers must complement each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e185	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e188	I also heard the Political Quarter today, and I heard the concern from Gerd Fleischer, where she says that the public takes over more and more – at least that's what I heard from the discussion. This will mean that it will take longer, it will be more bureaucratic. I have to say that this government is an expert at taking over the volunteers, to the public. Even in the state council's own home state, we now have a child protection institution that's been running for decades, Styve Gard, which is about to be closed down. This is dramatic. Institutions such as SEIF and many others are also a security. Not all of these are subject to forced marriages, who dare to go to the public. It's a quality in itself to go to an environment that's known, that's safe. What will the Council of State do, so that SEIF and other organisations survive and have predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e195	SEIF's work I follow with great interest. The experience they've had for many years is very important in the work we're going to do. That's why I'm looking, among other things. to have meetings with SEIF to get their input into this. Then I think it's important to say that what this government has done first and foremost is to increase its efforts and make sure that we build up a public capacity to seriously enforce marriages in the public utility. It was absolutely necessary, it's been an important priority, and it makes us able to reach more. I want to use the opportunity to praise those who do a great job, for example. under the auspices of the Directorate for Integration and Diversity, which reaches many of these young people every day. So it's not done in sterile and public offices, but out in schools, out where people live, and it's proven to be effective. That's the numbers we got yesterday, a clear sign of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e202	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e205	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister of Defence. I don't think any of us could have avoided being apprehended by the current situation in Haiti – a country that has been ridden by violence episodes, dictatorships and conflicts. Perhaps that country on the Western hemisphere with the lowest degree of development has encountered a natural disaster where an unknown number of people, probably several hundred thousands, have been killed. It seems that the country's already poor political and administrative infrastructure has been destroyed. There's a need for massive help, and eventually some of the help starts to come up, for example. because US forces have helped to increase the administrative management capacity to obtain part of the auxiliary material. We have the tradition of having an increasing focus on these kinds of challenges, including safety issues. We see that conflicts related to countries affected by natural disasters, such as short-term — i.e. immediate — or long-term, will be a major part of the challenges ahead. Of course, it will also be part of the defence mindset you have to have about what you can do in that case. My specific question to the Minister of Defence is whether the Government has carried out a review of what military, possibly civil defence, resources Norway may contribute to the current situation of Haiti, either in the short term or in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e214	The situation in Haiti is precarious, it's not really a description. What we learned from the tsunami, however, was that when major disasters occur, perhaps coordination of efforts is also more important. What we've been trying to do from the Department of Defense, and of course with other departments, is work along several lines. We now welcome the decision of the United Nations Security Council to strengthen its operation in the area, with currently 2,000 military and 1,500 police officers. We have started to identify what we can contribute on short notice to the UN. We have also cleared several of the field kitchens that are wanted to be used by non-governmental organisations. We know that there has been a request for assistance to port command capabilities. We could all see pictures of how serious the relationship in the port is. So here we want to contribute what we can in the short term through – as I said – non-governmental organisations, and are prepared to enter as quickly as possible with additional capacities. And then it'll take some time to actually assess whether there are other capacities we can hold with, but that will take a little longer to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e223	I am pleased that the Government has looked at capacities, and hope they will keep quiet with capacities that are needed. There is a lot that needs to be done to make a country like Haiti work, with so many killed and so big a flaw. Today, American forces have had to stop a rush against the hospital, so that you can treat people at all, simply because the need and desperation are so great. Then it becomes especially for me to hear both representatives of non-governmental organisations from Norway and, not least, researchers like Wenche Hauge, who yesterday said that the American presence was almost occupying Haiti, when you do a relief effort of this kind. I hope that the Council of State will distance itself from it, but also be involved in the public debate on the possibility of the military in humanitarian disasters to provide what is needed for the relief to come, instead of the somewhat passive attitude that I have sometimes experienced there, namely that there is a great deal of commitment to the distinction between military and humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e232	I don't think there can be any doubt that the United States is contributing a very important help in this situation that now exists in Haiti. Then, as former Minister of Assistance, I would say that we should be very careful to draw into the fundamental discussion on how to sort civil and military aid. What I can see with satisfaction is that there are good, practical forms of cooperation between civil and military operations where it is necessary to find such cooperation solutions, but where it is incredibly important that we have a conscious view that these are coordination and cooperation mechanisms, and that military operations are carried out by military and civil operations under civil leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e239	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e242	In the cruel tragedy that we are now witnessing in Haiti, what Erna Solberg was about has been focused on the American military presence. From some quarters this has been criticised, and the PRIO researcher to whom Solberg's representative referred went so far as to agree with Hugo Chávez that this was almost an invasion of Haiti. The Defence Manager of Norway, Harald Sunde, gave a talk two to three days ago on future challenges for the Defence of Climate Change and Natural Disasters. And here in Stortinget, we've dealt with the big news of social security and preparedness. The question of the Minister of Defence will be: is this distinction between military and civil action important in terms of balance of power and such things, but what cooperation measures does the Minister of Defence see as contributing to the future of defence in order to be able to respond quickly if natural disasters occur in our immediate vicinity?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e252	As far as the situation in Haiti is concerned, I see the one who is so insensitive and the needs so enormous that it is important to find solutions on how to contribute to efforts with allies and with partners under the United Nations system. Then, as the head of defence has also stated, I feel that the defence, with a mandate from the United Nations, can contribute to various actions in operations aimed at stabilising, creating security in different areas of the world where it is natural. In the current situation in Haiti, I therefore find it difficult to enter into a discussion with the representative of Greece about – call it – the principal, heavy issues related to the wider issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e259	Jan Arild Ellingsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e262	There is no doubt that Norway has an obligation to assist the population in Haiti in the best possible way. At the same time, it is also a fact that the Norwegian defence is being extended at all ends, from the capacity for the Coast Guard mission to the hospital we have in Chad, which is due to return, to requests for assistance and increased efforts in Afghanistan. At least what I experience is a global challenge to the framework of defence. Now we have a new crisis in Haiti, where we also see the possibility of defence as a contributor. But when the framework is too small, it will be difficult for the defence to provide the assistance you could have provided. Therefore, my question to the Council of State will simply be: Will the Council of State now give greater attention to the role of defence as a service to civil disasters, etc., and will this receive much, much more attention in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e271	The representative of the Ellings really points in an excellent way to the various challenges that a professional and modern defense must face. We can rejoice that the Norwegian defence now appears to be a modern response defense that has dealt with a major migration challenge in the best way, and the long-term plan, adopted here in Stortinget, provides a good framework for this defence process. To give a good picture of how the Defense sees itself, I really don't have a better recommendation to give the Representative Ellingen than to read today's leader in the Evening Post, which gives a very fresh picture of the challenges the Defence Manager sees for himself, and the framework for solving them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e278	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e281	From reading instructions on the defence crisis and challenge, I want to return to the real crisis that was the starting point for Solberg's questions. It is a fact that the situation in the short term is chaotic, unbridled and deeply tragic. But it's going to last for a long time. It is good that the Norwegian Government now assesses short-term action against the UN, which should strengthen its presence – the field kitchen was mentioned, port command too. I want to ask the Secretary of Defense if the Government is now looking with other eyes at a United Nations exposure in Haiti in the longer term. It is such that our field hospital, with its sanitary staff, should return from Chad before the summer. Is this something that the Government can consider as a long-term contribution to the efforts of the United Nations, not least on the humanitarian side of Haiti?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e290	We have now focused on the immediate actions and that we will work with the UN on possible contributions in the longer term. It is important for the Government to support the work of the UN in operations of this nature. Then it is right – as the representative Høybrätten points out – that we have a contribution that includes a field hospital, in Chad. The exposure expiring in April. It is premature to conclude with the possibilities for both facilities and staff. These are staff who have now been out and are due to return. The recruitment situation for this type of staff is demanding, and the overall operation has a cost framework that makes it impossible for me to go deeper into this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e297	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e300	The situation in Haiti is so tragic that I guess we can't fully understand what it's like. It also gives us a different perspective on what security is, and on the idea of security. The left was very pleased with the speech the head of defence gave, a speech in which he raised both environmental challenges and these kinds of challenges as a major security challenge for us in the future. My question to the Minister of Defence is whether we have a defence that is able to make a change that meets the new security challenges. At Haiti, we see a natural disaster, but we also see that the major environmental changes – climate change – we can face can lead to natural disasters that can really threaten the security of people, both close and distant, who can create instability and can also affect the safety of the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e307	The question of whether we can tackle these kinds of challenges makes me think that some very important steps were taken around Norwegian defence for – I think – a decade ago, which has contributed to a great transformation. We now have a modern response – perhaps Europe’s best – and are therefore better than ever able to deal with major unforeseen crises, where, of course, we also work with our allies. The flexibility and competence – and therefore the capacity – that lie in Norwegian defence, make it my belief that we can make valuable contributions in terms of both these kinds of crises and crises of a different nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e312	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e316	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. In the evening post on Sunday we could read about Natasha Pedersen, who had to fight for five years to get a care allowance to care for his disabled daughter. This story is not the only one. The state’s health care services have revealed considerable differences in who is receiving a care allowance to care for their disabled children or other family members, such as those with disabilities. are ME patients, and as to how much care pay is paid. We know that the care pay system is the one of social services with most complaints. In 2008, 35 p.m. of the complaints. Of the 37 complaints all 21 were amended or removed by the county. It is a big problem that people only get what they are entitled to after complaining. This threatens legal certainty both for the caregiver and for caregivers. The Health Inspectorate's report shows that those who have relatives who receive care pay have a great – I would say in many cases enormous – need for assistance. It is deeply unfair that someone gets a care allowance, and others don't. Some even have to move to a municipality that gives more than the one in which they live – in order to manage at all. Will the Government ensure equal access to care pay for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e327	It is quite right, as the representative Davøy says, that there are major differences in the practice of care pay. The government is concerned that those who care for close relatives, such as Disabled children shall have the possibility of receiving a care allowance, as a benefit. Care pay is part of the entire grant and safety network that is there when additional assistance is needed. In particular, this is the case in the case of disabled and close relatives who need additional care. It is worrying if the legislation is practiced very differently from the municipality to the municipality. In the same way, it is the municipalities that practice this code. The government is – as I said – concerned that it should be fair. What is important when we see results shown in the Evening Post is that we focus more on making known the care pay system, and possibly go through the county staff to see how the scheme is practiced from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e336	I'm very surprised at the answer, which gives no indication that you're going to do anything to get more equality. The Soria Moria I declaration stated that the Government would strengthen the care pay system. The Soria Moria II Declaration amended this to the effect that the Government will ‘ review the care pay system’. I interpret this as the government has lowered ambitions – I see the answer from the Council of State also there, because this is what the municipalities are going to take responsibility for, it's going to be fair, and we have to make the arrangement known. No, this arrangement is known. It's very well known. The problem is there are huge inequalities. Is it, in fact, that the government no longer has ambitions, as one had in Soria Moria I, to strengthen the arrangement? Now the Council of State does not even say to review it, but leaves everything to the municipalities. We can't have it like that!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e348	It is not difficult to see that we are going to review the care pay system. Maybe I didn't express myself clearly enough, but it's really in what I'm saying. When we see that there are so different practices, we have to go through how it is practiced from municipality to municipality. When the state governs, it does so very often through the county officials – the county officials can control how the municipalities operate in relation to a code. I am very concerned that that scheme should be practised fairly. I have also seen what was in the evening post in the lead position, that this matter was now on my table. But equally fully, this is a system practised through the municipalities. It is part of the complete apparatus that they should have a safety net in order to care for those who need it. I'm going to promise that we'll go through the scheme to see if it's practiced after the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e357	There will be four follow-up questions – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e360	Many parents with disabled children experience the support system as fragmented and difficult to understand, and spend a lot of time searching out the bureaucracy. In 2005, the Bondevik II government presented a strategy plan for families with disabilities, including: it was proposed to merge various support schemes, including pay for care, in order to simplify and ensure equal rights and equal treatment between these families and of these children. When the Council of State did not express itself clearly enough earlier, as she herself said, I will challenge the Council of State at this point. What is the reason why the Government has not followed up the important proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e365	We know that there are different grant schemes for families with disabled children. I think it is very important that there are different schemes that are designed so that different families can do what they think is best for their own situation and to care for their children. We know that there are different needs, so we also have to have different arrangements. I agree that it may be difficult to be informed in a regulation, but for those who need it, the types of rights that are required must be made known. Clearly, it is important that this be practiced according to what is intended. Care pay is one part of this, but there is a broad regulatory framework for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e372	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e375	When the report became known, I took a little dive into the Storting website and saw that care pay has been discussed in this room countless times over many years. It's the same issues that have been discussed every single time, so the report doesn't really show anything new. In 2008, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to make the scheme State-funded. The government opposed the proposal on the grounds that the scheme was good enough. After this report has been read by the Minister of Health, does she still believe that the system is good enough, or is it such that the Minister of Health will be willing to look at the proposals of the Progress Party with new eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e382	I would like to repeat that care pay is one of several benefits for families or for those who want to care for close relatives who need extra care. At the same time, I am very concerned that this should be a fair arrangement. However, this scheme is as fully located as one of the instruments in the municipalities, and it should also be seen in conjunction with other services provided by the municipalities for those in need of additional care. Now I have just said that we should go through the scheme because we see that it is practised very differently. It's going to be essentially different practice because this is one of several benefits, but we're just as fully aware that when for the same family it turns out that there are different practices from municipality to municipality, there's reason to go through this, and we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e389	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e393	Many parents with severely disabled children have recently lost their care because of changes in Nav practice. When the Minister for Labour and Inclusion takes this up, the Minister for Labour and Inclusion points to care pay as the solution. When the media announces that care pay does not function fairly, the Minister for Health and Health points to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs. When the Minister of Health asks the Stortingen to answer questions about this scheme, the answer is ‘review’. But the whole background to the launch in the media is, of course, the review of the scheme by the Health Authority, which shows that the scheme is not working well enough. What will the Council of State do to ensure that these parents receive the financial support they need in order to implement a training scheme for the children, and of which the children benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e400	As I've tried to say, we're going to go through this system because we see that it's being practiced differently. But it is also important to clarify that this is one of several benefits that can be provided. It is part of a large and wide range of relief measures. The municipalities currently administer this scheme are precisely because they have to be able to adapt it as part of the benefits to, for example: families with disabled children. There are many: Some have reinforced teams at home; they may be personal assistants — there are many kinds of tools to assist a family that has disabled children. Care pay is one of them, but it is clear that when the same family feels that there are different practices from municipality to municipality and you want to continue with the same form of public support, it is not good enough. That's why we're going to go over and see if there's anything we can do to clarify the code better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e405	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e408	In 2007, the Left proposed a model of care pay as a split layer, where the municipalities guaranteed NOK 5000 per year. month and country covered – up to 80 pst. of 6 G. There has been a lot of discussion back and forth about the differences in municipalities, and also within municipalities there are considerable differences. Reports from NOVA and the SSB show that the amounts paid are low, and very many parents with disabled children are struggling, which has been the theme here. Will the Council of State look at the Left's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e415	I think it's important, when it turns out that there's an inequality in the practice of care pay, to go through it and look at how to manage to get into a fairer system. If it is the case that the Storting is going to change the whole solution of care pay, we may have to get back to it in a different context. The current situation is a system practised by the municipalities, and there is no clear answer to what the care allowance should be. It is part of a wide range of instruments to assist, for example: families with disabled children to obtain assistance and support for their daily activities. Then this wide range of instruments, which we hope will meet and help them, becomes a much wider package than just talking about the one issue of care pay. But the fact that it has to be done fairly is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e424	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e427	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. For the Progress Party, the right to live in our own home, to freedom of choice and dignity has been central to everything we do. Care pay, which has been discussed here in the past, is one of several important instruments. Recognizing that some people have extra major disease challenges or disabilities, Stortinget has found it necessary to make resource-intensive services a sprawl layer between the country and the municipality. The current budget results in a cut in the State share. The reasons given by the government have been that costs have increased sharply. When, in several contexts, the Progress Party promotes proposals for state funding of health and care tasks, it is precisely to ensure that all users are given equal opportunities regardless of the economy of each municipality. The Progress Party therefore expects costs to increase. Obviously, the government parties did not have this intention. So the government is now going to take a smaller part of the bill, not just for the current year, but it is going to have retroactive effect for 2009. When the municipalities are about to make their offer, many municipalities have to cut the offer. When they cut in the offer, they also lose more of the grants, and the cuts get dramatic. In Norway’s Handicap Association’s websites, we can read that they are concerned about this deterioration, and express that, among other things, this is the case. are able to push forward institutional forms of housing. What is the reason why those who are most dependent on care services from their municipality became a balancing post for the Government? And has the government considered the danger that this economic cut could push forward unwanted results, as the Norwegian disability federation expresses concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e442	That's what the questioner started with, that the right to live in owner-occupied dwellings is important. It is important for the individual, and it is important for those who also need extra care and extra help. It's not like the government has made the most helpful a balancing item. We are concerned that they will get the help they need, so that they can live in owner-occupied dwellings or live at home with other relatives if they want to. With regard to the conversion of the grant to particularly resource-intensive users, there is a scheme under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which has now been transferred to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for their overall responsibility. But it's not meant to be a system of salting in any way. On the contrary, it is good that we can provide assistance to the users where they are, even when they are in their own home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e451	We have been dealing with the anti-discrimination law for some time. The most basic thing in it was equivalency and equal opportunities. I want to show you an example of what the conversion does. On the Bergen municipality website, we can read that the conversion of the state contribution to resource-intensive services will represent an income deficit of between 12 million. NOK 15 million. NOK – and 12 million. kr or 15 mill. kr means a lot of care. 75 pst. of those who receive these services in Bergen, people with developmental disabilities. Then my question becomes simple: Does the Council of State think that people with developmental disabilities have been given good services?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e458	With regard to those who have developmental disabilities or other types of disability, I am very concerned that they will receive good public services and good public services, as well as the support they need in order to function as fully as possible in our society. It is that we can be born differently, but what is important is that we try to help everyone get a quality of life that allows them to provide the best possible and to live the best possible in a community, in a home or where they wish. I don't want to answer in any other way than that I think these are people who deserve both support and attention, and they get that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e467	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e471	One of the reasons given by the Government for this unforeseeable $300 million cut. kr for resource-intensive services was that costs had increased, and we know that costs have increased because many of these users have become sicker with age. The municipalities have also become more attractive in accounting reporting and in taking individual decisions, in line with what the Stortinget previously asked for. An important political signal from the Stortinget has been that we should limit the institutionalisation of children, young people and adults under the age of 67, and therefore many municipalities have deliberately invested in building up good, but then resource-intensive home services for these users. Does the Council of State see that the dramatic action taken by the Government may prevent the institutionalisation of mentally impaired persons and others in need of comprehensive and complex services?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e476	The contribution from municipalities to resource-intensive users is a scheme transferred from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. It is those who administer this scheme now, and it is those who deal with the scheme towards the municipalities. It is clearly important to limit institutionalisation. But it's not that the municipalities should decide that someone should go to the institution. When, for example: in the case of children with disabilities, it is for families themselves to make an assessment of how they can obtain the best possible apparatus to help them — whether there are grant schemes, reinforcement of auxiliary teams that can come and assist them at home, or relief services, which are important to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e483	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e486	Many citizens who need comprehensive services want the system of citizen-led personal assistants, precisely because they want to be boss in their own lives and not depend on a municipality deciding how to organize their everyday life, a situation that most of us would not have wanted. The Bondevik II Government thus proposed to legislate the system of civil society personal assistants. On written question 17 October 2005, Health Minister Sylvia Brustad replied to me that the Stoltenberg government would follow up on this, and soon come back with a law enforcement of a citizen-run personal assistant. It is now almost five years ago, so that the definition of ‘soon’ in this government is quite comprehensive. When will Stortinget receive treatment a law that guarantees a personal right to a citizen-run personal assistant?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e493	Once again, I would say that for those who need it, and for those who live a good life with a personal assistant, that's good. This might be a good help for many people who might need it. But equally full, this is part of a larger spectrum of auxiliaries, and it also has to be practiced afterwards. It could be a good solution for some, it could be part of a solution for some, but you have to see this in a broader context and in a slightly larger perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e498	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e501	In my home municipality of Skien, which the Council of State visited yesterday in connection with the opening of the SAMBA project, it has been working for a long time to get a good offer for the resource-intensive services, and they have been so competent that people have moved to the municipality because of the good offer that they have been able to establish there. In the ski and municipality of Norway, the joy was great when the government in 2008 created predictability around the financing of these services, and great of course was also the disappointment when the government decided to send a bill of $300 million. kr again, and remove this predictability. The municipality of Schiene got an extra bill of between 6 and 7 million. kr. My simple question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State believe that there will be more and better resource-intensive services in the Ski and Municipality of Norway, too, when the Government chooses to send such a bill and once again creates unforeseeable funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e510	There is once again a question about the funding of the grant to the resource-intensive users, and as I said, the scheme was formerly under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It has been transferred to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and I am sure that the municipalities will also offer this group a good offer. The ski and Porsgrund and the hospital in Telemark are a very good example of how to set up a very good and unique offer for disabled children, both in terms of relief, guidance and treatment – and with a very good help and support for the rest of the family. To the head of the question, about moving the bills, I would say, the system was under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This is now under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and there is no need for users to be treated worse than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e519	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e522	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. The focus is on the need to take many different measures to reduce sick leave in Norway. This is one of the major challenges you face and with which there is a cross-political agreement to do something. If an employee gets sick and wants to get back to work more quickly, and if the employer chooses to buy private health care for the employee to get a quick treatment and return to work quickly, the employer is penalised for it, for example. an operation has cost and the employee has to pay income tax on what the operation costs. This was a criminal tax on reducing sick leave introduced by the Stoltenberg government in 2006. For example, Heidi Hakim tells me that she had a wrist disorder in both hands. As a case handler, it is not very good, so she was sick. She was waiting for a specialist's examination for a few weeks. Then the operating date was postponed, until it became clear that it could take about a year before she could expect to fix the problem. More and more people experience this. Health cows have increased by 60,000 during this government. The employer paid for the procedure at a private hospital in Oslo, and she was back at work after two months. The Health Minister himself can imagine what this means socio-economically, what it means for the individual worker, and what it means for the employer. I know that this government suffers from private allergy, but can you see that removing this tax can help get people back to work faster, reduce health cows and reduce sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e533	It has become a mantra to tell about an increased health queue. At the same time, there has never been any treatment for more patients than now. Equally full it is that when waiting time increases, though very little, but something, it is not a situation that we are satisfied with. That is why I have also asked for action to be taken. In the case of Racism, to take action to speed up the return to work, such as treatment, the representative Höie is also aware that, in this context, private institutions are also used to provide health care. It allows people to get back to work faster. However, it is a condition, and that is that the private institution must have an agreement with one of the health establishments in that context. But it's not like we're allergic to using private. As a public health subsidy, it is important. It's an important contributor and it'll still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e541	It is of little help to the 60,000 who are in health queues, and many of those who are sick while in health queues, that the Minister of Health boasts that more people are receiving health care, as long as health cows are increasing and waiting time increases. A clear expression of this is that the sale of private health insurance has increased by 175 pst. since this government took over. This is probably a very clear expression that the population is not satisfied with access to healthcare. My question to the Minister of Health, since she did not answer my first question, is: What is the reason for health policy to have a criminal tax on both workers and employers who choose to be paid out of the health queue to get back to work more quickly? What is the reason for such a criminal tax on sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e548	It was presented as a criminal tax, but it is not a question of this being a criminal tax. I have also seen that the sale of private health insurance has increased. This is a situation in which one cannot simply say that one is happy, because we are going to have a public health service in Norway to care for those who get sick, and to provide help when they need it. And so is it that of those in line, there are a lot of people waiting for outpatient treatment. Those who are seriously ill get help quickly. The vast majority of hospitalisations are hospitalisations. So there's a sense that there are long queues. But then there's someone waiting too long. So we're going to go into it and see what we can do. But first of all, we need to take advantage of the public health service, where, after all, we are funding the specialist health service with DKK 100 billion every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e555	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e558	The parties have now merged to find a new IA agreement. In this context, the action to be taken is discussed. The government has already announced that there may be some inadequacies on the employer’s side, i.e. that employers are also given greater responsibility for the employees financially. Here we discuss a scheme where employers ask to have an opportunity to simply not be punished for providing health services to employees – a scheme that benefits employees. It should be a double bonus for the minister and for the government as a contribution to the IA agreement. My question is whether the Minister will be involved in the IA negotiations that this is a good way to get employers to take on increased responsibility for the sick leave of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e563	I have also seen that there has been a lot of discussion in the media about this new IA agreement. In any case, it is not that measures in connection with it are going to be, I kept on saying, notified in the Great Britain Question Time. But what is clear is that we need to look at many different types of measures. Those who want to get completely out of the system and pay for an operation in Norway are free to do so. But I am concerned that public health should be so good that it is not necessary. Then I've also said that in the case of private service providers, we want to use them as a subsidy to the government. However, if they are to enter into the government grant system, it must be through agreements with regional health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e570	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e573	I'm glad that the Right now also focuses on this topic. The Progress Party has put forward proposals on this earlier and has been largely alone. We have also made a proposal to be treated now, to exempt private health insurance from employer's taxes and personal tax, as well as training cards paid by the employer and the treatment of sickness paid by the employer. The instruments for this lie with the Minister of Finance. However, we know that the costs, if not stimulated by health prevention and disease control measures, will end up at the Minister of Health's table. The Social Democrats in Sweden have understood this dynamics. My question will be about the Minister of Health sharing the views of the Progress Party and Swedish Social Democrats that such tax-reduction measures can be an important tool, both in health-prevention work and in reducing sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e580	In terms of health prevention, there are many other measures I would like to take first. It goes on measures that we can do something about quite immediately. There are restrictions on tobacco; there is alcohol; there is a wide range of measures to improve the health of the population. As far as fiscal instruments are concerned, we are not taking a stand at this point. With regard to the IA agreement, the negotiations that are taking place, and the work done in both expert committees and the other samples that have been set down, we will continue to work on this in the future, and then we will get back to what is the result of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e587	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e590	There are almost daily e-mails from worried employees in hospitals about patients who are frustrated by the situation around the country. All report tight economics and cuts in patients’ supply. When the waiting times for treatment last year increased, and the feedback on cut flows into these days, the waiting times will not decrease this year either, as I see it. This gives unnecessary sick leave. So we see that the government's policy means that the health sector is helping to increase sick leave more than reducing it. At the same time, there is free capacity in a number of private institutions around the country. My question is whether the Council of State will at least use them, with the aim of reducing sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e597	After all, we use private to reduce sick leave. Agreements have been concluded with private individuals, which should be complementary to public health in order to reduce sick leave. That's why we have, among other things, this project, called Raskerer back, which the representative Davøy knows very well. Then it is said that it is cut around the health system. It's if someone's spent too much money. That is a reduction. However, the budgets of regional health companies this year have not only an embedded growth in diet and wages, but also a real growth, which is very well known by the representative of Davøy. So it's not cut in the budgets; there's an increase in the budgets, and there's going to be an increase in patient treatment. My steering signal also to health care companies is that the waiting times are going down. It's going to focus on working with it all this year, because it's not good enough when it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e607	With that, the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e613	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries who is responsible. Question 8, from the representative, Mr Lødemel, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e627	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘9. Several sites in Norway were discovered in December 2009 as a ‘light phenomenon’, which later proved to be a Russian rocket that was destroyed or otherwise malfunctioned. The alarming thing about the matter has been that from the Norwegian side it took time to find out what had happened, with the result that there was uncertainty about the facts. Furthermore, there is clearly not particularly well-functioning alert procedures between Norway/NATO and Russia in such cases. Does the Council of State see the need to review current routines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e636	I would first like to stress that the accident with this rocket did not represent any threat to Norwegian territory. The launch occurred hundreds of miles from Norway, and the missile orbit went east. Weapons testing and testing in this area is often carried out. It is also known that several previous faults have occurred in testing this type of rocket. The special thing this time was that there was a fault high up in the sky, and that the event also became visible from Norway. The Russian authorities had notified the Russian public of the launch of the rocket in advance, and the defense followed the launch. From the Norwegian side, therefore, it did not take long to find out what had caused the light phenomenon. The defence was experienced by the media and private individuals on each occasion. The defense went out publicly with its information, but first the day after the event. I understand that there is a great demand for information from the audience in connection with such events, and in this case the defense acted too late. The defence must strive to provide quality-proof and coordinated information much faster if something similar is to happen in the future. I understand that the head of defence is also in agreement with this. Norway has an agreement with Russia on the incident that Sea to avoid critical military situations at sea. However, Norway has not entered into an agreement with Russia that obliges them to notify us of this incident. However, it is natural for the responsible authorities to publish what has happened when such incidents occur. It has also been done by the Russian Ministry of Defence, which officially confirmed the action taken the day after the Russian Ministry of Defence confirmed it. Norwegian and Russian military authorities are in good daily contact. As part of this contact, alert and information exchange procedures are continuously evaluated and improved. I don't see that this event requires any specific review of these warning procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e649	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that the defence has an improvement potential when it comes to warning, because when something like that happens, and it is observed, and you don't have an explanation for it, people are naturally worried. I would think that in North Norway – historically – there are extra concerns, as you have a superpower in the immediate vicinity. In this way, I think it is important to focus on providing information to the population, precisely to prevent something escalating that does not need to escalate – so as to avoid unnecessary anxiety. It's also a quality in itself, so in that way I think it's positive. Another thing is that we shouldn't go back so many years – then we had a launch from Andeya where the Russians reacted because they didn't quite know what was going on. So there's been other episodes before. Now I see that the Council of State said that there is no formal agreement between Norway and Russia on alerts. Does the Council still not see the need for a formal agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e656	I understand, as the representative Ellingsen also pointed out, that people reacted to this. Just because it is so important to avoid contributing to unnecessary unrest, it was important to move quickly with information. That is why I have given a clear signal to the defence that in this case, as the representative of Ellingen also pointed out, it is a clear potential for improvement. I have also explained the procedures for the exchange of information that exist, that this cooperation works in a good way in practice and that there is therefore no basis in this case for addressing the Russians' need for changed procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e661	Thank you, of course. It would also have been tempting to ask whether NATO is unconcerned about the relationship between Norway and Russia in that way? Norway is also part of NATO, and that means that when things happen that affect us, it also affects NATO and the other NATO countries. Do we have similar good inward warning procedures? When the Council of State said that the Ministry of Defence was informed here, did they notify inwards so that there was no disturbance and concern elsewhere within the alliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e666	It is not, as far as I have been able to bring in experience, established any specific alert procedures between Russia and NATO related to such test shots. However, there is an agreement between Russia and the United States. The agreement includes the warning of sample launch of intercontinental rockets and does not apply to subsequent reporting on whether a launch was successful or not. In this case, I would like to stress that we did not have any information. That's how we handled it, and how fast we took it out to the public, as there was reason to go through, and that thus triggered the need for a clearer signal from my side, as I saw it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e674	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The government writes in its Soria Moria statement that no local hospital is to be closed, but no mention is made of the contents of a local hospital. We see from the media that it per. Today, a debate is taking place in several places in the country where there are proposals for functional benefits and also for eliminating food supply and emergency preparedness. One such example is the debate in Health Nordmøre and Romesdal. Can the Council explain which services and personnel a local hospital should contain?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e683	The discussion on the place of local hospitals in healthcare is not new. The hospital structure was already centrally located in St.meld. No 9 for 1974–1975, Hospital extension etc. in a regional health system. The country was to be divided into five regions with local, central and regional hospitals. Local hospitals were to meet the need for common services in internal medicine and surgery, often including childbirth assistance, and with x-ray, laboratory and anaesthetic services as support functions. The hospital structure and the concept of local hospitals have changed over time as a result of changes in transport and communication, housing patterns and professional development. Less hospitals are often referred to as local hospitals, while larger hospitals have both local hospital functions and more specialised functions. There is no clear definition of which services and personnel groups a local hospital should have. According to the current national health plan, 2007-2010, local hospital services are to focus on the needs of large disease groups, for patients in need of close follow-up and for treatments that do not require significant acute competence. This applies, inter alia, to: patients with chronic diseases and sick elderly with complex disorders. In examining the revised national budget for 2008, the Stortinget joined the Government’s statement on the framework for the development of local hospitals in the overall treatment chain, with particular emphasis on emergency functions. In the 2010 mission papers of regional health companies, I have pointed out that there is a need to continue the development and conversion of the provision of specialist health services, in order to face changes in morbidity, changes in age and population composition, new medical technologies and changes in patient roles. Work on better work sharing between hospitals shall be continued. For the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A happy event, Stortinget supported a proposal that regional health businesses – in cooperation with the municipalities concerned – should draw up multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted plans for the provision of food in the region. Regional health establishments are informed that any plans for structural changes in maternity care must wait until such plans have been drawn up. It has previously been informed by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in reply to written questions to Stortinget. Regional health establishments shall be allowed a period of 1 July to draw up such plans. I am aware that regional health companies have started processes to develop and convert specialist healthcare, including functional sharing between hospitals. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government opens up the possibility for some hospitals to do work tasks other than today, including: in the context of the Interaction Reform. Today's decentralised hospital services are to be maintained. This will ensure proximity to emergency services and food services, even if such services are not provided in all hospitals. Through Prop. 1 S I have notified the Stortinget that the National Health and Care Plan will be submitted in 2010. The plan is an instrument for realising and further developing national health and care policies. The interaction reform must be specified in the health and care plan. It is natural for the future role of local hospitals to be discussed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e698	I can assure the Council of State that my 12 years in the Health and Welfare Committee/Social Committee means that I have some insight into the various functions that hospitals actually perform. But unfortunately, the Council of State does not answer the question. My question to the Council of State is: What functions should a local hospital have in order to call it a local hospital? And not least, what kind of staff are they supposed to be? The background to my question is primarily related to the debate related to Nordfjord Hospital and Volda Hospital. These are Nordmøre and Romsdal health companies, where proposals for emergency preparedness have now been made in Kristiansund, as a result of the transfer of the offer to Molde. The background to my question is that the security people feel is related to the local hospital, because the elective surgery is not a problem. It can be done anywhere, because then you have time to change. Can the Council say anything more about the functions and types of staff a local hospital should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e707	There is no clear definition of the functions to be performed in a local hospital. And as I say, this is also something you have to see in connection with the development that has been in the health sector. It's been a very big development, as the representative after twelve years knows very well. What I fully agree with is that it is important that what we do creates security for the population. But the ambulance service today is a completely different ambulance service from what it used to be. Many of the emergency services are already in the ambulance, because in some ambulances you can simply operate telemedicine and get instructions already there, so that emergency treatment starts already in the ambulance. So there are also different levels of acute functions. But what's important, when we're going to have competent, highly qualified hospitals, is that there must be a certain amount of both population and personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e714	After the government's answer, I wonder why the Soria Moria Declaration says that no local hospital should be laid down, because you haven't even considered what these hospitals are actually going to offer to provide security to the population, because it's a matter of safety when the accident or accident is out. There is, of course, a great deal of demand, especially when it comes to removing emergency response. The question then is, how good is our offer? The councils are also familiar with, I would assume, the criticism that has previously come to the emergency chain and the emergency wards in the hospitals, precisely on the potential for improvement. Especially in the case of myocardial infarction and stroke, it is important to start treatment quickly. Will the Council of State come to Stortinget as quickly as possible and define what a local hospital should offer, so that the population is given security and not living in uncertainty — whether it is such that most of the offers can be removed, and should it still be called a hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e723	If acute functions were one specific definition, it wasn't that difficult. But, as I say, progress has been made towards the onset of emergency functions and emergency treatment already in the ambulance. In fact, it is very important that qualified ambulance staff can also make assessments of, in cooperation with doctors and qualified personnel, where it is important that this patient comes, depending on the diagnosis he has. That's an extra security. When the emergency function starts already in the ambulance, there has been a development where there are many different levels of emergency function, and all kinds of levels of emergency function we can't have anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e731	This question, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e734	The question is therefore addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Development, which reads as follows: ‘In the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland is U-864 – a German submarine with 67 tonnes of mercury. The Government changed its position in 2007 from coverage to upliftment, and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast now assesses the cancellation project based on, among others. on a fresh Quality Assurance of Management Data and Estimate of Cost of Selected Project Options, KS2 Report. The removal of 67 tonnes of mercury from the sea is an important environmental issue for Norway. Environmental considerations domestic and Norway's reputation as an environmental nation internationally strongly advocates the raising of the submarine and the removal of mercury. How are environmental policy considerations taken into account in raising the U-864?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e743	Initially, I will first make a small correction regarding the facts in the case. The representative of Sortevik writes in his question that the Government changed its position in 2007 from cover to cancellation. The correct thing is that in February 2007 it was decided that the wreckage of U-864 and the contaminated sediments should be covered, but in the light of open consultations in the Stortinget, it was decided in spring 2007 that the lifting option should be further explored. On 10 November 2008, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency delivered its report with recommended measures to combat the spread of mercury pollution from U-864. The report assesses that both the lifting and cover option will produce the desired environmental effects by successful implementation. However, the cover option was considered to be the least risky measure. The coastal body therefore recommended this measure. On 29 January 2009, the Government announced that it was in favour of a lifting of U-864 after an overall assessment. At the same time, it was decided that an external quality assurance should be carried out. It is the consideration of the environment that is the main focus of the Government in this matter. In the KS2 report, which I got handed over on 16 December last year, there is criticism of the current cancellation project. The conclusion of the external consultants is that there is doubt that the project can be managed in a sufficiently controlled manner. This is also unfortunate in terms of safety and the environment. The Quality Assurance Report is now being reviewed in the Ministry, and the Government aims to return to Stortinget with a proposition on the further process in the matter in the near future. In the government's assessment of the further process in the matter, the environmental considerations will be very central. The representative can therefore be absolutely sure that environmental considerations will be taken into account in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e750	Thanks for the answer. The question is therefore addressed to the Minister for the Environment, who often has opinions on most environmental issues, and often opinions that are expressed loudly and clearly on behalf of the Government. Does this Council of State, which is right, consider that there are no environmental policy implications if the Government chooses to lift or remove or cover?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e757	The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is also an environmental department. We have a very great responsibility for the environment in the sea, and it is a responsibility I take most seriously. The most important thing for me and for the Government in this matter is to protect the environment, and that this is handled in a good way, so that neither the marine food industry, the environment around Fedje nor the population suffers from this. That's what's crucial, and it's the whole government behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e762	Thank you again for your answer. I would remind you that in addition to the four tenderers who have made a proposal for a solution in a tendering round, two other internationally recognised suppliers have assured the Ministry that raising can be done in a good and safe way. However, this Council of State, which is now correct, is also right in relation to the fisheries policy and, in so far as the export economic perspective in this matter is concerned. Of course, it has an impact on Norway and Norway’s reputation as a fishing nation, and it is also linked to a large volume of exports, how Norway’s waters are perceived as pure waters. Does the Council have any idea of how the removal of mercury will safeguard Norway's reputation as just a fishing nation and the reputation of the fishery products that Norway exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e771	As the representative points out, the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast has a great responsibility for the maritime food industry and its reputation. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is very aware that it is going to be very little until a matter can become problematic with consumers. Consumers are very aware that everything that is taken up from the sea, first of all, is very clean and safe to eat, and also that it is sustainably managed. This is a matter that goes very far into it. Of course, the fact that we handle it in a good way environmentally is crucial to the reputation of the marine food industry. But the most important thing is that we do it in a good way to protect the environment. That's what the government is now working on, and will come back to Stortinget in the near future with a proposition that tells us about the further work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e779	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The very tragic church fire on 29 May 2009 in Våler in Hedmark is still unsolved. Despite hardworking and very skilled working, it is not easy with limited resources to resolve the matter. A church fire is special and affects everyone regardless of their relationship with the church. Will the Council of State contribute additional resources, so that the matter is resolved as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e788	Let me begin by saying that there is reason to give great honor to all those in Våler – whether the police or others – who have set up for their church, especially after the tragic fire we saw, who destroyed a very important cultural memory for the whole valley – I would say – a pretty church that meant far too many. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to pay tribute both to the municipality and to the police locally and state for the efforts they have made at a time when the Glamdals region has in fact been struggling with an incredible number of difficult things. This is a very tragic matter. Clearly, a church fire affects most of the community. I have also said in the past that it is with great sorrow that we received the message that the 200-year-old church was burned down. Taking into account that Våler Municipality has been affected by many difficult issues, this becomes extra difficult. It's sad for all those who have found security and harmony in the church, that it's gone. From the Ministry of Justice's side, we have submitted to the Directorate of Police the question asked by the Grandfather and received the following information from the Chief of Police in Hedmark, which determines how to use the resources and how to investigate: «It is the Solør holding that has the primary responsibility for the investigation, and the case for Hedmark Police District has been prioritised as strongly as possible. This means, in practice, that almost all available resources have been used in the case for periods. However, in church fires as in other major cases, it is clear that even greater resources could always be used, especially in the initial phase. Whether this could lead to a clarification of the matter is at best uncertain. In general, a certain relationship must be assumed between resource use and the likelihood of disclosure. However, there are still examples showing that there is no necessary context. Regardless of the extent of resource use, the possibility of clarification will largely depend on the existence in the research material of technical and/or tactical evidence which may lead to an appeal. It is based on these assumptions that the chief of police considers it uncertain whether an additional resource use could provide a different research result.’ The Police Directorate allocates the budget to the police districts in the light of the annual budget adopted by the Stortinget. It's only been a few weeks since the Stortinget adopted the time budget for the police and officers' Senate, with the current budget increase of SEK 1.3 billion, a record recording at the Police College with 720 students – a large part of whom is going to be in the vicinity, in Kongswinger – and a continuation of 460 new civilian positions to the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e806	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which initially was a compliment to the municipality and to those who have worked hard. And of course, we're dividing it. We live in each of our neighbouring municipalities of the municipality, Våler, so we know this well, both the Minister of Justice and the undersigned. But I did not really get an answer to my question. So it was: does the Council see any possibility of providing extra resources so that this matter can be resolved? I do not believe that the Council of State, the undersigned or anyone at all wants the matter to remain unsolved, or, in the worst case, to be dismissed. Does the Council of State have any opportunity to participate and contribute, in addition to the resources already available in such a county office or district, to clarify the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e813	I may have been a little unclear in my first answer, but the answer to the question is no, and especially considering that the chief of police is so clear that he sees it as very uncertain whether there is any connection between resource use and clarification of this matter. When you do criminal investigations, it's clear that sometimes it can be difficult to find evidence, and it won't really depend on how much resources you put in. I would say that, in general, when it comes to investigation, the big challenge for the Norwegian police is now when we spend so much money on the police and train so many policemen, how we organize the investigation, and how we organize the police as such. When it comes to dealing with such difficult things as: have been in the Glamdal region, with killings recently – luckily it is clear, it looks like – and as church fires and some other heavy things, the work that the department is now doing on the possibilities of reforming the police, targeting results, will be as important as discussing how much resources to spend on the police, taking into account that so much is allowed. In the case of Hedmark in particular, Hedmark police districts from 2003 to 2009 have had 30 pst. growth in its budgets. There are, among other things: In the last year, 17 new civilian posts have been created, and significant growth has been achieved in the last year to ensure that civilians and newly trained police officers are given their jobs. But that's probably not what it says about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e822	I thank the Council of State for the concreteization of a no, as I understand it. The Council of State boasts that there has been a growth in resources and the number of posts, but there has probably also been a growth in the number of unsolved cases. We can read what it says in the Glåmdalen newspaper of 19 January: «Janne-Mari is one of the 5,779 unresolved issues.» And it goes on to say, «She is not alone: every day in Hedmark, 16 crimes are committed that are not resolved.» So every day 16 new crimes are committed. When you have limited resources, it might be hard to solve all the issues, as we understand here. All things are important to those who are involved, but a church fire I would say is extra important, because it affects everyone in a community. It affects everyone to a large or small extent, in any case. Therefore, I had hoped with my question that we could have raised the matter, and that the Council of State could have contributed to saying yes to increased resources right in this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e831	It's a little unclear to me how the representative deals with the fact here. So here we have a situation where the police say that it is very uncertain whether the use of resources has any bearing on the fact that this has not been clarified. If you're facing serious data crime, assault pictures or whatever it is, it would be very important that we get a good tool to solve it, for example. the batch is opposed to the introduction of a data storage Directive. Without that, we won't be able to solve things. Then it's not primarily about resources. This is also the case in the case of serious criminal cases. Whether it's killing, church fire or other kinds of events, it can be so hard to find the perpetrator, and it's not necessarily related to resource use. But when discussing the use of resources for Hedmark, I have to say that it is gratifying that we are increasing the resources of Hedmark as we do, both in civil and police positions. There is much more to it than the Progress Party contributed when they made government budgets together with the bourgeois parties. I guess it's also given the statement that we saw last year, that the clearance rate for Hedmark grew in the first six months to 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e841	«On Friday 8 January, the store Life health care in Vadsø was raided for the fifth time in a relatively short time. So far, all cases are attributed on grounds of the position of the evidence, despite the fact that the store holders have gained a good knowledge of suspected perpetrators. This Friday, the police were contacted after an accident on a daylight day. The police stated on the enquiry that they would look at the matter on Monday, three days after. Does the Council of State consider this to be a proper prioritisation and treatment of a police notification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e848	Once a criminal offence has been committed, the police's follow-up to the specific case will be regarded as an investigation. The investigation of individual cases in criminal matters is governed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, chaired by the National Attorney. In these questions, the national lawyer is not subject to any instruction authority from me, i.e. the Minister of Justice, nor is there any reporting to the Ministry on individual cases. Investigation and prosecution in Norway are not politically overthrown, I think we should be very happy about that. It is the state attorney and, where appropriate, the national lawyer who will be properly addressed for complaints about police investigation proceedings, and it is also those who are able to impose requirements in relation to the handling of individual cases. As Minister of Justice, under the law, I do not have any authority to instruct in individual cases, I have to be careful to assess the handling of the specific case. It may be the subject of a complaint and may be the subject of legal proceedings. That's why we should be far away from going into it. An assessment by myself would easily be seen as political interference in a single case — which would not conform to the principles of our system of criminal proceedings. However, on the occasion of the question, I have asked the national lawyer to provide an information on the facts underlying the question as to whether the premises drawn up by the questioner in his question are correct. It is understood that the perpetrator of an act of unjustified gain takes an object, for example: money, from another person, through the use of violence or threats, or by putting someone out of a position for defence, cf. Section 267 of the Criminal Code. As far as the police are aware, there is no information that would indicate that this has been an accident, as the questioner describes it as. The police have not registered the robbery of the Life store in Vadsø. On the other hand, the police have investigated four serious thefts between 26 May 2005 and 29 November 2008, a failure – I repeat a breakdown – 22 June 2009, and a theft has been reported from the store on 8 January this year – a theft. The latter time is what's mentioned in the question, and I'm assuming that it's this event that's at the root of the question. As regards the incident on 8 January, it has been stated that the police approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" I received a notification of the theft of NOK 2000 from the store earlier on the day. It is stated that the notifier said that three Russians had come in, but that there could also be others who had taken the money. The notifier was told to report the matter on Monday after. The police have so far not received any notification from the store. The police report that the investigation procedure has been carried out and that a site investigation has been carried out in all the cases reported. There was also an assessment of the call-out and on-site investigation in the last case, but the information received by the police was considered to be too vague. The State Attorney's statement shows the problems faced by the police when the details that may be the basis for the investigation are deficient or non-existent. The Advocate General then wrote in his statement that, in this case, ‘the representative of the Grandfather may appear to be misinformed’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e867	I thank you for your answer. It is very good that the Minister of Justice, as such, has taken an initiative to look at the matter. But since he has such great respect for the police in Vadsø and believes that they have such great credibility in this matter, it can be stated that the police on Monday went out and claimed that there were only two reviews from the store Life health food in Vadsø, even if you can actually prove black on white that there have been five reviews. Then you might want to get to a polemics if this has to be an rank or if it's a gross theft. What is essential is that the police actually have a duty to provide the citizens of our society with some degree of security. Does the Minister of Justice think that the holder of this store has been given security in relation to his/her situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e876	I have to deal with what the police tell us about, and since I can't go in and assess the investigation criteria, whether they are good or bad, or take the initiative for further investigation, I have to say that the information we get from the police is quite different from that on which the representative based his question. If you want to draw up a debate on citizens' protection from the police, I have to say that this seems to me to be a fairly weak starting point, all the time – to repeat it – there are four serious thefts in the period 26 May 2005 to 29 November 2008. ‘Ranet’, as the representative describes it, was a notification of a theft, and no notification has been received from the store so far. A prerequisite for the police to function is to get a report for this relationship. If this is true, I guess I think the representative should also take a round with his premiscuous suppliers on the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e881	We're always going to do that. But it may not be so strange that a store does not return a review when it has been done over and over again over several years. Nothing has been followed up. We go back to May last month, in the same police district, a 14–15-year-old girl was brutally knocked down from behind – no follow-up from the police. Then it goes one month, and then the same thing happens again. This will be posted on YouTube. Then the police go to action. The last event could have been saved if the police had responded to the first report. Here we again – time and time again – experience reports where the police do not go in and get a case solved. It is clear that this breaks down trust with the citizens of society on the one hand. But it is also the case that the police on the other hand depend on having a good dialogue with their own citizens when they are going to settle matters. Because without having a good dialogue, it is very difficult for the police to resolve matters. Does the Minister of Justice agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e893	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e901	‘The last Strasak figures show a significant increase in the number of gross thefts from the villa, cabin and shop. The reason can be explained to a large extent by the lack of control of travelling gangs from among others. I will now redefine what it says here, which I have called Eastern blocland; I will call the Eastern European country – it is a little more reverent. ‘Besides increased police investigation, police cooperation, more police and border control, how do the Council of State see that this type of profit crime can be more effectively prevented by reducing or eliminating the economic benefits of this type of crime for criminals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e908	The key to ensuring people’s security and combating crime is to achieve effective and targeted action against criminal environments, both through investigations and through the organisation of criminal proceedings and criminal execution. I believe that it is a very precautionary element that the penalty is also enforced, and that those who commit criminal offences and get banned entry are important in this way. This is particularly true of the source of crime in foreign criminal environments. This crime is largely motivated by profit, and it is therefore important to pay attention to both good intelligence and analysis in order to ensure the seizure of values and, as the questioner also addresses, the withdrawal of dividends — first seizure and then withdrawal. Preventing and combating profit-based crime as part of organised criminal activities is a priority task for the police. This is reflected in the budget proposal for the current year. We spend money on it, and we have taken the initiative to establish what we have called the effort force. It is also clear from the national lawyer’s priorities that this is a central priority in the year in which we now live. The government has also shown that it is a goal to go more to the main axis of profit-motivated crime, namely the money, and to a greater extent the proceeds of criminal acts. A number of measures have been put in place to achieve what is now apparent, an increase in the number of withdrawals and the increase in the volume of them. It varies a little bit from year to year, depending on large and small withdrawals, but it's absolutely vital that we get to it. When it comes to those who travel around the country, we see that it's often very little to go in there and then, in addition to the profits you like to get, so maybe we don't get the big numbers here. However, it is very important to do so – it is an important prevention measure. The police directorate and the national lawyer, in cooperation with Kripos – at our request – have ensured coordination of efforts against mobile organised crime, including the necessary cooperation between the police districts and the police. The 2010 draft budget proposes the establishment of 45 annual works to strengthen efforts against this type of criminal. These are posts in the so-called intervention force, which have been proposed between Kripos, UP, Oslo Police District and Hedmark Police District. It will significantly strengthen these efforts in terms of resources. Next to this comes the border effort, which is now being established. I am glad that 30 new posts are being created in Eastfold. It is a very important prevention measure to prevent people from entering the country. I would also like to point out that it is absolutely essential if we are to be heavily rusted, that we have good opportunities, among other things. using DNA, as we see, is of great importance in detecting international crime. It is also important for prevention to be able to track down, among other things. traffic data, so the debate on the Data Storage Directive is also an important element in achieving organised crime and preventing it better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e923	I am impressed that the Council of State is able to read out the state budget in 3 minutes, but that was a good explanation! There is no disagreement from the Right that it is important to bet on investigation, and that one should prevent by actually clarifying more. This is why it is problematic to have such a low percentage of information, for example. in Rome, from which I come, in addition to Oslo. And I don't have any particular belief that you're going to investigate so much more on the basis of the budget that exists – but enough about it. Several parts of the business community want closer and better cooperation with the authorities, and feel that they are not being heard in relation to what they experience as a major problem, namely profitability. One of the proposals which forms part of the insurance industry, inter alia: has come up with the need to set up a wide-ranging fund-raising crime committee to improve cooperation between private and public authorities to prevent this type of crime. So next to everything that's good in the budget -- that's also right-wing, plus a little bit more -- will the Council of State still be opposed to a separate profit-criminal selection? And will the Council of State continue to oppose the acquisition of the website ‘Examined’, which can contribute to the strong prevention of the crime I have raised on my question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e932	There are several elements of prevention besides investigation that I pointed out. I just want to stress when the representative Oktay Dahl might have been somewhat pessimistic because we can't get a number of things up, that it's a fact that in 2009 you've just set "all hour high" for how many people are caught up in these kinds of cases. We have also seen that there has been a decline in the areas where efforts have been made. It has had a preventative effect. That's why we want to do more of that. So I think it's an unusually important prevention that maybe you get a faster focus on broadcasting, so that people don't get to be here in the country, than just focusing on the efforts around atoning. We have to have both. But the broadcasting aspect – I have stressed that many times, especially during the past few weeks – is important. I hope the representative has registered that we are doing it. When it comes to working with business, I see it as good. We've had many common points and we're also sharing good ideas on how to solve this. We have not decided whether to have such a sample as the representative outlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e941	I asked two questions. One was answered so far. The second was for the Review website. Is it possible for the Council of State to answer that in concrete terms? It's pretty concrete to answer. But to the policy of asylum: the Council of State has promised that he will get tougher. That came in the answer now. Recognises that the efforts that are now being made are overtime in relation to a failed asylum policy, a failure in integration policies and in relation to, for example: Any of the crime developments we've seen, including in terms of profitability? But the most important thing is that the Council of State responds to whether one has actually thought to consider a profit-criminal selection, as a large part of the industry actually asks, because they do not feel, as the Council of State says, that they have close and good cooperation to prevent this type of crime, either in Oslo or in other major Norwegian cities. There is a major problem that there is a lack of dialogue and contact between business and political authorities to prevent this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e950	Sometimes I wonder a little about the ability to make conflicts of everything. I see our interaction with the business community as good. If they think it's not good, I hope they also tell me. We have an open door in relation to that. Almost everything done by the Government is wrong. I believe that we just have a lot to reap here, among other things. in relation to prevention, because the actors are responsible. I don't think that's so funny – to be completely honest. With regard to the sample requested, I am willing to assess it – simple and straightforward. In the case of the register, which the representative asked for earlier, I have not changed the answer to that question. Justification and conclusion are attached. So I would also say that I have hopes that in the very year we're in, where so much resources are spent, we're going to go a considerable step further to fight this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e964	‘The Nordic Council has recommended the Nordic authorities to work actively to prevent trafficking in human beings with children and, in particular, to look at asylum cases with minors. [[Rek. 19/2009]] Can the Council of State explain what the Government is doing to identify, protect and follow up children who are, or are at risk of becoming, victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway, and how will the Government follow up the recommendation of the Nordic Council?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e971	Children seeking asylum, and especially single minor asylum seekers, must be properly cared for and protected. The protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, both children and adults, is protected by the new Foreign Affairs Act and the Regulation, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. Increased awareness of the risks of trafficking in human beings and other abuses of lone minor asylum seekers means that police, UDI, reception and child protection are now systematically working to prevent and detect such conditions. I was yesterday at the Hvalstad reception, where there are many lonely minor asylum seekers, and spoke with them as among others. jobs in the human trafficking team out there, and I just have to be allowed to say that I am impressed and will praise them for their efforts. These are very difficult things. But that was very specific what we were told about the effort out there, including. on arrival at reception for lone minors, a monitoring of the background of the children is carried out and they are closely monitored daily by employees. The recipients have clear warning and alert policies if a child does not return to the reception after the agreed time. In recent years, UDI and employees have, upon receipt, enhanced their competence to capture children who are, or are suspected to be, victims of trafficking in human beings. In July 2009, the Government sent a proposal for a new provision of the Child Protection Act to be consulted, which allows for the temporary placement of children without the consent of the institution in cases where there is a risk of the child being exploited for trafficking in human beings. In order to prevent the child from disappearing or coming into contact with the rearmen, it is proposed that the decision on placement may contain protective measures restricting the freedom of the child. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is now preparing a legislative proposal. In line with the Government's action plan on trafficking in human beings, this effort has been a priority for both police and special agencies since 2006. Increased efforts to prevent, detect and prosecute child trafficking have been particularly important. Strengthening efforts to combat trafficking in children have taken the form of training and raising skills, the creation of specialised groups and the development of internal and multi-storey procedures for dealing with these issues. In 2006, the Police Directorate set up a national competence group, COM, for police and prosecution of trafficking in human beings. The people out in Wvalstad who are working on this question referred a lot in connection with their efforts to this particular group, which I think is important. In May 2008, a working group presented the report ‘Ministers disappearing from reception – prevention and clarification’. The measures taken from this report are now being followed up. Guidelines have also been developed for the identification of potential victims of trafficking in human beings, including indicators and procedures for the identification of minor victims and information material for the identification of victims. Since the autumn of 2006, the COM project has facilitated systematic and targeted cooperation between agencies and non-governmental organisations in finding better solutions to combat this crime. Cooperation has also been established between the UDI, the Police Directorate and the Police Aliens Unit for the implementation of training activities and procedures to ensure that minor asylum seekers at risk of such crime are identified and provided with assistance as quickly as possible. Overall, I see that the efforts now meet and meet the recommendations of the Nordic Council to which the questioner also refers, but in this area we still need to set new goals and further develop measures to actively prevent trafficking in children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1001	Thank you very much to the Council of State for a thorough reply. It is reassuring, I feel, that the Minister of Justice can point to a major effort to combat trafficking in human beings with children. In this context, it is relevant to ask how many children are specifically victims of trafficking in human beings located in Norway. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the threat to other children? And how many children are at risk of becoming victims?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1008	I think that's very difficult to specify. The conversations we have include: had yesterday out in Wvalstad, showing that here you are struggling with very large numbers of darkness. But to the extent that the department sits on some number material that can indicate an extent, I will send it to the representative – I do not have it in my head. When it comes to the next question, what kind of threat picture do we see in Norway, that's a good question. From 2006 until now, the number of single-year-old asylum seekers has doubled sixfold. 70 pst. of which come from Afghanistan. There is good reason to believe that several of them are exposed to both trafficking in human beings and, not least, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings at work, sexual assaults and also organ trafficking, very cruel crimes. It goes without saying that when we receive over 2,000 single-year-old asylum seekers, as we did in 2009, the objective of asylum policy must not only be to bring down the figure, but also to help the people who are very vulnerable to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1015	One of the terrible criminal acts that can affect children who are victims of trafficking in human beings is sexual abuse, either in the form of the production of Internet assault material or trafficking in children between pedophile environments, which is also often advertised on the Internet. Can the Minister of Justice explain what links the police are now between the issues relating to child abuse on the Internet and the human trafficking issues in the asylum system that we just mentioned? At all costs, we must avoid getting new cases of the type of the handkerchief case, where child abuse is known in parts of the police, but where knowledge and information are not spread to other units.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1022	I fully agree with the questioner that one of the major challenges now in this field, as in some other fields, is not necessarily more resources, but how we coordinate efforts. And there, both the Stortinget and the representative – I suppose – have seen the initiative taken. The Advocate General has submitted a report, including: Based on the investigation in the Lommeman case, which gives all of us a good opportunity to take action specifically against the performance reform, as we have notified in the police, in order to achieve better coordination on this. When it comes to the issue of assault images, we are totally dependent not only on the possibility of entering traffic data to actually find which people are behind it, but also on the fact that those working on this issue in KRIPOS have the necessary dialogue with the local police district, including the local police district. to connect it to the trafficking of human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1039	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1046	‘Service centres for foreign workers are now established in Oslo, Kirkenes and from November last year also in Stavanger. The municipality of Bergen now wants to establish such a centre, and the chemist in Bergen has earmarked funds for the measure. The Kemner and the Skatt West are now co-located, and this will be the natural place to establish the Centre. Will the Council of State support this initiative, or does it correctly mean that the Ministry of Labour does not want more such centres established and that the project group is to be wound up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1053	A joint service centre for foreign workers and their employers was established in Oslo in the autumn of 2007. The Centre is a co-location, with employees from the Skattenetaten, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the police and the Labour Inspectorate. On the one hand, the Centre is a place of information and guidance, and on the other, a place where the respective departments are dealt with more simply. All EEA/EFTA citizens are served by the Service Centre. The same applies to third-country nationals who receive or apply for residence as workers. In addition, the family members are assigned to these groups. Norway has had significant labour migration, both in the form of employees employed by Norwegian employers and non-resident workers with non-resident employers. This is good experience with the Oslo Center, both among employees and users. In St.meld. No 18 for 2007–08, among others. proposed that the establishment of several such offices be considered. On 28 September 2009, a new information and processing office was opened in Kirkenes, Germany, and on 2 November 2009 a new service centre opened in Stavanger. It appears that the demand for labour and the influx of labour migrants has decreased during the period of less favourable economic cycles. I would therefore like to emphasise that there have been major regulatory changes in the foreign legislation, which have simplified the procedure. This concerns the withdrawal of the transitional arrangements, the introduction of a new registration system for EEA citizens and a new legislation on labour immigration, including: allow specialists and key personnel to start work without authorisation under certain conditions. The need for such centres has therefore diminished. I would like to stress that there is no provision for own resources to set up new service centres elsewhere in the country in the 2010 state budget. However, based on the influx of labour migrants to Hordaland, the region may need such service centres. I welcome the fact that, within this framework, cooperation solutions are being initiated locally to improve service to the users of public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1068	I say thank you for the answer. There has been a formal contact with the Ministry from the Head of the City Council in Bergen, dated 7 December, as in particular. refers to the experience of the other cities mentioned by the Council of State and also to a written question sent by the then representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister of Finance in 2008. The Minister of Finance answered that question on 17 November 2008, which included: writes: ‘It is positive that local initiatives are taken for cooperation solutions to improve service to public service users. I have no comment that the tax rate is involved in a joint guidance office for foreign workers in Bergen.» My question will then be whether the department will respond to the letter from the mayor of Bergen – hopefully also positive, so that at least there is no obstacle to establishing this centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1080	We have responded to that letter in line with the reply I am sending to the representative – that is, we are seeing positively that this is done, but that it must be done within the financial framework and that there is no subsidy for this. But we're not negative about doing that, if you feel that there's a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1085	Then I really only have one question in the end, about this with funding, because I understand that there is a significant government funding of the service centre for foreign workers in Oslo. Is it the case that the possibility of financing a similar service centre in Norway's second largest city is different?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1090	As I said in my answer, the background is for Oslo – I don't know if I said that, but I should have said that – among other things. that there was a test model where it was natural to go in with money. And as part of the Northern Region policy, a need was seen in Kirkenes. Then there has been a type of special labour immigration in Stavanger. That's the background for entering and co-financing those projects. It is now believed that the changes in legislation do not reflect the same need. That's why we haven't spent money on this for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1098	I kept saying thank you for the last time, but it is perhaps on the edge of the parliamentary: ‘Receipts of work clearance money must deliver a report card to Nav every 14 days. Many people find it very difficult to get exemption from the obligation to notify even if they are in a situation where reporting obligations so often seem completely unnecessary and bureaucratic. The reporting obligation also involves significant work for Nav. Will the Council of State take any initiative to amend the legislation and/or the exemption system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1107	All recipients of the public benefit are obliged to notify of circumstances that may determine whether they are entitled to the benefit or the amount of the benefit. Systematisation of the data collection procedures ensures that the Working and Welfare Seat is provided with the information necessary to calculate the correct performance before payment is made. For recipients who do not participate in any action or work, the submission of the notification card will confirm that no changes have been made to the payment. In addition, the alert cards ensure regular contact between the recipients and the Working and Welfare Seat in phases where frequent follow-up times are not natural. The need for recipients to make their own contribution by submitting notification cards also reduces the risk of mispayments. It's in the interests of the users. The experience of the introduction of the notification card scheme for recipients of reintroduction fees is that it has contributed to a significant increase in efficiency. The message cards also involve an automatic and more systematic update of income information than manual procedures. It is an administrative relief for the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare. Many of the recipients make use of the Internet. If compliance with the notification requirement would be unduly burdensome for the recipient, he may be released. Such an exemption will be granted on the basis of a specific case-by-case assessment. Among other things, exemptions may be granted to persons who have difficulties in filling in and/or delivering a report card. The budget shall assess whether an exemption from the notification obligation is to be granted, even if the recipient has not so requested. I therefore see no need to take any initiative to propose changes to the adopted legislation on redundancy payments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1116	Thank you for that. I agree that there are some features of this registration card that are both correct and important. At the same time, I am convinced that the Council of State is aware of the considerable resistance it has brought to those who are going to do this. If she goes into Facebook, she will see that there are now well over 20,000 people who have signed up for a group that responds to both the criteria for how you might not get into the system, which is not known, and the system itself. Let's do an example. One who has been found chronically ill over a longer period of time, and will be, perhaps on temporary unpaid pay, is not an example that there must necessarily be more bureaucracy for Nav and thus less time to help those who really need it, than the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1125	I think we essentially want the same thing. We don't want to make this harder for the users than what's necessary. That is why we have this exception. I have been in contact with the department just to get a proper understanding of what that exception means, and how it will be practiced. I have the understanding that the case just mentioned here is the case that would go under that exception. I will take the initiative to see whether it is such that the conditions of the exemption should, where appropriate, be better communicated to users, so that that consideration is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1132	Then I understand what I think was positive, namely to talk to Nav about whether it can be both concretely stated which groups, at a one-off event, may be able to discharge reporting obligations where it is obvious that there will be no use, either for him or for Nav, except to create more work for Nav, and that you communicate this better. As it is today, the user has no opportunity to clarify the criteria in question. It's not communicated, either by website or any other way. So I'm very happy about that. My question then is whether the Council of State, when this with reporting obligations comes into effect, will continue to follow it, so that it is the intention, namely to be able to follow up the individual user, who is being followed up, and that you do not make unnecessary spoils and booklets for neither the user nor for Nav as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1139	I'm very sure that the department also has that focus, but I'm going to make sure to follow it up carefully too – that you just have that focus: not loot and staple for the user, but resources to follow up the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1144	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-20.ana.ud1216e1157	There is no record.
