ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e92	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 to 5 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e152	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two parts, first dealing with the framework area 2, Family and Consumer, and then the framework area 3, Culture. The President also proposes that, during the debate on the framework area 3, the matter be dealt with as well. 4 and 5 and that under Framework Box 2 the case number is also dealt with. Two and three. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will, at the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, propose that each of the debates be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be elaborated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that up to three members of the Government should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, in both debates, there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e171	There has been a women's revolution in Norway. 30 years ago, less than half of all Norwegian women were active. The other half were full-time housewives and were cared for by their husbands. In three decades, women have flowed into the labour market. Today, seven out of ten women are working. Today, we have the highest professional participation among women in the world, while at the top of Europe in the number of childbirth. Combining the role of the mother and the professional role is impossible in most other countries. In Italy and Greece, only two women are at work. In Turkey, every four women are active. Norwegian young children’s parents have an freedom of choice that is unique on an international scale. We are not forced to choose away children if we want to be economically active. We can actually say yes to both. The parental leave scheme, in the form of its existence, gives us a great freedom of choice. And through the budget, we're making the arrangement even better. We ensure that fathers also get access to the great scheme by extending the feather quota to a total of 12 weeks. And with the birth rate, we're wiping out the old sex role patterns that have restricted fathers' freedom of choice. It has never been the right-hand side that has given children's parents greater freedom of choice, and we also see that now they want to remove their fathers' rights. We have achieved the goal of full child care coverage and thus implemented the greatest welfare reform of 30 years. Because of the lack of nursery places, mothers were primarily forced to work part-time and to work at precarious times. It's now history. With full childcare coverage, parental freedom of choice has been further extended. From being a good thing for the few, kindergartens have become an offer to the large majority of children between one and six years of age. From the construction of kindergartens, we continue to increase the quality of the children's garden. In 2011, kindergartens were integrated into the municipal framework grant. The grant to kindergartens has been earmarked because we have worked to get full coverage. Now we're in a new phase, and then it's natural that kindergartens are funded on the same lines as other municipal services like school and child protection. More and more children are being helped by child protection. Nevertheless, many children do not receive help. People's supervision reveals that many child-restraint cases are being blamed for lack of resources. We're about to have a new type of folder children. That's why we're getting the biggest effort in municipal child protection since the Sandman funds in the 1990s. The State budget for 2011 adds up to 400 new posts in municipal child protection. These are earmarked to make sure that the money is spent on the children who need help. In the first place, there will be more employees in the protection of children. They shall ensure that the messages of concern are followed up and that the children in need of assistance are followed up. Instead of lubricating these jobs thinly to all the municipalities in the country, we have chosen to allow the county to allocate funds on application from the municipalities. Municipalities that already have good staff can apply for money for other measures that will strengthen child protection in their municipality. In addition, municipalities that choose to cooperate on child protection will be given priority. We're accused of having an allergy to everything that's private and to furious private child protection institutions. There is a strange accusation in a situation where more than half of all child protection institutions are on private hands and where the state has reduced the use of institutional facilities both in the state and in the private sector. In the 2011 budget, the Progress Party proposes a cut in government child protection of one and a half billion. kr. Right cutters are not the same, but after both budgets it will lead to massive closure of state child-rescue institutions and, in the worst case, foster homes. This will be very serious for these children. This is really an ideological crusade against everything that smells stately. But the worst thing is that this will affect the children who will have to wait a long time before they get the care they need. The budget presented by the government this year is a good budget for the most difficult children, but it is also a very good budget for all families with young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e206	There's a lot of work you could do here. The chairperson of the Committee started the debate on gender equality, women out in work and old gender roles in terms of freedom of choice, the right side is going to frustrate the entire freedom of choice, and the Workers' Party is giving fathers choice. No one here is talking about women's freedom of choice – that is, about the women who actually want to be at home. That's also a question. The Labour Party wants to give fathers more freedom of choice. But what's happening now is that a lot of families have to have their kids in kindergarten a lot earlier because they don't have the opportunity to be at home -- Dad doesn't have the opportunity to take out a father's allowance and Mom has to go to work. The representative Stokkan-Grande had an entry in the newspaper that he wanted to have a nursery. Is this something that Gunn Karin Gjul supports?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e213	I think it's interesting to listen to the Progress Party when they talk about women's freedom of choice. There are election rates for delegates from all over the world to look at what opportunities we have given women in Norway. Women in Norway have far greater freedom of choice than any other woman in the world. In fact, we have the opportunity to combine – having young children while working. We're not politicians who have come up with the idea that we should build kindergartens. There has been a massive demand from women since the 1970s – through the women's coup at the municipal elections in 1971 – that they should, among other things, want full child-care coverage. Getting a good parental leave has also been a massive demand of women. So when the Progress Party is talking about freedom of choice, I think maybe the Progress Party has to look at what would be the consequence of their policies, which would be more freedom for women and for families with young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e218	Central politicians in the Workers' Party are now taking the order to change the Labour Party's family policy, and they want a more modern family policy. Of course, the right would like such a debate to be welcomed. We also believe that the Labour Party's family policy has expired, and there has been a need for change. Unfortunately, however, there is little innovation that comes into play by the family politicians in the Workers' Party. Force is now the new honorary word in the Labour Party's family policy. You have to force your parents to share the parental leave exactly the same between them. The parents are now to be forced to send their children to kindergarten, and the absence of parental boundaries and clarity is to replace the Workers' Party with the state's taking care of our children. The representative Gjul did not answer the question from the representative Horne: Is it such that the Workers' Party and the government are now moving towards more forced to have children in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e227	I find it interesting to hear that both the Right Party and the Advance Party have used the same argument that has been used since the 1970s in relation to the Labour Party's family policy. If what we actually think is very modern, it is that women can earn their own wages and be independent of men, that women themselves can choose whether they will have children while working. It is a modern family policy, and it is freedom of choice. I think Norwegian women do. It is not compulsory when women and families choose to have their own children in kindergarten. We haven't designed up the need and demand for kindergartens, it's actually a wish that all of our infants' parents have had. We can remember that for just a few years ago, young children's parents were sleepless at night and were worried about what to do with the small pod when the parental leave went out, and you didn't have a nursery place. It's an impunity. The family policy of the Labour Party is very modern. That's what young children's parents are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e232	The representative, Gjul, is very much talking about freedom of choice. That's interesting. We see from the last Nav report, on the use of the cash support, that a majority of parents use the cash support in some form during the cash support period. Then it is interesting to read the comments that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have written into the setting that we are handling today. That's what it says. ‘The welfare arrangements we have shall reflect the needs and lives of families.’ In addition, it says: ‘That is why family policy must be in line with time, and the welfare systems we have should be the ones that children’s families demand.’ Does the clear signals of freedom of choice from the representative Gjul and the comments that have now been written mean that we can expect a more positive attitude towards the cash support from the red-greens in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e247	You can read in the Soria Moria statement what the red-greens think about the cash support. We say we should liquidate the cash support for two-year-olds, and then we should have an extended one-year-old scheme. But it is no secret that the Workers' Party believes that cash support is a bad arrangement. If you look at the use of the cash support today, you can see that it has fallen gradually, as you have built up kindergartens. It says that when parents are given the option to choose, they choose kindergarten rather than cash support. We also see – if we see in a city like Oslo – who uses the cash support. The majority of those who use cash support here in the city are immigrant families — families where the child had definitely benefited from going to kindergarten, not least because of language developments. So the Workers' Party does not think that the cash support scheme is a better system today than when it was introduced in 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e252	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e256	In fact, family policy has been debated quite often in this room this autumn — on kindergartens, on the father's quota and, above all, on child protection. The dividing lines between the red-green government and the right-hand side are very evident in family policy. For the Advancement Party, the family is important. It is important to have an active and good family policy. You should not forget that the family is actually the most important pillar of today's society. The Progress Party believes that investing in families will also be a clear commitment to social benefits, both in the short and long term. For the Progress Party, it is important to give the families freedom of choice. Freedom in everyday life, opportunities for freedom of choice and right to dispose of their own family situation are alpha and omega in this matter. To turn the family's tasks over to the state or other public bodies would strongly warn the Progress Party against. That's why it was almost that one got the coffee in his throat when a read newspaper on December 3rd, where Arild Stokkan-Grande suggested babysitting. It is simply frightening reading: kindergarten, state parent counseling, state unlimited mediation – the state, the state, is what you can read about here. The working party seems to want a guardian state. This is a development from which the Progress Party will take a great deal of distance. It's actually not the state that owns the children; it's the parents that are responsible for giving them a good upbringing. Then it is up to us politicians to facilitate and strengthen the role of parents towards the children. In fact, the public cannot replace it. Several times this fall we have also heard that Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and that is it. And I'm going to agree with the committee leader that Norway actually has one of the best parental leave schemes, and that there are many who come to Norway to see how good arrangements we have. There have been many important debates this autumn on the parental leave, and I am sure the last words in that matter have not been said either. In its draft budget, the Government proposes to extend the spring quota. It's kind of the solution to everything. Gender equality is used at a high level to promote this proposal. The right-hand side is accused of going backwards into the future, we're raging the system, and some characteristics that are not true are used. Let me now make it clear once and for all: what is most important for the Advancement Party in that matter are the children. The best of the children must come first. Families themselves should be allowed to have their own right of access to their own daily lives and be allowed to decide how they will distribute these weeks. You will receive telephones and e-mails from desperate parents who almost sit and cry on the phone because they wonder how to distribute these weeks. Because not everyone works in the state and municipality. There's actually farmers out there, there's plumbers, there's carpenters who run sole proprietorships, who don't have the opportunity to take out ten weeks of spring quota. And what happens then, when mother can't be allowed to take over these weeks? Well, it's that the child has to go to kindergarten, or else. That is, it's not the best thing for children to be put in focus with this government. Therefore, the Progress Party will strongly warn against extending the feather quota. There has been a major debate on child protection this autumn; we have had several debates that have taken place during the crisis in child protection. I would like to say, even if the Council of State Lighthouses are not present here today, that it is good that we now have an evaluation; the Progress Party welcomes it. But it's just that we're afraid it'll be too late. In the last year’s budget, a majority stressed the importance of introducing further measures to improve control of the use of resources in the state’s child protection system. And now it seems like there's state child protection that's alpha and omega. We will probably hear in the debate – and have heard it over the past few weeks – accusations that the Progress Party and the right side will rage against child protection. It's completely wrong. That is not the case at all. The party of progress does not want to frustrate child protection. The Progress Party wants to strengthen child protection. In a press release from the Red-Greens, which is to be seen, it says that almost 400 child-restraint children can be placed on the street, that child-restraint is raging, that the representatives of the Progress Party do not know about child-rescue, and that we have not listened. There's something we want to take a great distance from, and it's bad for government parties to go out that way. You should almost expect the representatives to read, and that they know the difference between moving money and cutting money. The Progress Party wants to strengthen municipal child protection. Because we have seen several times – we had a meeting with the KS not long ago – that the municipalities are asking for more funding for municipal child protection. It's the municipalities that know where the shoe prints, it's the municipalities that are the first line service and are close to the children. The KS and the municipalities complain that they are not in contact with the national child protection system and that the national child protection system controls the municipalities. That's not the kind of development we're going to have. The focus must be to help those children out there who need help from the state, and then we must be able to give the money to the municipalities. That's why the Progress Party wants to strengthen municipal child protection by 200,000. Then we move money from state child protection to municipal child protection. Then it's like this government thinks everything is going to be solved with foster families. The situation today is that we actually don't have enough foster families to take care of the children who need help. And in that period, until we can get new foster families, we also need institutional places. That is why the Progress Party wants diversity in child protection. We want it to be state institutions, private NPISHs and other private organisations. The most important thing is that the children get the help they need, and that they get the arrangements that suit them. Therefore, the Progress Party also wants to strengthen purchases from private institutions. This Committee shall also be responsible for kindergartens. Kindergarten is an important theme. We see that more and more people use kindergartens for their children. Then it's important that we take care of the kindergartens we have. We would not have had full babysitting today if we had not had private kindergartens. And then in the last few months, we've seen that the privates have just been run over and hounded all the way, and it seems to me that for this government, once you've achieved full babysitting – with good help from the private kindergartens – then a knock on their legs and strangle them. What is now happening in the municipalities is worrying, because we know that the municipalities are sitting and are going to make their budgets, and the loser in this is often the nursery. And when we know that the municipalities have little money, and the money for the kindergartens has gone into the framework, the Progress Party fears that we are going to see a great deal of discrimination against the kindergartens out in the municipalities. Therefore, I would like to ask the State Council to follow closely the way the municipalities maintain the nursery provision, so that we can see that the children who need kindergarten get it. Then the Progress Party also wants to have equal opportunities for public and private kindergartens. I think what we're going to see now is that it's way too early to put it into the frame, when you haven't got 100 pst. equal opportunities for kindergartens. Therefore, it is very regrettable that this government has not been able to follow up the Child Hail Lift that was adopted, that one should be 100 pst. equal opportunities for private and public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e290	The President will recall – as it was mentioned that the Council of State Lyssbakken is not present, which is reasonable in that the Council of State has a permit – that the Stortinget has been notified by the Council of State that the Council of State governing the department is the Council of State Tora Aasland, which is present. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e295	The Progress Party writes in its own note that State policies in the field of gender equality and discrimination are a major failure. In 2009, the Equal Opportunities and Discrimination Office received 302 complaints and provided guidance on 1624 cases. One example is Hanne, who was excluded from wage negotiations in 2006 because she was in parental leave. Here was the conclusion from the order that the employer had broken the law, and the matter was settled. It didn't help Hanne to be right, until she legally got it right. The party's proposal to drop the ban is humiliating to Hanne and all those who have felt discriminated against. According to the Progress Party, was it a big mistake for Hanne to get help? How can the Progress Party defend that people who are discriminated against and who cannot afford to go the way of justice will only manage themselves, as they formulate themselves in the alternative state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e304	After all, it is a fact that the Progress Party has been opposed to the need for a gender equality and discrimination agency every year. That is why the Progress Party has proposed that this should be discontinued. It is a proposal that I have no problem defending, because I would like to point out that we in the Progress Party are opposed to any kind of discrimination. However, we believe that we have legislation, and that legislation does not require an equality and discrimination class to maintain – we have a legal system for that today. And the matter referred to by the representative shows that she was right: there was a law that made this happen – the judiciary can take care of it. We don't need our own gender equality and discrimination class to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e309	The Progress Party has said in debates and in its comments that they agree that we have one of the world's best parental leave schemes in Norway. We have the opportunity to combine family and work. In fact, the government has strengthened and expanded the scheme with new weeks. This means that the family will have even more time – which is positive. For those who have earned rights, the only requirement to be able to take out the entire leave is that both mother and father give priority to 12 weeks of their life with the new family member, which may be both reasonable and desirable in the context of family policy, since it is important that mother and father share this responsibility. These families are often those who do the best, showing some research. So I wonder how this quite reasonable requirement to prioritize 12 weeks with a new family member can be a ‘socialist coercion’, as the Progress Party writes in its comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e316	Norway has one of the world’s best parental leave schemes. And what the government is doing now is that you're going to increase this feather ratio. The progress party is aware that quite a few of Christina Nilsson Ramsøy's voters are farmers, and the farmers do not actually have the opportunity to take 12 weeks of parental leave. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to give the family freedom of choice, so that the weeks of parental leave can allow the family to be at home with their children. I have an example from yesterday: I got an e-mail where someone wrote that when she is at home with her child, they meet the father almost every day, because they go out and watch him drive a tractor. He's allowed to be home. What is happening now, when the centre party agrees to decide that there should be 12 weeks' spring quota, is that the child will see less to his father because the child will have to go to kindergarten when his father is unable to take out this spring quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e321	The Progress Party's alternative budget is called ‘Your Choice Decision’, and the representative Horne spent a lot of time in his intervention talking about freedom of choice. But there's one group of progress parties that doesn't enjoy freedom of choice, and it's the group that's in love with some of the same sex. Therefore, I wonder when the Advance Party promotes the individual as a value – that it is our choice to decide – why does the Advance Party not want these people to have the freedom to marry whom they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e326	If I don't remember correctly, it was almost such a line I got last year as well. For the Progress Party, freedom of choice is very important, and the freedom of individuals is strong in the party programme of the Advance Party. The Progress Party is opposed to any discrimination in racial, religious and gender matters, and we believe that there is no need for self-regulation for lesbians and homosexuals. That is why we are opposed to the fact that there must be specific rules for them. Then the representative brought this up with the fact that lesbians and gays cannot get married – that is, marriage law. It's the Progress Party against it. We believe that people can live together, they can live their lives as they please, but the Progress Party believes a marriage is to be made between men and women. We have not supported this in terms of lesbians and gays.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e333	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e336	The family is the main community of society and the arena of security, belonging and development. The family creates and secures a secure framework for the growth of children. Therefore, the Right will give the family the opportunity of independence and influence over the education and care of their children, while at the same time we want to ensure the freedom of choice and the ability to take responsibility for themselves and their loved ones. The committee received an enquiry a little while ago from a frustrated mother. Her husband was a farmer, and he could not take out his father's allowance at one time after her leave was over because of the job as a farmer. As a result, the child had to go to kindergarten when it was eight months old. The child and his father lost valuable time together. This is a result of the government's family policy. The well-being of the child and the family is sacrificed to equality. In its eagerness to dominate and regulate the family of people most of the detailed government governs family life, and that at the expense of the children. The child’s best interests are the right starting point for child and family policy. All children are entitled to safety and good care. Childhood is helping to mold us as people and citizens. Children are vulnerable and need to be cared for by good and safe adults. Right will highlight the personal responsibility of each of us to alert children who suffer in different ways. We often hear demands that the municipalities and the state have to go on the road to ensure that children are well-being. The municipalities and the state can never replace the network, the neighbours and the local environment around the child. That's where it's discovered only when something's wrong, and that's where you can save a child if you react in time. That is why we say in the Right: Do not forget the personal responsibility of each of us. Don't forget that we're adults who have to tell us when we suspect something is wrong. Many children have an amazing kindergarten to go to. But there are still major challenges when it comes to the quality of kindergarten. The right hopes that the government will now start to engage more in the content of kindergarten. Ensuring adequate and competent personnel is a major challenge. Strong pressure on development has obviously had a negative impact on quality, as reflected by an increasing number of exemptions from educational requirements and more children per employee due to the increase in the number of children under three years of age. This is not a situation The right is satisfied with. That's why we're taking 30 million. the quality of kindergartens in the budget of the year compared to that of the government. The right considers that all parents who want a kindergarten offer for their children will have the opportunity to do so. The lowest-income parents, who before the maximum-price scheme had the lowest-rate rate, have now received an increase in parental pay, while the highest-income parents have received a downward adjustment of over 30 pst. at their nursery expenses. It seems that the government is satisfied that this is the way it should be. The right considers that there is a basis for raising the maximum rate somewhat, rather than introducing income-rated parental payments, so that even those with the lowest income have the opportunity to send their children to kindergarten. That's why we're giving 150 million. kr extra compared to the government budget, so that the families with the lowest income level can once again benefit from a nursery offer at a lower price. For the Right, cash support is about parents' rights and freedom to choose care for their children and what is best for the individual child. We must therefore make it possible for more people to spend time at home in their very first year of life if they want to do so, and the Right therefore supports the cash support scheme. Norway has one of the world’s best parental leave schemes, and it is important to ensure it. In this way, we ensure that children get a safe and healthy start in life and that their parents get to share in the valuable time they have with the child in the first year. Right wants to recognise mother and father as equivalent caregivers by giving parents the opportunity to share the entire leave period between themselves and giving both parents the independent right to benefit. Good child protection is child protection with a wide variety of interventions and offers, with a high quality. All children under the care of child protection are entitled to a well-adapted offer. When the State assumes parental responsibility for children, it assumes special responsibility for these children. The right is therefore very concerned about the many examples of children who are failing by the public, and because there are numbers that tell us that it is increasing. In this year's government budget, therefore, the right priority is to help more children out in the municipalities rather than spend more money on a massive bureaucracy in Buffetat here in Oslo. That's why the right-hand side re-prioritises 300 million. in the State Children's Protection Bureau in order to spend this money on child welfare in municipalities and in private institutions. Like the government parties, we want to strengthen the first line, and according to the government parties themselves, it's the most important child protection effort ever done. The right agrees. But we're strengthening that investment by 160 million. kr more than the government does, because we are concerned that municipalities should be able to help the children who need it out there. They're the ones who see them. It is those who have the opportunity to prevent, and it is those who have the opportunity to put in place the right measures. It is not useful to spend money on more child protection bureaucracies until you have people out there who can help the children who are being decided on. Some municipalities have well-functioning child protection, while others are struggling with little resources and long stays. Today too many children are in line to have a foster family and to have an institutional place. Several thousand child-restraint cases are ordered every year. All of these numbers are increasing. They have increased during the red-green reign. The right is therefore disappointed that the government's only response to the big, negative developments we see is evaluations and investigations. Now the red-greens have made it their brand, and have become known for, putting down selections. But it doesn't hold up in this field where we have such great challenges, and where there are so many children who suffer because there are tasty and little acting politicians in the field. In the right, we have a very strong commitment to the children in child protection. We listen to the children, we listen to parents, and we listen to the employees in the sector. We listen to the municipalities, we listen to the statesmen who have responsibility for supervision. They tell us one thing: Buffetat is a cash drain. There's too much money being spent on bureaucracy. This is why we want to transfer more funds from a massive child protection bureaucracy to the municipalities and the first line, where we can help the children. The right has taken these signals seriously. We in the Right therefore propose these changes to our budget. We're proud of that. We re-prioritise money in order to provide children with better child protection and to make them better equipped for the future. The right is concerned about the trend we see from the government parties. To a greater extent, they want to state their families and care for their closest ones. They want more use of coercion, both in the family, in the care of the children and in kindergartens. But is it that we get a better society by forcing all children into kindergarten? Is it that we get a better society by forcing parents to share the parental leave? The vast majority of families are doing this in an excellent way themselves. The public must never believe that they better handle the task the family has done for thousands of years. The right ambition is therefore that the public must be there for the children who actually need it, and then we must give the other people the opportunity to stand on their own. I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e370	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has taken up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e376	In the evening post in November, we could read with great interest that the Right wants all fathers to have a father’s quota. That's especially interesting because the batch is opposite the feather ratio. In the Committee's position, this proposal has been considerably narrowed, for here it is said that there are only fathers in families where mother goes back to work and uses the obligation of activity, who are entitled to a family allowance. But then I started to rush a little over the proposal. Because if we look at what the Stortinget has decided before, this was introduced as early as 1 July 2009 – all fathers in families where mother goes back to work have the right to take out 47 weeks of parental leave. So I wonder what it really is Right wants to suggest, when this was already adopted from 1 July 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e381	The right-hand starting point for parental leave is that we should give equal opportunities and rights to mother and father. The government has also said that it wants to. Obviously, giving father equal rights has gone away. Once this proposal has been put into the budget by the Right, it is based on replies from the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. It is on the basis that we have made our proposal. I register that Prime Minister Stoltenberg almost a week after the article in the evening post tried to come up with a case that Right lies. The evening post has been presented with the answers and letters from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, where they say that if they have made a mistake, it is okay – but the Prime Minister must take up his duties. So I think it is rather the representative Gjul who is better able to answer how the office responds. But we want independent earnings for Dad, and we stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e388	In the alternative budget of the Right, they remove the maximum price for kindergartens. As a result, they also increase the quota on how many to charge for cash support. Is there a recognition that fewer parents will afford to have their children in kindergarten, with the new alternative regime of Right? What kind of freedom of choice is it really about not being able to afford kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e393	Since the introduction of the maximum price, the cost of kindergartens has increased for those with the lowest income. With the government's policy, those who came before the maximum price had the money and the opportunity to send their children to kindergarten, don't have it now. That's why the right will grant 150 million. kr more than the government makes up families with the lowest income, so that everyone has the opportunity to send their children to kindergarten, not just those with a liberal economy, to which the government is now giving up. That is why we are very pleased that this proposal is well accepted. We believe that all parents who want to send their children to kindergarten should have the opportunity, even if they don't have the money for it. That's why we've put 150 million. kr. We still want to give all families freedom of choice – not as the government parties call for, who want to force the children into kindergarten. We want it to be up to the parents themselves. I also think parents appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e398	The representative of Hofstad Helleland has indicated that he wants to strengthen municipal child protection. So does the government in its budget. The right also argues that more of the work should be done in municipal child protection and should be done locally. I can agree with that, too, and that less bureaucracy can be one of the results if the municipalities get more tasks than they have today. But the right does not move tasks in the budget, only funds – a few hundred million dollars, that is. that there are tasks that are cut in and not red tape when doing this overnight. A new division of tasks may be necessary if the aim is to cut red tape. That's why I wonder what this can be like to strengthen child protection and be a reduction in bureaucracy, when you choose to do it this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e408	I should like to answer that question to the representative Ramsøy. In that case, I would just like to repeat the words of her own rapporteurs in the Nord-Trøndelag, of the Central Party, who have been here on the Stortinget and had a meeting with the Committee. They have one demand: transfer more money to the first line, transfer more money to municipal child protection. The same thing KS said in this meeting, and we see that all municipalities come to Stortinget and ask us to strengthen the first line. They're the ones who see the kids who have a hard time, they're the ones who can intervene early and save these kids. They tell us that the state bureaucracy in Bufetat is a moneylock without equal, and it does not help to sit there stamping papers and operating proceedings if you do not have a good offer for the children outside the municipality. So the right listens to the Central Party rapporteurs around the country asking us to strengthen the first line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e415	The representative of Gjul is quite right that there has been a women’s revolution in Norway. We're enjoying high equality compared to the rest of the world. But despite that, it's still so that two out of three leaders in business are men, women make 15 pst. less than men per hour, 43 pst. of all women working part-time, women spending more than twice as much time on housework as men, and crisis centres report between 8 000 and 16,000 rapes per year. These numbers tell you that what you're experiencing and what opportunities you have is related to what sex you have. Norway is not an equal society. We, who ended up under the pink carpet at the food clinic, are systematically making less money and have systematic less power than those who ended up under the blue. In SV we have always been concerned with this injustice, and therefore we use the government power to do something about it. Kindergarten reform is not only a major welfare reform, it is also a major equality reform. The fight for kindergartens was the fight for a real offer for children, but also part of the struggle for women's right to and the opportunity to work. The right to work and own income are the cornerstone of the women's liberation. No one is free or independent if they are financially dependent on others. That is why equal pay and better distribution work are also so important. The richest in Norway are mostly men. Therefore, the tax relief of the right-hand side to the richest is not only poor distribution policy – and it is really bad distribution policy – it is also bad equal pay policy. Taxes will increase the differences between people, and it will increase the economic differences between women and men. In SV we have the opposite agenda. We've built kindergartens across Norway's country, we've submitted a report on equal pay, and we work every day to reduce the differences and make Norway a more equal and fairer society. This budget is also a good budget for the children who need it the most. It has been a long time since child protection was as high on the agenda as it is now, and it is not a minute too early! There are up to 400 new posts in this budget. These are earmarked to make sure that the money is spent on the kids who need help. This is to address the immediate problem of child protection — the gap between resources and the number of children in need of help. In total, we're strengthening child protection by 390 million. kr. This is the greatest promise of over 20 years, and we are proud to be in it. In addition to the strengthening of the first line service, we also strengthen the state foster home and county services. The Progress Party and the Right proposal to cut a quarter of a billion dollars. I already mentioned a lot of things about government child protection, and I see that they are trying to stay away. For they transfer the money, but they don't transfer the services. I think everyone agrees that we have a bureaucracy problem in Buffetat, but if anyone thinks there's a bureaucracy where you can cut such sums as $ 1⁄2 billion. kr, they must believe again. The proposal means a rapprochement of state child protection. The cut is about 830 years old, or hundreds of institutions, or we have to drop the bet that we've launched at state foster homes. This is where the Right and the Advance Party are going to play on the Child Protection with the ax. As a result, fewer children will have the measures they need. Fortunately, this proposal will not have a majority here today. Finally, I would like to say that, through all our policies, there is a clear red thread. That thread is about distributing better, it's about taking from those who have the most and giving to those who have the least – Robin Hood-style.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e444	In the budget debate last year, the Progress Party received criticism from Barstad’s representative in connection with the cutting off of the Progress Party in the budget for minor asylum seekers. We were told that we were inhumane, and there were no limits to what kind of descriptions were made by the representative Barstad. So when we were revised this year, the government had cut more than what the Progress Party had done in its alternative budget. And when we see the budget this year, you could say that some of these things that Barstad's representative refers to would not have been done if you hadn't cut asylum seekers as well. So my question is: is the representative Barstad comfortable with and happy with the immigration and asylum policy that the government is pursuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e454	The Swedish government controls a lot, but we don't control who comes here, or who doesn't come here. The reason it was cut in these appropriations was precisely because it comes to Norway less. It's about taking care of those who come here. I hold firmly to what I have said about the fact that the Progress Party is in favour of an inhuman asylum policy and that they are working consistently, every day, to ensure that we have a more stringent asylum regime in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e459	I hope the representative Barstad agrees with me that everyone who sits here has a genuine desire to make child protection better, and take better care of all the kids who hurt it. That is why the right-hand side of the budget comes with constructive input, among other things. re-priorities and not cut to the extent to which the representative intends. We have received these recordings from many red-green rapporteurs around. When Barstad's representative has problems defending, or maybe it's a little complicated, right-wing funding 160 million. kr more to the first line than they do themselves, you go out with a press release saying that it is disrespectful that the right side is playing Russian rule with child protection. Does Mr Barstad think that this is a constructive way of debating child protection? We have the top responsibility for child protection, it is in our interest to conduct the debate constructively. Is that how we want to hear more about in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e467	The right-hand side doesn't get away from saying that they're transferring money, and they might, but they're not transferring tasks. It's a red tape challenge in Buffetat, but not a $30 billion red tape challenge. These cuts are equivalent to 830 years' worth of work and many institutional places. I want to remind you that state child protection takes care of the children who need it the most. So I think that the right-hand side paints with a very broad brush in its proposals, and that it is a little special to criticise the cut suggestions that have been made. The impact of that proposal will be less competence, less help to those young people who are currently being helped by the State's child protection system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e472	SV is a party with a big heart that will be very much, like my own. Now the representative is speaking hotly for child protection, and I am pleased to hear that. It is true that the government, and the representative represents the government parties, have ambitious plans for full hospital coverage by 2015. It is a government that is very proud that it had great ambitions for kindergarten development, and that it would be full kindergarten coverage by 2007, with some drastic consequences for the party leader if you couldn't fulfill it. In the case of child protection, which does not represent the same broad selection groups as the other two sectors, there is no corresponding escalation plan, there is no corresponding deadline – there is no corresponding pressure to reach targets within a given deadline. Is the representative, Mr Barstad, proud of the government's priorities in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e479	I am proud of the government's priorities in the field of child protection, and I am proud that my own party has been involved in putting this at the highest level on the political agenda in the last year. I'm proud of that. I'm proud that we have an escalating plan. You have to think about having more issues in child protection. One is the immediate issue of getting more jobs into child protection now, because they are unable to deal with the issues they have. And the second is the structural problem. Then SV will try to avoid making the mistake that was made last time you had a major child protection reform, and it was to bring down a reform at the top of the employees, which nobody in this room is defending today. We have to do thorough work when we have structural problems in child protection. But I am proud that we take a roof and have the biggest investment in this field in 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e484	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e487	When we are going to debate this year's budget in the area of child, family and gender equality, it is natural to start with child protection. There is a field that has been discussed a lot, which requires a lot – and an area where we are now doing a lot. Municipal Child Protection has a lot of work pressure and a lot of responsibility. They're the ones that are the first line, and they're the ones that run prevention. Then they need both more resources, more skills and more measures in municipal child protection. We're doing that by giving 240 million in the year's budget. to go to new posts in the field of child protection, or to other measures which may contribute to the enhancement of child protection competences. It's not a one-off bet, but it's a promise that it's important that we join in and follow up in the next few years. The centre party will prioritize municipal child protection. High level of competence that helps to ensure that we get a quality of the job being done. Through good knowledge of child protection employees, we ensure that the needs of young people are always put first, and that employees are even better placed to see the needs of young people and the challenges they face at home. A lot of work is done in the field of child protection in this budget, and at the same time we have to be honest that there is also a lot of work to be done in front of us. For the Center Party, the family is the basic social unit of society. Young people’s need for care, safe tranquillity and closeness must be met there. But the family is in many ways under strong pressure. The changes that take place in the labour market and general changes in society raise new problems. We must also take this seriously. In this context, family protection is very important. Family protection offices are available throughout the country and have an important role to play in both couples’ therapy and conflict resolution. The family office shall be the natural place to seek help for life problems or mediation. We also know that there is a relationship between the number of children who get help in child protection and the number of divorces and separations. The indicator is the most pronounced in terms of the need for child protection. In addition, we know that the young people living in conflict-filled families need more help. Therefore, family protection will be important and preventive also in relation to child protection. It is positive that the Ministry has had a review of family protection to assess whether the offer we have today is appropriate to the need that exists, and I look forward to a discussion about any changes in the role and organisation of family protection following the internal evaluation that has been. We have very good and flexible welfare arrangements in Norway in connection with childbirth and care, even if one almost becomes in doubt when one hears that some talk about both state coercion and family overmanagement. Parental leave is frequently discussed in the family and cultural committees, and the government has announced through the equal pay notice that they wish to consider a new breakdown of parental leave. This breakdown will help to strengthen the family by ensuring both mother and father a few weeks, while respecting the need for flexibility and freedom of choice. It is important that fathers participate more actively in the everyday life of the newborn child. Although there has been a significant development in the last 10–15 years around the care of men for their own children, we still have a rather long way to go before we can say that we have an equal parenthood in Norway. This is also confirmed by more people in the business world. It has also been researched that the long-term effect of the father’s increasing responsibility for the children is also effective. If you don't have anything to do with the goal of equality in responsibility for children and families, it will also have a negative impact on other goals we've set ourselves, including: around the pay gap between women and men. This is a field that will also be discussed a lot in the future. What is important for the Centre Party is that we are able to focus both on the need of the individual family to organise as it pleases, while at the same time demanding the arrangements and state resources we actually use to ensure that we have the world's best parental parental leave scheme in Norway. We must not forget that when we discuss the device and the details of the arrangement we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e518	The representative pointed out in his statement the importance of municipal child protection, because it is those who know the children’s situation and can provide the closest help. When the Committee meets with the KS, there are clear signals coming – they criticise the bureaucracy that is being set up for now, and the lack of trust in the municipalities. The government is suggesting that they increase the appropriations, but you have to apply to the county for this money. The rapporteur from Steinkjer, who is from the Central Party, says that there is an animal and bureaucratic process to distribute small amounts of money. The Steinkjer rapporteur also responds to what he believes is a lack of trust from the government that it is the municipalities that are the closest to finding the best solutions in child protection. My question to the representative of the Central Party is: Does the representative agree with the central party rapporteur from Steinkjer on his criticism of the government for lack of trust in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e525	I agree that we have challenges with the bureaucracy of state child protection, and that is what we want to see when we are going to have the evaluation of child protection that has been notified by the government. Then it's important to mention that the Steinkjer rapporteur also talked about the fact that a lot of priority has been given to prevention as well. It is precisely something that has been prioritised through increased funding from the government to the municipalities, and has been with and strengthened, among other things. The local economy, which, in turn, helps to strengthen the protection of children in municipalities, as one might say. has done on Steinkjer. So I haven't said that this arrangement is what we're going to have in all the years to come. Now we have to look at how this system works. It has not yet entered into force. It's important to see what kind of effect it gets. I am willing to discuss whether we should have any other devices on that scheme. But what is important, as both the rapporteur on Steinkjer and many others have said, is that it is important that we now come up with funds that are priority for the protection of children. So let's think about how to distribute these means. The important thing is that the money is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e534	As I know the Center Party, the Center Party is forced, at least out in the municipalities. I don't think it's any wonder that we get, at least with us, a lot of frustrated and worried feedback from many parents, especially many farmers, who are very disappointed that the Center Party is now introducing coercion and quota arrangements in the parental leave, and who are disappointed that in the government parties there is also an issue of coercion in kindergarten. There are also many who are concerned that the Centre Party is involved in the crusade against private child protection institutions. There are several central party people running private child protection institutions around the country. Is it such that the Centre Party is comfortable to force and a crusade against private operators is the right line in this area in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e543	I do not agree with the premise on the question – that it is coercion that is the solution. This government has actually invested in the parental leave scheme by making it more flexible. I must say I am a little surprised by the touching care of Norwegian farmers. The centre party has joined forces to strengthen the welfare systems. We'd like to go on with that, and it seems like the Right Party and the Advance Party are also involved in it. So there I wouldn't say it's coercion. There's a very flexible system we have. The father quota is a possibility and not a coercion. In the case of private child protection institutions, I would not say that it is a crusade against them either. In our remarks, the representative of Hofstad Helleland can read that the entire government believes that the child’s best interests are to be taken into account. So in those cases where private child protection institutions are the best solution for kids, it's the institutions that are to be chosen. That's our starting point, too. We are happy to discuss how this distribution is to be made, and it is also included in the evaluation of child protection that has been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e554	The representative Ramsøy was moved by the care of the Right for Norwegian farmers. I can say to myself that I am at least happy with the care of the Center Party for Family Protection. In fact, the representative Ramsøy is the only representative from the red-greens who talk with enthusiasm about family protection. I've noticed that before. It is a concern that, if possible, is even more credible than the care of Norwegian farmers. Then we're going to hope that there will also be political breakthroughs in the red-green government. My question is about the ideal institutions of child protection. Last night we dealt with a matter where the majority in this room said that there is a need to put in place more long-term framework conditions because they are actually about to die out. So the question is, what will the Central Party contribute to the red-green majority to ensure that there is actually action out of words, and that we save the ideal institutions in child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e562	It is a very important debate that the representative of the Christian People's Party promises. Many of the answers from the Central Party came during the debate yesterday. I think what we have to do in this field is quite a lot of things. We have to look at how we put up the whole tender system we have today. The evaluation of the review of child protection should also consider the relationship between institutions and foster homes. Then we have to look at what kind of institutions we want to use. We have to assess the size of the institutions: who is the best fit? I think many of the criteria we use will come to bear on the very use of the institutions that the representative of the Christian People's Party is in. One of the measures is to look at the whole system, how it's put up today, and get it more long-term, more predictable and go into and think about which institutions we think are the best solutions for kids, because it's the ones to be in the center, and not what institutions we want to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e569	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e572	The budget debates in Stortinget this autumn are in stark contrast to the corresponding debates in our good neighboring country around us. TV images of furious demonstrators protesting at different budget proposals in different European countries have become daily. We have come out of the financial crisis better than most other countries. There is room for further development of our welfare services, and we are planning new initiatives. Several media, such as the Evening Post, the NRK and others, have made close reports on the fate of individuals in the wake of cuts in public budgets, which are now being implemented in our neighbouring countries. The stories show something that might be of course, but still to reflect. Those who strive to make ends meet when the welfare goods are cut rely on their closest family members who can three supportive ones. Now the family relations were also there long before the municipality and state were invented. In the Norwegian budget debate there is a huge commitment and enormous use of resources in everything that is shaken and distorted in society and in people's lives, and that should be repaired. One of the big paradoxes is how little interest there is in asking the simple question: why? What can we do to prevent it from happening again? Strengthening and supporting the closest relationships people have in their everyday lives strengthens each one of us. It strengthens our resilience to the challenges that life presents us, it makes us less vulnerable, and it strengthens the community. Why is there enough budget debate in the family committee without raising family protection as a commitment? Why are not the small appropriations for the life course doubled, tripled or quadrupled? It had, to put it cautiously, not given the basis for either the rule of action, the interest rate or the exchange rate. I dare say so with a former Minister of Finance in the Chamber. Let me quote from Frode Thuen, who wrote an article in the evening post recently, where he asks just these questions about the lack of bet on family protection: ‘Is this just an expression of short-term policy? Or is it mostly because of the fact that it is always easier to prioritize damage repair than to prevent? [[...]] Is it just simple and brutal real politics – that you cut where it hurts the least? Where it provokes fewer voters? Or is it a ‘work accident’? [[...]] Or is this really about political ideology?’ Why does it cost so much to raise the appropriations so little to what matters most to most people? The red-green government is not able to find room for these relatively small amounts, but is even able to cut into a life course like a good life! And what about us? The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority in a note states that within the framework of measures for people with disabilities, what about us? for the next year, but waiting eagerly for the continuation for later years. There is a lack of priority and attention that makes such a glitch possible. There is a lack of prioritisation and attention to enable political leadership in the ministry to provide up to several conflicting reasons for the overall necessity of the cut. In some families, parents don't have the power to give the kids the care they need. That's why a good family policy means that we also need a child protection with full coverage, just like we want full coverage of kindergartens and nursing homes. Imagine that we have a government that has been sitting for five years and has not been able to say that. The government's motto seems to be that child-rescue protection, as it's called. In the 2011 budget, child protection has come out quite well. It becomes more to the municipalities and more to the counties. Good! It's just that no one knows what's going to happen to the next budget. Counselors don't know what to do with money they don't know if they're going to have anything in half a year after they're coming into effect. The measures will not work until the second half of the year with the Government's plans. The municipalities were clearly informed that the nursery bet lasted until we had room for everyone. In Child Protection, we'll see it and hope for the best. Next year, child protection may be a loser or a winner. The Christian People's Party is waiting in suspense and does not intend to give up the fight until we have a full child's protection with a escalating plan for full coverage at all stages. The problem is that the kids don't have time to wait. I am concerned that we note a child protection debate where the red-green representatives are self-satisfied with what has been delivered so far in the state budget, and are very pleased that they have found a weak point in the budgets of the Right and the Advance Party, for which they can be criticised, but then you don't say a word about what you want for the future, you don't say a word about what you intend to do in 2012 and 2013 and how to step up child protection until it has a decent level and the kids have actually got a home and received care and offers that they sorely need. I'm addressing the proposals that the Christian People's Party is all about in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e605	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e610	On my way to Stortinget today, I heard on the radio. There was the theme of friendship between Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen in connection with the start of a new government, and no one is in any doubt that that friendship is so good that it will be a new government. But it was also interesting to note that they would so gladly invite the Christian People's Party into that friendship and into such a government. When we look at the submitted budget that we are dealing with today, we record great differences between the blue friends and the Christian People's Party in important policy areas such as equality, child protection, family policy, childcare facilities for Sami children, to name a few. So my question to the Christian People's Party is: Will the Christian People's Party in a future blue government cooperation give up these policies at the expense of a future government position?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e617	It is very nice that both the Right Party and the Advance Party want to invite with the Christian People's Party in government. We also notice a considerable interest from the other side of the track half, to say so, and we take that in the Christian People's Party as a great declaration of trust. As I said in my post, we are concerned about building up the values that matter most to people, about family values, the community values, volunteering and what strengthens the community. We're concerned with non-material values, because we think that's what matters most when it comes to the problem. And then we fight for it, and then we raise it, and then we get the other parties to deal with it. If they want our favor and want our cooperation, you have to put at the bottom of the priorities that we want. We're going to fight for the values we stand for, and then we're going to cooperate with the parties that give us an impact on the important things we have on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e624	The Christian People's Party has previously declared itself a hot follower of the cash support in the debate. But in a city like Oslo, it turns out that very many of those who receive cash support have kids who have an extra need to go to kindergarten. Then I'm talking about children with a minority background who need language development, and who need the extra it is to go to kindergarten, to get a better starting point when they start school. Does the Christian People's Party have any comments on what they want to do to help these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e631	After all, we first heard in the debate an enthusiastic speech on freedom of choice from the leader of the red-greens in the family committee. If freedom of choice is to be exercised, these parents must be allowed to choose what type of care they think is best for their children. The results show that they all, most Norwegian parents, want to use kindergartens for their kids, in some form, whether you are Norwegian or you have immigrant backgrounds. So many of them want to mix it again with different forms of withdrawal of cash support during all or part of the cash support period. If that freedom of choice is to be granted to Norwegian parents, it must also be possible for migrant parents to be given the right to choose for their children. As far as language development is concerned, it is important to remember that the cash support is actually for 1-year-olds and 2-year-olds, and you should actually have completed three, four, and five years before you start school. I think that's a challenge that's fully secure, among other things. with free core time and other measures, without depriving parents of freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e638	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e641	In the alternative budget of the Left, one of the major areas of activity is the fight against poverty, especially child poverty. That is why we have a re-priority to the government budget of 1.8 billion. kr just for that purpose. Several of the measures are under the two framework areas that we are discussing today. But I also want to raise some of the other individual measures. First of all, the Left is an equally enthusiastic follower of kindergarten as many others here in the pulpit. I think enthusiasm is figuring out all the flies, but we now think it's important to focus on quality within the kindergartens that you actually built. That's why we want to add to research in the field. We really think we can't do enough about what kindergarten is, and what methods within the sector work best for children. We also want to have a separate package for recruiting pre-school teachers. That's what we've put in $25 million. kr. We have introduced non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens, and we also want graduated parental payments. The reason is that we have now had a reform in relation to parental payment in kindergarten. In very many municipalities, this has led to better advice on getting cheaper kindergartens, while with less advice they have received more expensive or no price reduction. That's why we have invested money to achieve a greater degree of graduation in the parental payment in the nursery. The left has been very busy doing something for the families who take the responsibility of taking on a child who does not have parents over the last five years. We think we're giving far too little support to the parents who are doing just that, and we want to increase adoption support to 1 G. We're also among the parties that have proposed some major acts in the field of child protection, not just talk. We are now proposing a major reform in which we are moving the money down to the municipalities, away from the regional branch, away from the bureaucracy. We move money, responsibility and decisions to those who see the kids in their eyes. So here we've been talking a lot about fathers' quotas and fathers' rights to children. That's why I think it's a little strange that you haven't entered into maritime service for fathers even in the spring quota. It does the Left in its alternative budget, and we actually view it as an important equality act. We have also distributed some suggestions in the hall today, which I would now like to address. One of them, the first, concerns this framework area. A few years ago, many people promised that today's family forms are changing. The majority of people living here in the city live alone, while we have very little policy on how to make life better for those who choose to live alone. It's a survey, started by the Bondevik II government, from the Statistical Central Bureau, which shows that this is a group that loses on the income front, which has a lower health development, and also loses on many other fronts. Nevertheless, there is something that does not fit into the batch programme of the individual batches or into some study circle in which you have gone – that this should be a group you promise. Had there been another group that had lost so much in health, lost so much in income development or other things, this would probably have been at the top of the agenda. I'll stop where I started. The fight against poverty is not a battle you win once and for all, but children never choose their childhood. That is why it is important for us to focus on all the measures we can take to balance the difference between the different rearing conditions that kids get. That is why one of the five major initiatives in the Left's alternative budget is the fight against child poverty. It's also going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e664	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has taken up the suggestions she referred to, which are therefore distributed in the hall. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e670	I think it is good to listen to a left-wing politician who defends the federal quota and who absolutely sees that the federal quota is important both for children, for father and for equality. I have also seen with interest proposals from the Left in the Storting, both in this period and in the previous period, where they want to extend the parental leave period to 65 weeks. That in itself may be okay, but we already have the best parental leave scheme in the world today. When you see that this will cost between 4.5 and 7 billion. kr extra, I ask the question: Could the left not intend to spend this money in a better way? The left is talking a lot about the poor kids. Wouldn't it also be natural to spend money in a way that would benefit them, instead of expanding a system that is already defined as the best in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e677	Seeing if we're good at something doesn't mean we're not going to get better. That's actually how we can re-prioritize 1 812 million. So it's going to be $1.8 billion. kr and above it, to poor children more than the government. So we can do it. And then we can do something about the income right for fathers, as I think it's very strange that the government has done nothing more about it. It could also have been guaranteed in the father's quota, to ensure that fathers who have partners who are at home should also have the right to be with their children and to receive compensation, and that fathers' rights based on their own salary are also treated. We want to stretch to make better arrangements. In our model, there's a third, but it's also that you can take out parental leave over a long period of time, so that the family gets the opportunity to dispose entirely of how to take out the parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e686	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e689	A good crop policy is a policy for a good future – for individuals and for society. That is why we must ensure that all children are brought up as best they can, even where the family does not stretch. Therefore, the government is proposing to strengthen child protection by a total of 390 million. kr in the next year's budget. More and more children are being helped by child protection. During 2009, 46,500 children and young people received help. This is an increase of 46 pst. from 2000 to 2010. Municipalities are making an important and significant effort in the area of child protection. At the same time, we know that many municipalities are unable to help their children well enough. We need to be sure that the employees in the first line of child protection are able to handle all the concerns that come in, in a good enough way, and that no cases are resolved without us being absolutely sure that there is a good professional basis for that. We need a power cap for the most vulnerable children. That's why we're labeling 240 million. kr, just to increase the number of municipal child protection posts. This, as several speakers have pointed out, is the greatest promise for municipal child protection in 20 years. It's about time. In addition to the effort on municipal child protection, the government proposes to strengthen state child protection with a total of 150 million. kr in 2011. There has been a sharp increase in the number of cases for treatment in the areas of child protection and social affairs. Lack of capacity in the denominators has led children to have to wait too long for their care situation to be clarified. To do something about this, we suggest that the budget for the counties be increased by 10 million. kr. More children need help from state child protection in the form of institutional, foster home and other state measures. That's why we're proposing to increase the funding for state child protection by 20 million. kr. State foster homes accept children with demanding additional challenges. In these homes, one of the parents is required to be at home full-time. It's necessary to compensate these extras. That is why we are proposing to increase the allocation to state foster homes as well. The strengthening of child protection provided by the government in the 2011 budget will help improve the first line of child protection to deal with all issues that come in a good way, to help children who need it get a measure of national child protection, and to ensure that children do not have to wait to deal with a case in the county. The government has recently provided the Equal Opportunities for Equal Opportunities Communication, and I am pleased that important measures are already reflected in the budget for next year. Parental leave is an important welfare scheme that enables both mother and father to combine professional participation and care for young children. I am pleased that the government's proposal to extend the parental leave period by one week is supported in Stortinget. The government's goal is an equal society in which parents participate on a equal footing in working life and family life. A key prerequisite for achieving this goal is that fathers take a greater share of responsibility at home than they do today. I find it hard to understand the Right Party and the Advance Party that will remove the feather quota. The parental quota has been essential to increase fathers’ withdrawals from parental penitentiary. The father allowance is a father’s right, both to the employer and to the mother, and ensures that the father and the child have time together. Today, when the Storting decides to extend the feathering quota to twelve weeks, it is historic, and there is an important step towards a more equal regime also in the case of the parental killers. In addition, in the recently submitted gender equality report for equal pay, the government announces that it will look into groups of fathers who are currently unable to take leave in order to assess changes in their eligibility opportunities. It's a matter of course when we're now working on the gender equality report, that we're going through everything that can improve the arrangements, anything that can create more equality, and anything that can make equality more real between mother and father in the family. Finally, a few words about another matter under my department, namely Finansportalen. In these Christmas seasons you should also talk a little bit about consumer policy. This portal has been an important investment for the government, and the website has been a success so far. The portal makes consumers today a much better starting point for making good choices in financial services markets. In 2011, the government wants to continue its efforts on precisely these types of instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e715	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e718	Stavanger Aftenblad has had a large series of articles on the fight for the children in recent months, where quite disturbing information has emerged that we are seeing an ever-increasing development of something called web wirers, which is supposed to help families escape. The advice is “Always keep petrol on the tank” so that you can go on short notice. ‘Keep a luggage ready when the Child Restraint Breaths You in Your Neck’. That's not the way we want it. My question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State mean that child protection is working optimally today when we see such a large and explosive development in the area of network advisors to help families against child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e725	I think everyone in this room is aware that child protection through time has had some challenges, and many times there may have been reasons to criticize. That is also why we are now supporting child protection by extra means, both municipal and state, and that we are also supporting all the schemes that lead to a qualitative improvement in child protection. I've also read these stories. I think it is doubtful that child protection has such a bad reputation that it will be necessary for someone to set up such schemes. So I'm set to do what I can in every context now, both in the sample to look at child protection, which I have great expectations of, and in the development of the arrangements we have. We need to arrive at a child-restraint that has such a high status and that there are so many positive words and measures that there is no need to look at it that way. That's my goal, and I hope we can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e732	I thank you for your answer and will follow it up a little bit. We see that more and more children need help from child protection, and it's positive that child protection is there to help the families. But as the Progress Party sees it, we believe that some of the child acquisitions could have been avoided if child protection had played with the families to a much greater extent and given help at home. We often see some dubious parents who experience that child protection has only decided that the child should leave that family, instead of putting in measures that would have allowed the child to have been with the family or in the immediate family and had a good system there. We also see that child protection is mandatory for the parents who lose the right to care for their children. The Children's Ombudsman, Reidar Hjermann, made it clear that we need a national system for parental care. Is this something the Council of State supports?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e741	I am sure that the representative and I are both aware that in terms of child protection matters, and especially the difficult child protection issues that have to do with family relationships, there are many aspects to them. Not all sides come up with what is often the media's and third-party's view of the matter. So I don't want to take for granted that it's always child protection there's something wrong with. I think child protection is definitely doing its very best, even in difficult takeover cases. But I agree that here we can do more. This is also one of the reasons why the government in next year's budget has strengthened both the municipality and the state, but also the county councils, which have a very important role in the very kind of work that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e746	This government has had a high cigarette lead in terms of equality and equal pay. That is why the voltage was also very high when the equal pay message was to be presented. It turned out quite quickly that the government had also found no quick fix on equal pay. The right also believes that the challenges of equal pay are more complex than they were. Now we see, among other things: that today the Council of State is out saying that the answer is as simple as a third of the parental leave. If a division of leave is so important for equality, why does the government oppose giving mother and father equal rights to withdrawals of parental leave? Why is the government today voting against giving fathers the right to self-sufficiency, if the government believes that equal pay is also solved by coercion in connection with the parental leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e753	For the sake of order, the government will not be given the opportunity to vote today, but there will be a vote on a proposal submitted by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e757	Thank you for that clarification, President! But, of course, we are in favour of the proposals. I must say that I am amazed that the Right does not support, rather counter-workers, perhaps the most important proposal to achieve real equality, namely that the father's quota should also give father a right. You talk about coercion all the time. It's not a coercion, it's a possibility. A right will always be an opportunity. And there's no coercion, there's no one forcing anyone to do anything. The only thing that had to be in use of that term is that you might not get any money that others get. But the situation is that there is an opportunity for a father. Many fathers have also worked out the desire for such a right. We have to have something to put on the table with the employer, we have to have something that is legally anchored, which can make Dad, with equal rights to mother, take out his father's quota and thus become part of the same thing. That's what the government means by its equality notice for equal pay. There are many measures, this is one of them, which together promote better equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e768	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that the Right actually believes that we have come there that even the fathers that we see today, themselves have a genuine desire to be with their child, because they see that it is important both for the family and for the relationship with their children. That's why many fathers do it of their own free will. What is happening today is that if a father cannot make use of the father's quota for any reason, he loses almost three months with the child. That the child has to be sent to kindergarten against parents' will when the child is 7-8 months old, we believe is a form of coercion. Is it true that the government and the government continue to want a policy of punishing the family if the family does not choose the arrangements that the government believes are best for the family, by taking away valuable time with the child?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e777	What's strange is that when you bring forward a right that the Right is against, and the right is then put into life, the Right is horrified that you have to follow it – and can follow it. I want to repeat that there is no coercion in this right. There is also nothing negative about sending a child to the nursery. I can't understand, understand and understand how the Right has made it clear that sending a child to kindergarten is so bad, even though it's as small as it is. Kindergartens we build out that it should be a good offer, and it is of course up to the parents whether they want their child in kindergarten or not. So in this government proposal, there is no coercion, but only more opportunities – more opportunities for the family and more opportunities, not least for fathers. I think that the story is going to show that at some point the Right might be going to take the idea and realize that this was reasonable anyway, but now it's quite incomprehensible that you're so opposed to what the government's proposal is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e784	On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to welcome the Council of State into the responsibilities of the Family and Culture Committee. In the case of the Christian People's Party, we actually welcome the fact that we have a government council that is now responsible for the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, and a finance minister who has both the background as statesmen, with the insight into child protection and the challenges of child protection that come with it. Now it is the case that the government has started a lot of processes to go through a lot of things, not least organisation and structure, and come back to the Storting in a few years. But as we know very well, it's a child who's in line for foster homes, it's a child who's in line to get his/her affairs dealt with in the county, to get worried messages processed, who needs more aftercare than they get, and who doesn't get the help they need. What does the government intend to do in the meantime, while waiting for the samples, to give child protection the promise that is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e793	In the meantime, the government is doing a great deal, not least with the efforts that are now in the next year's budget. I can reassure the representative, as I heard in a previous line change claim that no longer has been planned than until 2011. Of course we do. It is in the circular that has been sent out to all the municipalities and all the counties, that the government will continue the appropriations – and now we are talking about the appropriations for the municipalities in particular – also in addition to 2011. So our plan is here we're going to continue these means. In addition to that, I have also heard the request for an escalating plan. Obviously, there are many elements in this plan and in the work we are doing now to strengthen child protection, which is, of course, about continuing with the good things that we see working, but also about having a sample that tells us what it is that can work even better, and how we can get to the interaction between state and municipality in an even better way. We have common goals: all the best for the children. We're definitely doing what we can to get it done, and we have a goal that has a term over the next year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e800	The representative Øyvind Håbreek has asked for another line. The President considers it a reasonable part of the spring quota, so Håbreek is given the opportunity to get that reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e803	It is good to hear that the Council of State has ambitions for what will happen next, but the question we have to ask ourselves in the Stortinget is: Why is the Stortinget not presented with this in the documents submitted to the Stortinget? What the Council of State referred to, from a circular to the municipalities, is not in the budget. It tells me something as simple as that's what the department wants. But the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, the Government and the King of the Council of State have not decided to do so. That is what creates uncertainty for child protection in the future. It is evidence that the government prioritises kindergartens and nursing homes and deadlines and escalation plans for these sectors, while this is not equivalent to child protection. My question is, When does the government find it right to make a stepping-up plan and present it to the Stortinget, with clear deadlines for when to aim at removing the queues also in the area of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e810	I would not have quoted from a circular to the municipalities if I did not know that it was coverage to say exactly what it says here. It says that the funds will continue beyond 2011. It's clear that for every budget we have a budget discussion, but here it's about hiring people next year, and it would be alarming if the government would suddenly withdraw a grant when the municipalities have hired people. So this is something government parties agree on. We're going to follow this up, we're going to keep betting on this. So it's like a plan to improve child protection is not just about giving more money to the different measures that we're doing here now. It's about having a good system for recruiting foster homes – we're doing that – and a good system to follow up the institutions where we need institutional space, and we also want to have more of them at foster homes. But then there is one measure over all other measures, and I think we can agree on that, it is that we have to put maximum effort into prevention, so that we have fewer children that child protection needs to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e817	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e820	My slogan for the further bet on kindergartens is that we have to think big and much more about the small and society's efforts in relation to the small ones. The biggest welfare reform we have had in Norway for many decades is the effort for full child care coverage, and we have come to the goal. This means that many more children than before — i.e. all the children the parents want to have babysitting – now available for kindergarten. It's a very happy increase, especially among children with a minority background, and 95 pst. of five-year-olds with a minority background now attend kindergarten before they begin school. This is an effort that has not come about by itself. We remember very clearly how the opposition from 2001 to 2005 led the then bourgeois government from Stortinget to force it to bet on kindergartens. Since 2005, we have kept it pressed up, and we have come to terms with a significantly lower price – many paid more than NOK 4000 per month for kindergarten space before we started with a maximum price – and far more children than before have had room. What is now the challenge is to take forward this extensive child care effort, so that we focus even more systematically on the content and quality of the offer that the smallest should have. It's not like we've done kindergarten work by reducing quality. It is true that we have exemptions from the educational requirement, but the proportion of pre-school teachers and pedagogues in kindergartens is the same as before the large-scale development. The fact that there have been a few more exemptions is due to the fact that the number of kindergartens has become so much larger. Nor is it the case that the kindergarten price has increased when we look at the overall level – there may be some individual municipalities where it has happened. But that's how the reduction in price has been greatest for them with the highest incomes, because many had graduated parental payment earlier, and it was extremely expensive for many to have a kindergarten. The major challenge we are facing now is that the extensive inclusion of the earmarked funds in the childcare sector in the free framework of municipalities should be followed up by municipalities in such a way that they take responsibility for kindergartens and see them in the context of the common crop policy. There are many possibilities for the municipalities here. It is much more systematic to think of kindergartens with the values and quality of kindergartens and the emphasis on young people developing with play – not preschool or school – with the possibilities of language development, the development of social skills and the transition to school, etc. It is also linked to the responsibilities of the Aasland State Council, namely child protection and the particularly vulnerable and vulnerable children. Quality kindergartens can support the development of children and be children’s support players to a much greater extent than we have now. It is essential that we now take the first part of this massive effort on kindergartens further, and that we do not dampen the level of ambition in relation to further developing the sector. Kindergartens, both private and municipal, are one of the most satisfied communities in the municipality, but my ambitions for the quality of kindergarten are greater than what we can offer today. We've trained a lot more educators. We want to educate more. In addition, we want to look at the review we have had of pre-school teacher education, because we have some quality challenges in that respect as well. We want to support through further training of managers in kindergartens. We want to invest more in the assistants, because many of them are unskilled and want to either take professional letters as child and youth workers or go ahead and take pre-school teacher training. Here we have a considerable job to do in the future, both in continuing to recruit more people for the pre-school profession, in providing greater opportunities for job-based pre-school teacher training and in investing in research and development in the kindergarten sector. This is an understudy area. We have increased efforts in research in kindergarten as the arena for the young children in particular, but we still have a considerable job to do in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e839	State Council Halvorsen is here talking about our goal and that we have full child care coverage. I guess we almost have, if we don't assume you're born at maybe times of the year other than the government's plan. At Kinderhage.no we can now read about a strong warning, because now the kindergartens are on a cut list in the municipalities. The State Secretary to the Council of State has also been out there saying clearly that she is concerned about the nursery provision in the municipalities, and that we can now see a cut in the municipalities in kindergarten after the nursery funding has entered the framework. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State follow up the municipalities, so that we can ensure that we still bet on kindergartens and get even more bets in the future on kindergartens, and that the municipalities don't cut the kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e848	It is such that children have the right to babysitting, and that it is the responsibility of the municipality to enforce that right. That's not how the municipalities can spend 28 billion. kr free for all possible other purposes. They have a duty to offer a nursery place, they have a duty to relate to the maximum price, they have a duty to relate to the quality requirements we have. But it is a demanding inclusion of a comprehensive, earmarked system that the municipalities are now going to implement. It is clear that I follow very closely how this goes around the municipalities, not only in relation to the municipal kindergartens, but also the private kindergartens, for approx. Half of the children go to private kindergartens, and it has been crucial for us to have a predictable funding system in place for private kindergartens. And then we have challenges, that is. we have ambitions for further development in terms of quality. So here's no reason to lean back and say, "No, now the kindergartens are in order, here we have to follow."
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e857	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State has been sitting here in the Chamber and followed the debate on child protection here today. We see that we have a big challenge in municipal child protection, and we know that there are now very many children who have problems and who need to be seen. We also know that a lot of these children go to kindergarten. We know that a lot of babysitting people are afraid to take things up, because they're going to have a relationship with child protection. They are afraid that if they warn or tell us something, they might do something wrong. In any case, after meeting with the KS, we know that KS is also concerned that kindergartens are not following up on child protection issues. It's also a NOCUT investigation that's going to do better on this. But my question is, what will the Council of State do with those who are already employed in kindergartens, and who may not want to take any further education? What will she do to make kindergarten workers follow up children who suffer and need help?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e868	It is essential, as the replicator points out, that more attention is given, more courage and better skills to alert children in kindergarten who are concerned about. We know that there is probably significant under-warning among employees. Whether it's because you're not trained to look for what can be signs of abuse or abuse, or whether it's because it's hard for us adults to believe, maybe, that children can be treated like children sometimes become – it's quite complex. But the awareness of that -- I totally agree with that -- we need to get up on child protection. There is a part of the municipalities that will now follow up both with regard to municipal and private kindergartens in order to further develop the competences of kindergarten workers. It's not just about pre-school teachers, it's also about the assistants in kindergartens, because they're often more hours with the kids, and two thirds of those who work in kindergartens are assistants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e875	We can read in the paper that central workers' party representatives responsible for family policy here at Stortinget want to force kindergarten. As far as I remember, the Council of State has also stated that you are positive to look at the compulsory nursery for immigrant children. In the right we want it to be up to parents to choose care solutions for their children. Right is for freedom of choice for all parents. We don't want to deprive a group of people of freedom of choice just because they have immigrant backgrounds. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is it so that the government will now continue to work with compulsory kindergarten for all children? And can we interpret the signals that have come so far as such work is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e884	The Brenna Committee, which has recently presented its position, had as part of its mandate to assess whether it wanted to apply for compulsory kindergarten. They concluded that they would not present such a proposal now, but would also make other proposals to develop the quality of kindergartens and to reduce parental pay. The committee's position is at the hearing and will soon be at the political level. What has been discussed is whether part of the offer to five-year-olds should be compulsory kindergarten. I don't think it's a topical proposal to promote now. But I share the concern that some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable children don't go to kindergarten – when they're smaller, because of the cash support, and when they're a little bigger, because their parents prioritise kindergarten differently. So to think about how one by positive means is going to get more children to share in the nursery goods, I think is very important. That is how I have also experienced the representative Stokkan-Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e891	Now it is that the cash support only applies to 1- and 2-year-olds, so it may not be the biggest concern we should have. In our time, the Council of State issued a notice on the kindergartens. There it was very good. At this point, the Right proposed to extend language monitoring at health centres, because we want children who do not go to kindergarten to have the opportunity to be discovered and helped with language stimulation before school starts. The government wants this language mapping to be in kindergarten only. That means that only children in kindergarten are covered by this. However, they are seen every single day by adults. So when one of the representatives, Stokkan-Grande, wants to change the government's policy in this area and takes up the Right proposal, we think it's very positive. Does the National Council share the Workers' Party's pediatricist's assessment and wish to agree to the Right's proposal now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e898	It is possible that there are some nuances in the Stokkan-Grande's message that I have not fully received, but I have not understood him where the replicator is now doing. I find it very difficult to understand what is really going on in terms of language mapping in kindergartens. Of course, the health centre also has to follow up the children who don't go to kindergarten, but the kindergarten is an arena to support children in their development. Now we have a selection of experts and a reference group that looks at how to get a trained look at them. Moreover, this is an area in which clear political distinctions can be seen. The right-hand side increases the maximum price. They reduce slightly in relation to income grade, but they have a net cut in the kindergarten sector of more than 400 million. kr, because the maximum rate generally increases for kindergarten parents, more than the right-hand investment in kindergartens. It's good for people to know that kindergartens are getting more expensive if there's a new majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e905	The kindergarten sector has been and is still in a raging development through a strong escalation where we are at least close to ensuring full coverage. But there are still major challenges to getting full coverage. These are the smallest children, and not least in the big cities where demographic developments are continuing. In the middle of this, kindergartens are included in the framework transfers to municipalities, and long before we are in the goal of stepping up equality between private and public kindergartens. We still get stories from the municipalities about how they view this, and how they see themselves able to care for it. Barnehage.no writes a warning: Now the kindergartens are on the cut list. So the question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that we are now getting a more varied quality in kindergartens from municipality to municipality around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e919	I believe it is important to follow closely the way in which kindergartens are now treated in the municipalities. Now the starting points of kindergarten.no are from the Councilmen's budget proposals, and with three individual municipalities as the starting point. But I will encourage all friends of the kindergarten, and all those who are concerned about this, to follow very closely with local. But it has been in the cards all the way that at the moment we had full coverage, the earmarked funds for the nursery sector were to be included in the framework. The Bondevik government announced in the municipality's 2006 proposal that this would take place from 1 January 2007. Now we've been waiting four years. It is simply because we wanted greater security around that we had a more robust kindergarten system in place in the municipalities before we did. But that's all there is to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e927	I saw that the Council of State came with me when I told them about Left's alternative state budget, so I asked a little about it. One of the big bets in our state budget is on poverty, especially in small children's families. One of the bets we have is on the income graded parental payment. It's one of the things that's gone away in many places around the country. As a result of the reform from Stortinget, many of the low-income families have become the losers, while we have transferred tens of thousands of dollars to high-paid families. My question to the Council of State is whether she will consider what the Left has now presented in its alternative budget, that of creating a system of grants that allows families with the lowest wages to also get cheaper kindergartens, so that we not only run a reform that goes for those with high incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e936	This has not only been a reform for those with high incomes, but it is true that low income families have had less reductions in their kindergarten rates than those who have initially paid full prices. Gradual payment is part of the Brenna Committee's proposal, which is now at the hearing, and we will of course consider them seriously. That being said, I am very concerned that we have good universal welfare arrangements in Norway that include all, and that we pay by ability when we pay taxes. I think it's important to have a break-up on fiscal policy just to have a fair distribution system. I also think it is more effective in relation to the offers we have with regard to children and possibly other specialities. For example, if a family with incomes of NOK 200,000 suddenly gets a job opportunity of NOK 300,000, but thus loses a discount in kindergartens, it can be very little profitable to act on the labour market – so that you take the challenges you get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e943	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e946	Last night I had fun reading the budget debate with the Consumer and Administrative Committee in December 1992, 18 years ago. I wanted to check how the debate went on when the spring quota was introduced for the first time, and I see many similarities with today's debate. The chairman of the Committee began by saying that we have behind us a year of crises at home and abroad, banking crisis, insurance crisis and unemployment. The Labour Party's Marit Rotnes could tell that despite difficult economic times, the Labour Party has put children and young people at the top of its list of priority issues. For the Workers' Party, it is important to join measures that give parents more choice and more time to their children. Freedom of choice was obviously a theme at the time. 1993 was also the year in which the offensive action on child protection was launched, following a three-year escalation. Erna Solberg and Trond Jensrud turned to the large heights, while the centre party was more concerned that a proposal for the removal of consumer subsidies on milk would increase the burden on the economy of families with children. In 1992, too, the government had raised the issue of equal pay, at that time through an equality report. And as was pointed out in the debate: there's a lot of mess here. The parallels are many, and there's obviously a part that seems to go in a circle. As to emphasize just that, indeed Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen emerges in that debate as well. It is also worth mentioning that the debate pointed out that Norway was high in the statistics on infant mortality in 1992. It's actually no longer since. So much has gone forward. I can also point out that if the vote in this very debate is representative of all the votes at that time, there has also been great progress in this area, despite the fact that the President may experience frustration among the representatives' inability to vote correctly. I mention all of this because it may seem like we are already now, so soon after, taking a lot too much for granted, and that in the debate on freedom of choice, the many battles that have ensured that we have today among the world's best schemes for young children's parents, and that although there may seem to be a lot of things going on in circles, there has been great progress. Since the increase in the number of weeks and the introduction of the parental quota in 1993, we have gone on and on – all in order to ensure freedom of choice for families, not only for those who would be at home but also for those who would work, not only for women but also for men, not only for parents but also for children. In parallel, we have expanded to full child-care coverage, including this to ensure full, real freedom of choice. There has always been the left side of Norwegian policy with the Workers' Party at the head that has dragged the right side afterwards in these matters. The right-hand side has been talking about freedom of choice, but we are the ones who have implemented it. That's what we're going to do. This government has done it promised. We've increased the number of permissive weeks. We've expanded the feather quota, and we've given several fathers the opportunity to make use of it. In other words, we have increased freedom of choice. We have secured full child-care coverage, and with the increase in freedom of choice. We have provided e.g. through the maximum price in kindergarten. a family with two children, a tax relief of NOK 20 000 per year – increased freedom of choice. What does the Right have to offer? Yes, the removal of the spring quota and a tax regime that means that a person with income of between 350000 and 400000 kroner will receive NOK 2 000 more to travel with this year. It's almost enough to pay the extra 200 kroner each month that kindergarten space is going to cost with your proposal – a bit of an freedom of choice, I have to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e963	The red-green parties – government parties – have a unique competence. They know the negative consequences of the Progress Party's policy. But they don't know what are the negative consequences of their own policies. It's a unique competence. In the Roman newspaper Akershus's largest newspaper, it says: «Refser Bufetat». ‘Politics are warning about long processing times and lack of quality’. Buffetat is governed more by the economy than by the best interests of children. Both child protection and politicians in Lørenskog are concerned about the quality of the offer from the Children's, Youth and Family Status. It's a unanimous local government in Lørenskog that's worried. They know what is the consequence of government policy. Child protection in several places in the country is at the frontier to drive irresponsibly. There have been large increases in the number of children to be followed in 12 counties, without the number of employees. In several counties, the number of jobs was reduced, but more than 200 children were taken care of. It is clear that this is seen by those who work in the municipalities and in the first line service. The consequences for children are that in some cases they have to live longer under difficult conditions. What's also problematic for the children is that they can lose faith that there's someone out there who can help them. Think how difficult it is. In a response from the county council, it says: ‘Many children and families do not receive the assistance they require in due time’. The cause of the problems is a sharp increase in the number of cases compared to the number of employees. I have the impression that the situation is the same in many, many municipalities. I have a quote from Siri, who is a child protection child: "I can't move again now. I used to live in Sogn and Fjordane, Tønsberg, Drammen and Hokksund. I find it hard to make new friends all the time. It's hard if my home goes bankrupt, like that! I don't know what's happening to me then, I'm probably going to go far to hell. It's as tight as it can be.' And if you don't hear the frustration here, I don't know. Children are entitled to a future – all children, including those with parents who have come into difficult situations. Children are needed, but it costs, and the amounts will increase as society gets harder and harder. Gro said, "Everything is related to everything." However, today’s government is able to see the context in the near future — how investment in a field can reduce expenditure today or more often in the future. In the social security sector, there is an agency responsible for the purchase and allocation of aids to people with different mobility barriers, but repairs are carried out and paid elsewhere. This has led to the disposal of good and expensive aids. We're still looking at that. It's easier for one hand to turn a new acquisition bill over to the other than to pay the repair yourself. These challenges also exist in the field of child protection. Researchers at NOVA have shown that almost three out of four former children with child protection have received social assistance after they reach the age of 18. In comparison, only 8 pst was received. of all persons aged 20 to 24 years in social assistance last year. When you know that you shouldn't be in a place for a long time, you don't invest much in the relationships you have there. It's really sad, because that's exactly what these kids need. The keyword must be of quality, continuity and predictability. These words are also given in feedback from children who are just up in this situation, as you can see around the municipalities. I think it is quite impressive when the government parties stand and criticize the Party of Advancement when they are criticized by, for example. a unanimous local government for its own policy. Why not just pick up a phone and hear what challenges each municipality has to face? I would like to raise the proposals and proposals of the Progress Party in which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1000	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1003	There is little doubt that we live in a more equal society than we did 50 years ago. Only in my young life have we received many rights and laws that promote a more equal society. But I'm worried when I hear the right side's constant misalignment in the equality debate. Whenever a right party sounds like a right party or something. Putting down the gender equality environment and removing the birth rate, because now people are going to decide for themselves, or now people are going to make themselves equal, I fear that many people are getting a delusion of what society really is like. The policy of the right-hand side, and in particular the so-called equality policy of the Progress Party, is, in large measure, a policy to go backwards into the future. For no, girls, we're not done equal, and no, all men and fathers, they're also not finished equal, and yes, I believe in schemes, in laws, in law, in law and in new dishes to serve for a development and not a retreat in equality policy. In order for us to continue and fight for a more equal society, we need to continue with a conscious equality policy. Yes, I'm a woman and I can speak in public assemblies. And yes, I'm a woman and I can take higher education and nursing during the lunch break. But in 2010 it's not going to be the scale of whether we're equal, because, dear sisters, it's still the way we girls take the greatest responsibility in the world. It's still the way that the people think more than us, and we do actually profession as traditional as we have always done. Nor has the parental leave scheme been equal enough. These things are related. We as girls must both give and demand to achieve equal pay, in order to achieve equality. In 2009, there were 302 complaints and 1624 referrals. The basis for discrimination is dominated by gender and ethnicity. In contrast to the Progress Party, our government wants to have a mandate that works proactively in the fight against all discrimination in society. We can't just lean back, let's go back and hope people fix this for themselves. Nor do we want it to be so that people have to go the way of justice to be protected from discrimination — a way that costs money and too much money. We want all those who feel that they are discriminated against in spite of our laws and regulations to be able to get help and guidance. It's like a saying in the coach: It doesn't help if you're right, if you're not getting it right. We know that the ban is needed. It is necessary for those who experience discrimination to be given the right and not just have it. All the matters that the order is given show in itself that the order is needed, and all the matters that they resolve show the same thing. The party's proposal to abolish the ban will lead to stagnation in the fight against discrimination. By abolishing the ban, we will lose the important driving role they have in discovering and pointing out conditions that are countering equality and non-discrimination. The proposal of the Progress Party will in total weaken the struggle for a more tolerant and open society. The party of progress has often characterised our policy as socialist coercion and state abuse. But I don't think people go on such a simple rhetoric. I think fathers want dishes as caregivers. I think fathers want more equality. I think those who experience discrimination want to have an order that can run their dishes free of charge. And I think women want equal pay. In order to meet these needs, we need political governance of gender equality policy. We can't give up our responsibility and say: Set this yourself, which in reality means: Fix it yourself. I want to encourage all girls to be conscious of the gender equality struggle. The work of a more equal society is not over. Giving women the right to vote, getting women out of the kitchen and into the labour market and introducing leave schemes is a fundamental issue. For years now, we have been fighting for the foundation wall to become solid, and it is high time to continue working with the rest of the building – the traveling work, glass panes, doors and roofs on. I don't want the right side to rage this built and trick us into thinking that it's complete. We must solve the gender equality challenges together and not leave the responsibility of individual citizens alone to fix themselves. We should take that responsibility together with and on behalf of those who have chosen us, on behalf of those who have made us elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1024	In Norway, we have a consumer policy that ensures us consumers in a number of areas. The draft budget as presented today is a confirmation of that. And there is reason to state that our consumer policy rights are not a static system, which is clearly stated by the government in its draft budget. We need to work both nationally and internationally to secure and further develop our systems. We need to adapt to new needs and also developments that we see happen around us. Consumer rights have traditionally been a national task, where we ourselves have defined the level. Gradually, we have implemented a number of EU directives. Some have strengthened our rights, but we also see proposals for directives that we feel threaten our rights in several areas. I am thinking in particular of the proposal for a new common European consumer directive. The new Consumer Directive will be adopted in the spring of 2011. The Committee endorses the requirement that this Directive should not be adopted, as suggested. However, I am concerned by the signals from the work of the IMCO Committee in Brussels. Exposure is important, and therefore I think it is necessary that we, as Norwegian parliamentarians, have to talk to our sister parties in the European Parliament to try to influence the decision on the new Consumer Directive. In the European Parliament, it is also the case that power prevails. The social-democratic side stands up against the civil side, which is also behind the proposal for the new Consumer Directive for all EU countries – and there we stand today. It is also necessary to have a domestic focus. Fortunately, everything will not be adopted in Brussels. We have a decisive authority in what and where we will also give priority in consumer policy. To go into these priorities by cutting 3 million. kr in basic appropriations to the Consumer Council, as will be done on the right, have consequences. Cuts in the basic appropriations will make it difficult to maintain the capacity of the regional apparatus, and this will weaken regional consumer protection and what is a central first-line service for legal advice in the districts. Knowledge is power and also a prerequisite for consumer power. Knowledge enables consumers to make informed and conscious choices, which may thus affect a market through their actions. The financial portal has been and is an important tool for providing increased knowledge to its users. When the portal is now extended to include insurance services as well as working to find solutions that make it better for the blind and partially sighted to use the portal, it is very positive. It is also nice to note that the government proposes to increase the allocation of the Eco-labels Swan and Flower by 1 million. kr. The main reason is to raise environmental awareness about product choices for us consumers. I note that the Progress Party is in favour of eco-labelling, but that is only in words, because in its draft budget they cut in the schemes with just 1.1 million. kr. We go into a time when the money is loosed between our hands, and we don't have money, we are lured with the most fantastic offers of cheap money: Loans up to 300,000 kroner with no security and security requirements! And the last message is the part of the ad that's going to catch your attention. This kind of advertising should, in my view, be illegal, alone, because it contributes greatly to creating debt slaves, young people who are elderly. Old debts are paid with new credit cards. It's not durable. I and many with me are very concerned about the increase we see in debt problems among private households, especially among young people. In order to deal with this major problem, it needs to cooperate, from the public via our consumer organisations, banks, credit card companies and perhaps not least the most important of all: the young people themselves. Here too, the key word is knowledge, knowledge of understanding the consequences of having a high debt burden, understanding how to avoid getting into a debt situation. At the same time, it is important to help those who are in a difficult debt situation. Good solutions are then required that require cooperation between many parties. But it must be allowed to point a finger at the card companies and others who are running such aggressive marketing as we are registering. For this reason, I am pleased that the Consumer Ombudsman alerts a review of whether today's marketing is in line with the Marketing Act. Anyway, something has to be done to stop the galloping debt trend we see happening among many of our young people. It can't be allowed to continue. We all have a responsibility. We can all do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1052	The right side continues its ideological crusades against a public equality policy. It's interesting to see that the right-hand side is attacking the Workers' Party and calling our equality policy old-fashioned. It's tempting to say that you should listen to the right side when you talk about old-fashioned equality policy, because they're the jam experts on it. The truth is that, with the equality policy of the right, we would have gone back ten years in time: the abolition of the gender equality and discrimination ombudsman, by quota, and they have a fiscal policy that will serve primarily rich men. They also want to remove the father's quota. That's interesting, because if we look at Denmark, we did it in 2001. There's one out of four fathers taking out the daddy's quota. In Norway there are nine out of ten. It is tempting to ask the Right whether it is such that Danish men are less happy with their children, or is it also such that removing rights for fathers leads to less real freedom of choice? If the policy of the right becomes a reality, it means the end of one of Norway’s finest exports, namely equality. ‘The one that comes to ten seas,’ it says. This is also true in gender equality policy and in the illusion that we are equal. That's the biggest obstacle to achieving real equality. To an equally important theme, namely the children. Children are often asked what to become when they grow up. The answers are many. Someone wants to be a princess, a director, a doctor or a teacher. The dreams are many. But I think with my hand on my heart I can say that there are no children in this country who have a dream of being a criminal when they grow up, despite there are some youths who end up on the slope. One of the main prevention measures is the provision of a safe and good framework for all children around growth. That job is done primarily in Norwegian homes and by parents and family. Children who get a good growth get a good start in life. But we know that not all parents are able to give their children the growth they deserve. These children are the ones who need the community the most. They need the big community to set up. If these children fail, we know that the consequences can be disastrous, not only for the children, but also for the community around them. We know that very many of those in Norwegian prisons have had a difficult childhood. Many children have grown up without stable and good adult relations. An American author once said, "Children who are not loved become adults who cannot love." That's exactly why it's so important that we get a real commitment to child protection. Fortunately, many more children now benefit from child protection. There is good reason to praise many of them who every day make an invaluable effort for many children. When the number of child protection messages almost doubled since 2000, there is evidence that the confidence in child protection has increased in the population. The paradox is that good work and increased trust lead to more cases and more to do. That's why the government's taking hold. It's high time we had a new force for child protection. I am therefore proud to be part of a majority that helps to give the greatest promise to municipal child protection of 20 years. We know that there are major challenges for children and young people in larger urban communities. It is important to support projects for those who are not at the disposal of other organised activities. Targeted youth actions are good prevention policies in terms of violence, bullying, crime and drug addiction. So it's positive that the government has a total of 48.5 million. for measures for children in larger urban communities. In 2007, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion produced an experiential booklet entitled ‘Vote Was and After Soon’, covering nine projects related to youth, gangs and crime. The title of the booklet is good. We must have a policy that is good and prevents. However, when something wrong has happened, it is important to be quick to respond, intervene and initiate measures. The examples from the booklet show that it is useful and that it is possible to reverse a negative trend. But it requires creativity and hard work, and you're totally dependent on good multidisciplinary cooperation. This is why prevention is a good social economy. But first of all, it's important to give children and young people a better life, because we don't have any kids to lose. The red-green government has spent the large amount of money strengthening the community and good welfare arrangements. We can do that because we don't give priority to tax relief to those who already have the most. Everything is related to everything, and with this policy we make sure that more children can actually realize their dreams when they grow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1071	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1074	Although women's participation in employment in Norway is very high, there are still considerable differences between women and men, both in terms of wages and in terms of choice of occupation and challenge. Therefore, I am very pleased that the government has now submitted a big message about pay. Still, women only have 85 pst. of men's wages and salaries, and we see that the pay gap between women and men follows the sex-shared labour market. Then it is good that we provide for more equal parents, and that we have an effective follow-up to the right to equal pay. Then we aim to ensure more gender balance in education and work. It's still just 3 pst. girls in car and electrical sciences, and only 9 pst. boys as well as health and care professionals. To get an equal society, I think we have to break traditional choices in challenge and profession. But the most important thing is maybe we can give our youth twice as many opportunities and chances to actually use their talent. Therefore, strengthening the school's advice is also a very good step in the message. We know that professional choices are often based on what young people know, and driving their cars. The consultants have little influence. So we need to get a better consultation so that our young people can see what opportunities actually exist – maybe a consulting service that gives room to experience the subject. There are many interesting professional subjects, which I think many could have enjoyed learning more about. It is important when our young people are untraditional, that they are offered apprenticeships, and that they are taken care of in the workplace. I have already talked about the project Jenter in Bil & Elektro. It is a collaborative project between LO, NHO, companies within the electro and car sector and education authorities. The project goes into four counties. And the companies that are involved may not be because they are so interested in gender equality, but because they see that in the struggle for the labour force they want the best labour force. The goal of the project is to get 20 pst. girls by 2020 in the holdings included. And the girls participate in a girl network both because they're going to have a meeting place, and because they can help make the project even better. We think the template for this project might as well have been used to get more guys into typical girls' professions. I think we need to continue with extra measures and influence if we want to change the gender-based labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1088	Early last week we had a round table conference here at the Stortinget on violence in close relations. It's a very important topic when we talk about equality and the most vulnerable kids. What we know is that the path from care failure and child violence to the drug, sick and disabled adult is paved with strong research that the relationship is unique. We know this. That is why it is so important that we now have to strengthen municipal child protection over several years. We did this last year – add money – and it turned out, unfortunately, that the municipalities greatly strengthened municipal child protection, many of which have been up here and said that the municipalities have been busy. Yes, they're concerned about it, but when they don't manage to strengthen municipal child protection so much that the kids who need help get it fast, we have to earmark money. It is very important that we now have earmarked money to strengthen and ensure that the most vulnerable kids actually get help. Then we're going to go through state child protection. It is important, because it is not possible to do as the opposition does, namely cut with axe in the state child protection, send all that money to the local government sector and believe that the problem has been solved for the most vulnerable kids. No, there are young people today waiting for measures from state child protection, with problems that municipal child protection cannot solve. It is the most disadvantaged children who now need the help of state child protection, and this may well be organised differently in the future. SV was not exactly a driver of the reform that several of the opposition parties are really behind, and to which they are so critical today. But we have to be so serious on behalf of these kids that we can't do the cuts that the Progress Party and the Right do in the budget in the State Child Protection, because it's going to hit the kids who have big problems today. So we can't be familiar with that. So there's been a lot of talk about kindergarten. Yes, kindergarten is a very important measure for those young people who have difficulties, but it is still often the case that the obligation of professional secrecy is more important than the obligation to notify some of the most difficult young people. I have experience working in kindergarten, and perhaps one of the reasons why in kindergarten you can be reluctant to report matters, that the experience with child protection locally is that it's not on the plate with help once, that the only thing that happens is that the trust between kindergarten and parents is broken, and that children lose the only place they're safe throughout the day. We need to solve this in order for the reporting obligation to be real.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1099	The lead spokeswoman of the Advance Party in this debate, Solvency Horne, stressed what she called parental responsibility, as a counterpart to what she called the guardian state, that is, where, as a society, we actually find ourselves wanting to set limits and framework for parental responsibility. Now Horne was talking about parental leave, but I saw this as the principle position of the Progress Party, and it's quite dangerous. It's this attitude that makes us, as a society, actually hesitate to intervene against families that, for various reasons, are unable to take care of their children. It is this attitude that, in many cases, parenthood is more important than child protection. My local, Tønsbergs Blad, has recently put the spotlight on what we can call poor children, and I myself have had the opportunity to follow this up in discussions with local school staff, employees of the SFO and child protection. Now poverty is a relative concept, and there is hardly one measure, one grip, that eliminates poverty. There are total efforts in many areas over time that work, and we know that. It impresses me when I meet kids who can't go to a birthday party with their friends because their parents can't afford a gift, or when kids can't participate in sports or leisure activities because their parents can't afford to pay the quota. In some municipalities child protection pays such expenses. And many sports teams and organizations are leaving to demand quota of children from families with poor advice. But it takes more. Many parents don't have the opportunity to drive the kids to a football game and can't stand the cake for the Christmas lottery at the club – and then it's that if you're going skiing, you're actually going to have to ski. Some of the problem is that this is perceived as pure alms, i.e. charity, which further helps stigmatize children and families. I am a strong supporter of activity for children and young people, and there are schemes in many municipalities that do not act stigmatizing and that give children and young people from poor families the opportunity to participate in the same leisure activities as everyone else. It costs a few dollars, but the money is there if we want. That's why I think we should seriously discuss how to exchange the 300 million. as around 120 Norwegian municipalities take from the poorest children by adding child benefit to the calculation basis for social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1108	On Friday, the Municipal and Administrative Committee held its budget debate in this Chamber. I made a brief statement about municipal child protection, and about the concerns we are still receiving from the municipalities about the capacity of municipal child protection. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the government acknowledges the need here, and that the government has invested extra funds for municipal child protection. It shows that the government has seen the Christian People's Party, that exceptional measures are necessary if we are to be able to achieve a real increase in the number of first-line employees, a capacity extension. But what I put a little bit of emphasis on in my short article is that what we in the Christian People's Party lack in government policy is a long-term and binding escalation that meets the needs of municipalities for predictability and long-term sustainability in terms of municipal child protection. On the same day that we in the Municipal and Administrative Committee had our debate, we could read in one of the county newspapers in Telemark that my municipality of origin, Skien, had received a fine of $100,000. It was a fine because they were unable to follow up the children who had been registered for child protection. They were unable to make an offer to them within the time limit set. This does not happen because child protection does not do its job. This does not happen because local politicians in the Ski are not concerned with child protection. This happens because there is a lack of money, and responsibility must be taken by the government and the big business. I hope that the municipality of Skien sends the fine to the red-green government. Today we could read in Telemarksaviera that the neighbouring municipality, Porsgrund, is also struggling with long waiting lists. The child protection manager in Porsgrünn asks for funds for three additional posts to reduce the number on the waiting list. That is the problem – capacity is not large enough, children are on the waiting list, and children do not get the help they need in a timely manner. Municipal child protection must have enough resources, the capacity must be large enough. We can't live with the fact that concerns messages are not followed up, and that children who need help don't get them, or that the help is too late. What I finished my post with last Friday, I want to end with now as well: One child who is in line, or who is not followed up at the right time, is one child too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1119	The fight against apostasy in the secondary school must start in the kindergarten. There are many reasons for this, but I want to stress how important it is that the school and kindergarten now have a common value base. This means that kindergartens are given a much clearer social mandate, while at the same time we decide that kindergartens should pass on a holistic view of learning, where play and care on the one hand together with learning and building on the other is the very foundation for young people's diverse development. These values have been and should be a special feature of the Norwegian kindergarten tradition. These are qualities that, therefore, go like a red thread through the Soria Moria declaration. I have to admit that I am both proud and not so humble when I visit kindergartens like for example. Oldestova kindergarten at Hafslo, where my daughter Anna Maria – who is well over three and a half years old – leaves. I experience a fantastic commitment from the staff in relation to the job, and I experience a strong loyalty to the framework plan and an enthusiasm for precisely the kindergarten's social responsibility. The last year has been a good interaction between central and local authorities with a view to putting in place full child care coverage and the right to a place. For this reason, I am also very confident that we will be able to further develop the nursery when it comes to the quality side. The new scope paragraph for kindergartens is much more inclusive and is based on a fundamental respect that we live in a multicultural and diverse society. That means we have to practice common values like equivalency and solidarity across different cultures. These are basic social values that children will take with them in the next round to build future communities. But if we're going to do it, we're going to need more preschool teachers, and we're going to have to add both pediatric and pediatric knowledge. Some time ago, I was delighted to see how the Sogn Regional Council, through a new national crime, takes on the quality development of kindergartens in parishes. Together with the High School of Sogn and Fjordane, Nav and the Federation of Education, the municipalities take responsibility for the leadership training of the rulers, the assistant rulers, the educational leaders and the leaders at municipal level – exactly what the Council of State said in its statement. They focus on creative kindergartens with a focus on innovation and entrepreneurship. That's the jam quality. And because a force to see this whole thing in the school and kindergarten system, this too, in the next round, will probably help to reduce the decline in the secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1134	There has been a fine debate, and there are several themes that could be tempting to comment on. First, I would like to comment on Aasland's posts in relation to child protection. It's true that it's starting to put money into place – all credit for it. I think the discussion we're approaching is going to be about the role of municipalities. The right-hand budget this year is like a signal in that direction. But the question is this borderline between the municipal part of child protection and the state part of child protection, whether it's in the right place. And I think that's a very real question. I think we need to have an open approach to that. What I miss a little bit from the government is a greater openness about that topic and several initiatives in relation to meeting the municipalities, also in terms of how they organise themselves in practice. One important point when we shaped child protection as it has become today was that small municipalities were a problem, both in terms of networks, competences and a number of such things. What we see is that many small municipalities for their own computer have found it right to work in networks. Many small municipalities have their own drive towards strengthening their foundations for good child protection. That, I think, could be a good starting point for the government to settle on the legs of some pilots, some pilot projects, from which it would be very useful to gain experience in the evaluation work that the government is now doing. This is reflected, for example: Also in what was one of Andersen's points, that the obligation of professional secrecy was more important than the obligation to report, as she said, i.e. this trust between municipal child protection and in her case kindergarten, but I think I could also say school. It's a hugely important trust relationship, and it's a very critical point when children are brought into the child protection context – as we see it is a difficult area. We see that there are a lot of anxiety messages that are not taken into account, and we see that here there is something that squeaks, that should be done with. In the five years that we have now been in opposition, the right has proposed some measures, some practical things. Maybe it was something to go back to and see if you could get hold of. State Council Aasland was so pleased with the Finansportalen. We have also proposed a portal for child protection services. Maybe it's just as important to tell about them as it is to tell about the financial services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1149	When the Workers' Party is talking about family policy, it's because we care about the family. When we make arrangements to expand the world's best parental leave scheme, it's because we care about the family, the whole family. We care about the children, so we propose a long parental leave and good, safe, stimulating kindergartens. We care about mother, with security through pregnancy, during the leave period, and when she starts work again, with an hour paid without breast-feeding a day. And we care about Dad. We believe that Father should have a real opportunity to share in his or her own family life with his or her child. So this is the right side and the right side. They don't want it like that. They say they're thinking about the best of the children. Isn't it the best thing for children to be close to both parents? Another argument they put forward is that this is becoming more difficult for men who do not work in public. The truth is, it's especially those who benefit from this. Finally, they can have someone in their back when they go to the employer and say that they will be home for 12 weeks with their child. It's a real choice. And even though the Progress Party and the Right are so very opposed to this real election, they strongly argue that you have to get compensation if you don't use the good. It's a very subliminal perception of how the welfare state works. It's e.g. not that you can get cash for what it costs to have your child in the fourth grade if you take it out of school, or money again if you have not had a hole and have not drilled in all your teeth when you are eighteen. Family policy is linked to equality. When you see that there's a huge pay gap between the sexes, you can choose to do something about it, or you can choose not to do anything about it. We chose to do something about it. The parental leave contributes to ensuring that women and men are equal in the employment process. This is the Right and Advance Party against. It is not so strange when the latter says that ‘state policy in the field of gender equality and discrimination is a major failure’. Nevertheless, later in the vote they are very political when they talk about the feather quota. They call this huge grip for the family and for equality a ‘socialist coercion’. This cannot, of course, be the most parliamentary expression in the world. I've never seen a socialist coercion, and I don't know exactly what it looks like. But from history, it can be thought that a socialist coercion is like everything that citizens have opposed in family policy and equality. If ‘socialist coercion’ is the right of women to vote, full child-care coverage, breast-free, to address the pay gap between women and men, to take care of the entire family’s right to be together, and a father’s quota, then it sounds quite fine, especially when the Right Party and the Advance Party option is the removal of father’s quota and more expensive kindergarten. That's a good old-fashioned loss situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1160	Actually, I should be flattered to be mentioned so many times in a debate in Stortinget. But the way in which the Right has read my interview in the Newspaper makes it very clear that it is required with increased bet on reading skills in school. Because the way they read that interview is something special. Let me take this opportunity to say something about what the idea of such a play was actually. And let me first say that the vast majority of children today have a good and safe childhood. Most arrows point in the right direction. At the same time, we can read almost daily in the newspapers about children who are failing, about too many young people who are struggling with poor self - image, suicidal thoughts, eating disorders, etc. We who are responsible for family policy have an obligation to ask why so many people are struggling in our society, what society is doing to our children. That is what I want a debate on. I'm afraid that we can face potentially huge class divisions between the children who are grown by their parents and the children who are being neglected, between those who do well in school and those who fall outside, between those who have good health and those who are struggling with, for example. obesity, between rich and poor, and between those under strong social control and those without frontiers. We also spend a lot of time in this room debating how to create the best possible welfare services to meet the new challenges. But we cannot solve this solely by taking more responsibility from the public. We must dare to ask some difficult questions, and we must dare to rethink family policy. We need to get out of the debate about what is the right family, about how we can contribute to the family, large or small, ensuring good and safe growth conditions, and how we can strengthen each child to gain self-confidence, self-respect and self-confidence. I actually thought the right parties agreed to that, but I record that they do not want to take this debate, nor fall into ideological dogmas. We have all seen examples of children who could get a better life if they had been helped early enough. These kids don't have a chance. two, and in the most extreme cases you have to say, now we can't wait any longer. In fact, if the four-year check reveals a lack of language and motor skills, I believe that the warning lights flash so strongly that you have to be willing to assess the mandatory free kindergarten for these children. Many research reports point out that kindergarten is the best response for just such children. Kids deserve the best we can give them. They should not say: I could have done well, only I had received help earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1171	Four years ago, Audun Lysbakken and I launched a signature campaign on the Internet called pappaperm.no. I'm here today, but I guess we can say that the Audun Lighthouse has come a little bit further in fulfilling the third of the maternity leave than I have. He's probably sitting at home listening to this big debate, I know him right. The reason we started that job was because we were engaged with equivalent parenting. I have been engaged in that question from when I was a little boy – as an eight-year-old I think – called the radio and insisted that I was a happy divorce child. That time, as you know, all the divorce children were unhappy. I thought it wasn't like that, and the reason was that I had two parents who took responsibility for equivalent parenting. I have always been concerned later that it is a good thing that all kids should experience. It's very rare that we in political crafts get across so incredibly universal instruments, and something that acts as universal means like thirds of maternity leave actually does. From the time we started that campaign, we've gone from four weeks to five and six weeks – when we came into government – to ten weeks, and today we're going to adopt twelve weeks' paper commission. So it's proof that politics and political campaign work when you only have good enough arguments and are persevering enough. For this with a third of the maternity leave is good for dad, because you get to be much better attached to your kids when the kids are young, and that's good for mom, because this works out the way that mom is more viewed as an equal employee with dad. Everyone has heard stories about women being discriminated against in the labour market. Everyone knows how important it is: the two government councils sitting here have had posts pointing to Swedish research, which show just how a better distribution of the paper industry leads to the pay gap between women and men being densed, and that is good for the kids – the latter is the most important thing. And when one is gradually getting through it gripped to make sure that it gets better for the kids, better for the father and better for the mother, then it's just to toast to all those who have been on the road: May Hansen – who was one of the first to promote such a suggestion here in the main hall – Gunn Karin Gjul, SV-ere, Audun Lysbakken, Arild Stokkan-Grande and everyone else who has been involved in ensuring that this actually becomes reality. So it's as simple as the difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side-- so of course. And we know what happens if the Right Party and the Advance Party take over – then this system rages.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1182	I must say that I appreciate the enthusiasm and commitment of the representative Holmås and that we have managed to reach so far in such a short time. However, what is a little more worrying is the proposal promoted by the Right and the Advance Party, where they ‘call on the Government to take action to give all fathers the independent right to benefit and the right of withdrawal to the parental quota given that mother complies with the requirements of the obligation of activity’. The point is that it was introduced from 1 July 2009. The fact is that when only father has earned the right to parental leave, he may take parental leave on a sea-going basis provided that mother meets the activity requirement. She must go to work or study, or be too sick to care for the child. In such cases, the father may take up to 37/47 weeks, i.e.: nine weeks less than the total period of benefit, when the mother has earned the right. The three weeks before birth and the six weeks after birth, which are reserved for mother, are deducted from this period. In the past, the spring quota was deducted in such cases. This was therefore amended with effect from 1 July 2009. The Council of State that introduced it is sitting here as Minister of Culture today and can confirm it. If the Right and Advance Party are still in doubt that this is the case, they can turn up in Ot. pp. No 56 for 2008-2009, where the second column of page 6 reads: ‘The Ministry proposes to strengthen the rights of fathers by disregarding the principle of deducting the parental quota from which only father is entitled to parental leave. This group of fathers will then be right throughout the period with the exception of the nine weeks reserved for mother. This gives a maximum withdrawal for these fathers of 37/47 weeks.’» So it was a change that was made in the People's Security Act § 14-14. That is why I think it is wise for the Right and the Progress Party to withdraw this proposal, because it would be foolish to vote in favour of a proposal that was already adopted in the Grand Duchy a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1199	There has been a good debate, but there was a little moment when I wondered if I had come to a March 8th event when there were some articles about equality. Let me make it quite clear: the Progress Party also wants equality. But unlike the government parties, who are talking about gender equality all the time – they have to have quotas, they have to have quotas, and it's like equal opportunities – and equality for the Progress Party is also to bet on women who are oppressed. Not one second I heard that someone was talking about those who live in Norway, who are oppressed, and who are also subject to forced marriage. But we are going to come back to this in the debate on equality in relation to the gender equality message to be addressed after Christmas. That is what the Progress Party is looking forward to. Then it's a pleasure to listen to the representative Stokkan-Grande, and it was a fun story reading he came up with here now. It's been 20 years, and I want to remind the representatives that it's the Workers' Party that has run this country most of these years, without us seeing the huge improvements in some things. So state councillor Aasland says it's time for municipal child protection to get a lift. Even Karin Andersen admits that there were several municipalities that did not use it to strengthen municipal child protection last year, but that they are now going to do so. That's great. The Progress Party supports the government's proposal to strengthen municipal child protection, but the Progress Party believes it is not enough. Being accused in this room because we cut with axes, I must say is quite grave. But I comfort myself that attack is the best defense, so when they can't defend their own budget, they attack the Progress Party. The progress party doesn't cut the child protection. We're strengthening municipal child protection. When we are then accused of cutting in the state child protection because there are so many jobs and so many jobs, I would like to remind the representatives that there are 28 teams who do not have contact with the children who need help at all. The municipalities themselves say that they want to take over quite a lot of that work. They're being run over by Bufetat. The municipalities themselves want to be able to place the children around, and with the Advance Party budget, the municipalities are strengthened. Then I can comfort the representative of Gullvåg that the Progress Party has faith in the family. The family is one of the most important pillars, and the state can never assume that responsibility. Then the representative talks so much about him being afraid of those who can't afford to buy skis, and can't afford to go and buy gifts. Well, we hope he has the same concern about the families who are out there today and are concerned about how to afford to pay things, because there are so high power prices in Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1217	I'm a little surprised when I hear the debate today. There are 180 children in line to have a foster family. There are 39 children in line for institutional space, and there are several thousand child-restraint cases posted every year. What do the government and the red-green do with that? Well, the red-greens stand here in the hall and blame the opposition, and they hack and criticize. They don't come up with any thoughts, have no ambitions, no visions of what to do for the poor children who are out there, and who expect political action. I think it is petty that when we have here a debate on child protection and the future of these children, we come and accuse the opposition of being false. I had also hoped that, when you sit on the Stortinget, you will see that there is a difference between cuts and red-greens, that there is a difference between beings – especially since it is also the red-greens way of defending themselves. I don't think they're very comfortable with the right is the ones that increase the funding for child protection in the municipalities, while we cut 300 million. in the State Children's Protection Bureau, where everyone comes and proposes such a cut. I think it's also very special that when the red-green people speak about such a serious issue as child protection, they use strong words. The head of the family committee goes out and says that the Right is raging child protection. Kristina Nilsson Ramsøy, the representative of the Center Party, says that the Right is raging child protection. SV sets off at a level where they say that the Right Play Russian rule with these children. I am concerned that responsible politicians, with the primary responsibility for child protection, are suggesting that we have a debate at this level. I am concerned that we have a government and red-green politicians in Stortinget who do not use this opportunity to make constructive actions, proposals on how to improve the everyday life of children – all the time they themselves evaluate, investigate and reduce samples. It's sad. Then to the representative, Gjul. If the Right's proposal is such a big problem, you have to ask the Ministry of Finance to contact the Stortinget today. We've asked what the proceeds of our father's quota proposal are. That's what we got. We've asked how many fathers there are who don't have an independent right to profit. We've got the number of those fathers. We refer to the equal pay report, where these fathers are mentioned, who don't get parental leave because there's no father's allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1228	I use the opportunity to report that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 35, from the left. I also agree with the last speaker that it does not hold when those who are actually responsible for child protection use large parts of the debate to criticise what they rightly call unrealistic draft budgets from the Right and the Progress Party. They boast of their own state budget, without spending time talking about what you want to do in the future, and without offering anything obligatory to the Stortinge about what you want to do in the future for child protection – because that's what child protection needs. So it's also interesting to see how the debate on cardboard is again polarized between a right-hand side that doesn't understand the meaning that the paper is actually an instrument to ensure freedom of choice, because men want to have the father's quota and need it the trump card to their employers. On the other hand, you have several months of what's common, and distribute it to your parents in a pre-package that your parents have to deal with. The Christian People's Party wants to keep the feather quota as a positive tool, a positive tool/drum card for fathers, which makes it still enthusiastic, supportive and uplifting of it, so that it can be a good thing for families and equality for a long time to come. Then the representative Stokkan-Grande shows that he is concerned about a class distinction between Norwegian families. The Minister of Knowledge says she's worried about the kids who don't go to kindergarten. When I hear that the red-greens have concerns and talk about this class distinction, I get the impression that there are some people who take very good care of their children, and some who take bad care of their children – and that the best would have been something in the middle of everybody. The answer is said to be that we just have to make sure that the public takes a greater part of the care of all the children – not just the most vulnerable, but for all the children – so that it becomes an average, and that the state takes responsibility. If you don't have enough language for the four-year check – what's the reason for that? Is it because you have poor hearing, or because you need a logoped, or because you need another follow-up? For the red-green it is that kindergarten is the answer – what was the question? If the Council of State read the report from its own sample, the Brenna Committee, on kindergartens and compulsory kindergarten, she would find that the research shows that it is not necessarily the most vulnerable children who do not go to kindergarten. There are a few people who no longer use kindergarten before school. But there are actually a lot of resourceful parents who make conscious choices. Let them do it, so most of us can choose a good high-quality kindergarten, which should be good for the children and the families who choose it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1244	Representatives of the Right call for constructive action from the government, accusing government parties of unsolicited language usage. I don't think you should blame either one or the other in terms of language and characteristics. But this approach to this debate is, in fact, a very constructive proposal from the government – to increase the funding for child protection by 390 million. kr, mostly for the municipalities, and quite a lot for the state child protection. There are also proposals for historical continuations of important gender equality policies. But it is clear that they do not like these proposals, they do not seem to be constructive. I think these are very constructive proposals. I just want to mention one thing, which both the Christian People's Party and the Right, not least the Olemic Thommess, were in here. The important thing about the 240 million. kr that goes to the municipalities is that this money is earmarked, so that we are absolutely sure that they go to the necessary posts. I doubt that the municipalities will be able to get even more in place, cf. The proposal of the Right and Advance Party for even more money to the municipalities. We are concerned that the municipalities get enough money and jobs, but that they also get people in those jobs, who can do that job in the best possible way. So to the future, and the Olemic Thommessen was in. The government's plan is, first of all, to strengthen child protection now in the budget. We have already started a research evaluation of what is called this governance reform in the field of child protection, to see what might be done differently. Tomorrow I'm going to the first meeting with the Child Protection Panel, which is set down with Helen Bjørnøy as leader. We're asking the panel to show us some ways the child protection of the future can look like. We want concrete recommendations, and we want to have a debate on this – not only in the panel itself, which is largely complex, but also an external debate on this. That panel was established by Audun Lysbakken on 15 November of this year and shall provide its advice in September 2011. These recordings will be the basis for the child protection report that we will present after they have been completed. So here's the reform of the government parties. We see that there is a need to review the arrangements we have, not least in relation to the relationship between the state and the municipality. And so we've taken all of these steps and implemented all of these measures, including an ever-increasing increase in appropriations, so that it won't stop, but that we can at the same time think again. So I have hope that we will get better child protection in the future, and we need it, because the children need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1255	The reason we're doing a little bit -- because that's what we're doing -- about more concrete aspects of child protection, is that we've been talking about this for five years now, and that it's been very little concrete to deal with. On the one hand, it has been about money, but on the other hand, my main point at this crossroads is structural and it goes on – in a way – to give us something about what the government thinks about completely concrete measures. I understand that there is a panel that is going to do this thinking on behalf of the government. We might have thought that the government had also thought a little on its own – but don't. We hope that this panel can come up with measures that can meet child protection with the tailoring system that child protection requires. For some of the things that are very challenging about child protection, the children that this includes are not many in number, but they are in return quite demanding, and they require a very high degree of tailoring. There is also some background that we have previously been concerned with the diversity of institutions, regardless of their ownership. Then I want to take a little turn within the County Council of the Halvorsen, which is not here right now, but what I was going to say to her, someone might go on: I think she said a little too little about recruiting to the kindergartens. It is important to consider the quality work, as pointed out by the district council of Halvorsen, that there is also a real offensive to obtain competent staff, qualified staff, in kindergartens. In connection with the six-year reform at school, we experienced that some of the skilled workers lost their kindergartens. It has proved to be a tough round to get it back again. There must be an offensive attitude to and perhaps even a little more concrete than what we have seen, or heard of, so far. Then I want to pick up the thread from Gullvåg's representative when it comes to children's participation, and it's a nice transition to the cultural debate, where I think it'll also be the theme. For children’s participation in cultural activities – where I fully agree with the representative of Gullvåg – is a very central point in how one’s approach to life as a social person becomes. I noticed that Gullvåg was a hot support member. The right-hand side is also positive to that. We've paid $10 million. In this budget, and on the social budget, we also have an item of 15 million. kr – with it in the back of the head. This will be an important debate in the future, and it will be a debate to come back to when we deal with the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1264	The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1267	I'm asking for the word to ask for clarification from the Right, because Linda C. Hofstad Helleland says two things in one of his posts that I'm struggling to get into a jump. On the one hand, she says we have to trust the parents more, and she claims that we use too much coercion and will have asked that society intervene in some cases. Afterwards she stumbles over the fact that the government is doing too little and fails Norwegian children who need help, and that you are not able to intervene. After all, she is so deeply concerned about children who are suffering from care failure, and that is good, but all the suggestions to help these children are characterised as coercive. Therefore, I would like the Right to clarify the threshold when it's OK for society to intervene to help children who are at risk of care failure. Is it too much coercion – or is it too little coercion? For the Right now sends out rather unclear control signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1274	To build a good society for everyone, it's very important that we manage to create a good growth for everyone, and then it's about being able to give homes an opportunity to be families and to create the good growth for children and young people. And then we have some very good tools for it: we have parental guidance, and we have life courses that are good tools for families in their everyday lives. The problem is that society is saving itself to finding these things! It's about small funds that constitute a good tool for the families, and we should have got so much more and a much bigger bet on this than the government can do. But to create a good growth for everyone, we also need a good and strong child protection. As the rapporteur for the 2003 Child Protection Communication, I am delighted to hear that child protection continues to trigger such an active heart exposure in the Stortinget as we hear today. But I'm also concerned, because I hear that some of the same arguments that were used at the time are also used now, namely that on the one hand we say that kindergarten is the best place for children to be, but on the other hand we see that kindergarten, school and health care are the worst ones to report when they see that children are not well. In fact, parents have more confidence in child protection than employees have. Then we have a big challenge, and it's a pity to notice that it's still a challenge out there. And it's ironic that, on the one hand, they want red-green -- they talk a lot about recruiting to kindergarten, but it's probably the most child they're going to recruit and not so many adults -- that you're going to use kindergarten as a shelter, and on the other hand, you can't get the employees in kindergarten to report when they see that things are not good. The same is true in relation to school. I'm now on the Church, Education and Research Committee, and I'm very concerned that we don't get the school to be a good partner for the weakest children. The Christian People's Party believes that we need people with child protection skills in school, so that we can make a bridge and be a bond between school and child protection and get this done. And then I'm incredibly sorry when I hear from the left that the women's fight is over. Now, what you're saying is, for the first time, it's the family that's responsible for the pay gap. Before was the fight that women should have the opportunity to give birth, women should have the opportunity to take parental leave without losing. Now we've got an equal pay commission that says, no, it's the family's fault. So stupid that they took parental leave, then. It's a failure statement for equality what we're now seeing, that we're now going to tighten up the rights that women have fought for us before. I am glad that the Christian People's Party still stands for the tradition and the women's struggle in this room, even though we are alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1285	The representative of Hofstad Helleland had an attack on the government that I think it is natural to answer. I do not want to say that we have blamed the opposition for the situation in child protection and that we are not concrete. Yes, I agree with the representative of Hofstad Helleland that changes are needed. In my previous post here, I was among others. the importance of what the Centre Party believes. We want more competence and resources, and more responsibility for the municipalities. We want more prevention, more cross-departmental cooperation, more predictability for some of the child protection providers, and a different division of responsibilities than today. But before we jump to such a quick conclusion and come up with simple solutions, I would remind you that a sample has been set up to evaluate the child protection reform. I'm surprised that the opposition chooses to ridicule this in that way. Today’s child protection reform may prove that it is important that we take time to arrive at a child protection reform for the future, a child protection reform for the benefit of young people, because today’s child protection reform has not been a success. Then we're accused of arrogance, and we're satisfied. In my previous post, I said that much has been done, and that much is done in this budget, but that there is no doubt that we have also done a lot of business in front of us. Then to the budgets of the Right and Advance Party. We haven't spent so much time talking to them, at least I haven't. But the point is that as long as state child protection is currently the responsibility of foster homes and institutions and too much of what they are responsible for today, before we make such a change in tasks as the Right and the Advance Party want, a cut here will lead to a cut in that offer. Then we'd like to agree that we want such a change of assignment, but before that change has happened, it's actually going to be a cut in the offer of those kids, because you can't cut so much bureaucracy overnight. We can agree that changes are needed, but before any changes you want are made, this will mean a very dramatic cut. My wish is that we should come up with a child protection reform for the future, which a total accumulation can stand behind. It's not just panels and selections that are going to discuss this topic, but it's a topic to be discussed in Stortinget, and that should find its solution in Stortinget, precisely because this is an important matter for the future, too, how we're going to get a child protection that can address all the problems that we agree on. Then we have to have a discussion here about how we're going to solve it. But I think it is almost irresponsible that we should draw easy and simple conclusions without having had a proper review to see what the evaluation will achieve. This is so demanding and complex that we can't just make small changes here and there. This has to be seen in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1300	There are few members of the family and culture committee who are aliens for a little fresh vocabulary in matters that involve us very much. Child protection is one of those issues. For example, the representative of Hofstad Helleland has referred to Lysbakken as a desperate man, as a man with a private allergy, and she has referred to the parental system as a socialist coercion. And that's how we discuss back and forth when we get engaged. I think it should be the ceiling height for in this room. In this Chamber, too, everyone must resist having their policies and proposals discussed. I take the Right Party and the Advance Party seriously, because they have ambitions to rule the country. The representative of Hofstad Helleland estimates that children are in line for foster homes, and children are in line for institutional places, but in their alternative budget they just cut the appropriations for the agencies responsible for these places. Then I think it's a little strange to claim that that's the solution. I think we should have the opportunity to arrest her. We are in the process of evaluating state child protection, because we believe, like a lot of representatives here, that there must be changes in the system of child protection. But we don't want to make the same mistake that the bourgeois government made last, namely, to bring down a reform on the employees' heads. I notice that none of them were the proponents of that reform then, defending it in this room today. It is important that we, as the representative of Nilsson Ramsøy, take the time to ensure that the reforms we are implementing are genuine and lasting, because we cherish these children. Otherwise, I would also like to add that there are very many red-green representatives who today have shown enthusiasm for the budget, for their own proposals, and talked a lot about it. I don't think I deserve to be invisible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1313	I understand that the Progress Party, after being mature, has come to the conclusion that it is the electricity price in Middle Norway that is the main cause of poverty in that part of the country, and hence the lack of activity support for children who do not live in families with good enough advice. In that case, it is a very acute poverty we are witnessing in that part of the country. I can inform the representative Horne that in other parts of the country there is also poverty, poor families with children. The characteristic of these families is that they are single-income families. If we stick to Fafo's definition of poverty, families with two children who have an income of less than $300,000 a year are poor. That's why this is also a gender equality issue, because it's mostly women who are at home in families with family incomes of less than NOK 300,000. When the government puts so much effort on the working line to overcome poverty, we also face a cultural problem because many of the families living below this poverty line are immigrant families where women are at home and not at work. This is a big problem, which we hardly solve with any kind of quick fix. When I warned about Horne's emphasis on parental responsibility, it was because, in many cases, parental responsibility oversees child protection. In my county, we have unfortunately had some fateful cases in which the lack of child protection has greatly affected young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1322	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1326	The representatives Ramsøy and Barstad use the need for thorough treatment as a kind of excuse for us to spend so much time going through the structure of child protection. It's okay, no one has criticized that you spend a long time on the structure. It is also the case that the whole Stortinget was behind the previous child protection reform. But it was a premise when the resources were to be channelled against the kids who needed help. It is the government that has been running this apparatus for five years, which is responsible for not having happened. Finally, in the debate, I would like to draw attention to a relationship that has not received so much attention in the vote, namely that the Progress Party says in its comments that general community action is not a public task, but that it is very important to support families that have a high level of conflict after a break in life – which is very inconsistent and shows that one is more concerned about repair than about prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1335	The representative Solvency Horne has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1338	For approx. Five years ago, there was a government council that had a yellow note on its desk where it said «poverty control». I have to say that I notice the criticism of my own government from Gullvåg in terms of poverty reduction. In the Newspaper for a while back, after the fight against poverty had been lifted, the government itself admitted that it had not come as far as one had thought. Tax policy, in particular the tax policy of this government, is a contributing factor in the hardship of some families. It's great that Gullvåg is committed to this. What I said about the power prices in my post was actually to show that a lot of those who are struggling are worried about the power prices. I hope that Gullvåg is equally concerned, but I have not seen him engage in the debate on the electricity price.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1345	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1348	I'll give the representative Gullvåg a friendly advice, and it's reading this setting. For what Gullvåg here is called for, measures to give children the opportunity to contribute to leisure activities. The right-hand side suggests 20 million. kr to it. His own party votes against. Before he takes his next post, he should look at what is in the setting, and perhaps consider changing his mind when we are going to have the voting today. So I want to tell the representative Ramsøy that it is very nice that the government spends time and is thorough in its investigation and evaluation. But the government has been doing this for six years, and that's why these children and child protection have no reason to wait any longer. So it's almost nothing happened in this field since the red-green took over. So, finally, to the representative Stokkan-Grande: Right will help the children who need it, and let families and other children live their lives as they themselves wish. That's the simple answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1357	The representative Steinar Gullvåg, who has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark limited to 1 minute, is the most recently recorded speaker. The president wonders if she says so, makes you press more!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1362	I was just waiting for it. Thus, in the policy of the Progress Party, taxation is also part of the fight against poverty. But it's true that those who live with low incomes pay very little taxes, many of them not at all, because they live on government benefits. I must say that I am quite proud of what the government has done to combat poverty, but I am not satisfied. We've done a lot of mess, and that's why we're continuing to fight poverty in this society with undiminished strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1369	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2 and 3, Framework Area 2. We're going to the 3th Framework Area. Four and five. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1374	Culture-Norway has experienced the contribution of time to culture after the red-green government took over in 2005. With the 2011 budget, the increase exceeds 3 billion. kr. For the cultural sector, this is a lot of money. When we know that in 2005, we spent five billion dollars. kr on culture and in 2011 over 8 billion. kr, we get a good picture of what major changes have happened in Kultur-Norway. Film is a very good example. Since 2005, films have received 213 million. kr more. We've reached the target of 25 long films this year. At the moment, ten Norwegian films are on the cinemas here in Oslo. The aim of the Culturallift II is to lead Norway in film, television drama and documentaries in the Nordic region. For the third consecutive year, the number of visitors to Norwegian films will be over 2.6 million visitors. With the exception of 2003, we have to go back to 1975, when Flåklypa was launched, to find over 2 million visitors. This isn't just about quantity, it's about quality, the effort we've made on film. In recent years, a number of Norwegian films have been awarded prizes at international film festivals. Norwegian film is now being created and produced throughout the country. We have succeeded in establishing a number of film environments around Norway. Film is a culture industry in growth both in Målselv and at Lillehammer. The cultural promise has given the dance much better framework conditions. In recent years, the interest in dance has blossomed strongly, not least after the realization of Dansens Hus. But the dance is still an art form that is under construction in Norway, and in the 2011 budget, we are continuing to focus on dancing and strengthening the 3 million dance grant scheme. kr above the Norwegian Cultural Council's allocation for stage art purposes. The Year Survey of Artists showed that dance artists and choreographers are one of the worst pay and work conditions groups. The establishment of a Norwegian acting and dancing alliance will be an extremely important measure to improve their living conditions. PRODA - Professional dance training is a central training offer for professional dancers. We believe this is an infrastructure measure, and therefore a majority of the committee has moved the measure from item 74 to item 78 as a separate provision under Dansens Hus. We believe that this organisation should contribute to the unbureaucratic coordination of infrastructure measures. Historically, the professional vocal field has not had the same potential for development and the economic basis as the instrumental field. In the 2006 budget, therefore, the red-green majority at Stortinget took the initiative in professionalising choirs. As a result, a project was implemented between 2008 and 2009. This process has produced many and shared opinions about the professionalisation of choirs in music environments. A large majority in the United Kingdom have considered it much more realistic to invest in the professionalisation of existing cows than to establish new institutions. That is why, through the budgetary process, we have chosen to move forward with five of the choirs that were part of the pilot project for professionalisation. This is a first step towards a permanent strengthening of and more predictable framework for these choirs. The Labour Party and the Red-Green Government believe that volunteering plays an enormously important role in Norwegian society, and it is essential to create security and an inclusive community where everyone can participate. The voluntary sector is the major budget winner of the 2011 cultural budget. Through a sharp increase in the VAT compensation scheme, the voluntary sector is increasing many times more than the other actors in the field of culture. This VAT compensation scheme represents the largest investment ever made in the State budget and will be stepped up in the coming years. In addition, when the government has already made changes to the key over the state budget and through measures to reduce red tape and tax burden, it is concluded that no other government has ever invested so much in voluntary Norway. This year's cultural budget is like the previous cultural budget for this government, historically, and we're going to follow the cultural promise until we get to the goal. At the end of the day, I will present proposal No. 34, on behalf of the Government Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1406	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1411	In 5 minutes, it's not all the themes you can get in on. One of the things that has been debated a lot in public space over the past few weeks is game policy. What you see, is that more and more of the games go on to become online solutions. In Norway, we have a large and aggressive player in the field of gambling policy, and that is Norwegian Typing. It's the biggest player, and the most aggressive player -- actually so aggressive that you have your own TV broadcasts to get out your own product plus all the means you're using on advertising. In addition, new games are also wanted to be developed in order to achieve greater market power. Then the question to the representative Gjul is whether she supports Norwegian Typing being allowed to develop new online games.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1423	The government, and also the representative Gjul, believes that it will be going with your back into the future if we are not to allow Norsk Typing to develop games online. If we are now to talk about aggressive players in this field, it is those who operate illegally in Norway through the international gaming market. It's games that are aggressive, that help people get gambling. That is precisely what the Progress Party wants. They want the major players internationally to enter the Norwegian market and take over the Norwegian Tipping games, which are now a state monopoly that contributes to a responsible gambling policy, and which helps us actually ensure that people who get into trouble can stop the games during the day. So the Progress Party wants a different policy. They actually want it to be free for games that are of a completely different aggressive nature and that we will not have the ability to control in the same way that we have the ability to control Norwegian Typing. In addition, Norwegian Typing contributes to high incomes for volunteering and sport. We want them to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1428	The Norwegian Cultural Council has gained more power, and we have a government that is professionally competent. Then it is important to raise the border between the ministry, the magnificence and the cultural council. How far do the powers of the Council of Culture go, and what is the Council of Culture actually going to do, to put it that way? If you read the comments in the settings, it's a little confusing to see what the government parties put in the governance dialogue, as they call it, compared to the individual posts in the Culture Council. We have had the tradition here in Stortinget that we have been able to put entries directly into what we call the 74-post, while we have kept away from the 55-post when it comes to putting projects directly into. This time, the government has put in Katta's figurine theater. My question is: can the representative Gjul explain to me the difference between entry 55 and entry 74 in relation to the powers of the Norwegian Cultural Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1435	It is true that through this budget we want to give the Culture Council more power. We want the collective body of the Council of Culture to have the opportunity to manage more of the measures through the existing item 55, in addition to having a item 56, which allows us to have multiannual measures. This is a follow-up to the report of the Løken Committee. So, of course, Olemic Thommess challenges me on the question of how the Storting can affect the Council of Culture. There I think both the representative Thommessen and the representative Gjul have received a lesson, because like the government parties, his party also enters and controls post 55, among other things. through what you do at the Dokkhuset Scene. So here, there's probably more parties that might have had the fingers of the barrel in relation to the fund and item 55.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1442	The representative is very pleased with his own government budget. There has been a strong increase, and we should give it credit, even though we could well think more about other things that we have suggested more. An important part of the Cultural Promise II, which is not the responsibility of this Committee, concerns the cultural schools. It's the part of the cultural promise that targets children and young people, that has the potential to reach most, and that means a lot too many around the country. Here it has happened very little, to say it carefully. There have been some incentives, and we hear a lot of rhetoric; it sounds as if the cultural schools are just one of many offers in the school leisure system, and not an institution with the power it actually has. Is the representative satisfied with the government's follow-up to the cultural schools so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1451	Cultural schools are incredibly important, not least to give children the opportunity to participate in cultural activities and to develop their creative qualities. That's why we've been very clear in the cultural promise II that now the cultural schools are really going to be allowed to be part of the cultural promise. However, we have also said that if cultural schools are to become accessible to everyone — because today, cultural schools are a middle-class phenomenon — it is important that cultural schools become part of the school offer through, among other things. SFO. That's why we have, among other things, attempts have been made in the SFO to make cultural schools more accessible to more children, so that children who initially cannot afford to attend the cultural school are also given the opportunity to do so. We've started by having 40 million pilot projects. kr. It's obvious that we want to step up in the years to come, for example. by the fact that we have also received a position from the Cultural School Committee which is now being followed up. We have ambitions to do something really big with the cultural schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1456	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1459	I am of the opinion that culture is a concept that expresses the values and qualities that individuals attribute to high self-esteem. I want to point out that what is good culture for one, at all, doesn't have to be good culture for another. Culture shall initially be free and independent of political governance and must be based on volunteering and personal commitment. I am of the opinion that politically governed cultural goods destroy the essence of culture and promote unity. In its cultural policy, the Progress Party emphasises what activates children and young people, voluntary teams and organisations, and what captures the breadth of activity, such as: sports and music. Voluntary teams and organisations shall be exempted from VAT, says the government, but it steps down slowly and creates a bureaucratically difficult system that allows volunteers to spend a lot of time. This is a priority for the Progress Party, and we have a proposal here. Non-profit and humanitarian teams and organisations play a useful role in society, all of which are fully agreed on here. The voluntary sector must also have good and predictable framework conditions, free of political governance. We have just distributed the Freewill Prize, to which many were nominees, and to which there should have been many winners, in my opinion. We got a worthy winner. It shows how much voluntary sector means. The self-esteem of culture exists in the interaction between people. The Progress Party believes that the arena of culture exists is important. I would like to highlight that artistic expressions are meaningless without an arena, a good arena, to show it. I record that the government is increasing the use of taxpayers' money in terms of culture, and that is something you are proud of. But I remember that this doesn't automatically lead to a richer culture for most people. This is achieved by making demands and by cooperating on culture. As far as possible, people themselves shall have the right to have access to cultural resources. This will ensure that culture becomes involved and engaging, and that it meets as closely as possible. Cultural resources must be channelled as far as possible in accordance with the diversity of taste and opinion existing in Norway. I am very sceptical of any model that implies that appointed committees on behalf of the community allocate money at their own discretion. I wish there were schemes that could give public cultural institutions a wider audience, which, in my opinion, would once again give a more rich cultural offer, and society a better use of public and private cultural resources, i.e. culture to the people. It's important that we secure our cultural heritage for the posterity. Therefore, it is essential that public funds are primarily used for measures that ensure that history and traditions in the cultural sector are not lost. This applies to the rehabilitation of construction where it is necessary, that one does not wait until the costs become even greater. Some church repairs are clear evidence of this. These are politicians tempted to build new and large buildings and forget about rehabilitation. It's not exciting enough, it's more important and fun with big monuments. Deichman’s Library – The Main Library, Statens crafts and art industry school, Kunstindustrie Museum, Historical Museum, National Gallery, Munch Museum – these are five signal buildings in Oslo. All the houses are built for their current use, based on thoughtful concepts for their time. Now the government chooses to clear them for their functions. It's hard for me to understand. Minister of Culture Anniken Huitfeldt wants to track down in this area. We will have a new era within culture – the Huitfeldt era. A relatively short time ago, we let the stave churches tear or fall by themselves, for lack of maintenance. This isn't something we're proud of, it's also an epoch that we're horrified about. Aren't we faced with a comparable cultural-historical error? Has national construction and historical epochs lost all its significance? Have we had a new era in Norway today – the Huitfeldt era? I would also like to highlight actions that activise children and young people, which are important for the Progress Party, and the voluntary teams and organisations that capture the breadth of activity. This is where the Committee is constantly receiving signals. We were on a committee trip to Hordaland and visited Fjell Municipality and a sports team. What do they tell us? In order for them to apply for the VAT compensation scheme, they must have auditors and lawyers. They're doing their job on a voluntary basis! That's not the way we want it in Freedom Norway. I'm very aware of the fact that politicians don't even know best what's bad about volunteering and culture. These are highly subjective assessments. That's why it's important to let people decide for themselves. It's best that cultural life conforms to people's wishes and to those who engage, so that it is possible to achieve as much as possible with the best possible culture, i.e. culture for people as much as possible. People's choice of culture will always be more varied than what publicly subsidised culture can offer. That is precisely why I am proud that the Progress Party can present an alternative proposal in this area. We want the width. We want to reach youth. We don't want to bet everything in Oslo. I want to promote the proposals of the Progress Party and those proposals in which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1489	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1494	The Progress Party is constantly saying that they are concerned with caring for the Norwegian cultural heritage. At the same time as they put this into words, they cut a total of 1 billion. cultural crowns in its alternative budget. I wonder how the representative can defend such a cut, while they communicate to the outside world that they are dedicated to caring for Norwegian cultural heritage. My questions are: In what way does the Progress Party believe that they can secure the future of Norwegian cultural heritage through massive cuts in state grant schemes? Can the representative be sure that this will not lead to the disappearance or never being discovered of a large part of Norwegian art and cultural heritage and not least of Norwegian art and cultural futures?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1501	I am a little uncertain whether the representative heard my statement. I said throughout the speech that the Advance Party wants to give a different priority. We want to build the voluntary culture and youth culture. In our alternative budget in Stortinget, we are increasing the municipal budget. If the representative has brought all the tragic reports on TV 2 about the care of elderly people in our municipalities and about the child protection that is not working, she will see that it is precisely this Progress Party that prioritises. Then we have said that we are for volunteering and for child culture. We don't want to spend all the cultural money in Oslo, but out in Municipality-Norway. We want the width.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1510	My line is a little bit in the same direction as the line to Lene Wagslid. The representative of Thomsen's colleague, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, said in a chronicle in the Evening Post earlier this year that multicultural Norway was a threat to Norwegian culture. But what I think is the biggest threat to Norwegian culture is the Ib Thomsen era, because he wants to cut with 1 billion. kr to Kultur-Norway. My question is, how can the representative Ib Thomsen defend such cut in culture, also cut in the culture of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1518	That was almost the same question I got from the previous replicator. I can almost say the same thing again. I might add that strengthening the municipalities has been important for the Progress Party. We have proved that by increasing the budgets of the municipalities. When the municipalities get so much responsibility from the government as they do – they're going to take care of the width, they're going to take care of the culture, they're going to take care of the care of the elderly, they're going to build the cultural schools, it's supposed to be a bet area for the government parties – it's just the way we should channel our funds. So in conclusion, in this line change, I would say that I think it's a pity that SV doesn't want to strengthen the cultural heritage, that they don't see how important cultural treasures we have in Oslo, with these buildings that I was in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1527	The fact that the Progress Party is a populist party has never been in doubt. The fact that this is also true in cultural policy has been demonstrated through this round of budgets. For the Progress Party cutters with 1 billion. kr. At the same time, there is no other party in this Chamber who, in the budget setting, encourages the government more strongly through different projects to use more cultural crowns. After we've been on tour in Hordaland, it's interesting to follow the itinerary to Ib Thomsen and see all the new projects he's been presented to. He mentioned all the budgetary positions and asked the government to return to next year's budget with money, appropriations and priorities for these projects. He does the same in relation to national cultural buildings. So that's $13 million. kr. At the same time, they will have more buildings than the government has proposed, including: more to Telemark Museum and Oceana. Then my question is, where has the Progress Party been going to cut in national cultural houses? Is it in the new concert hall in Stavanger you want to cut, or is it in the new concert hall in Kristiansand?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1534	Getting called populist when you cut like that in the budget like what we do, I think it's exciting. Well, we'll take care of the cultural heritage we have. I have said that in my post and in several answers here. As I said, we do not want to build new ones. We want to keep up with what we have. The government, the parties that rule in this country, wants to build big on the West Railway. It seems to cost between three and four billion. kr, but it can cost more. Just for that money, you might have been able to maintain a part of what you have, which you can't get away from, and which is a commitment that you have. So to this with committee travels and good actions and that there is a lot of exciting happening around the country. It is clear that it is easy to sit in government and be navigable and not get out of government offices. I think it's important to get around the country and see how much exciting it is that's happening there. Why should the government not consider these measures? I can't believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1543	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1546	Right cultural policy is about giving each one of us the best possible starting point to develop the best in ourselves, to strength or joy for the communities we go through in life. It's about seeing life as a continuous process of formation, where we move from epoch to epoch, and where we want to strengthen our own starting point. It is a cultural policy that builds from below. It's about a cultural policy that will focus on the effort that each of us has to make. That's why we're betting on the free field, we want to strengthen it. We want to strengthen entrepreneurship in cultural life, the possibilities of building our own projects across genres or in their own genres. We want a broad range of sources of funding that can strengthen the diversity we need in order to have a right and dynamic cultural life. We're sceptical about power concentration and centralization. In this context, we are sceptical about the development we have had in this government period, which has been moving towards increasingly fewer and larger administrative institutions. It could be the Council of Culture, it could be the House of the Film, it could be the National Library. It can also be individual measures, which are great to have done, like the Dansen House, but which also have a centralizing role if you look at this in a whole. We want to trigger opportunities, regardless of social background, ethnic background or geographical affiliation. It's about how we as people participate in the daily communities, from family to work or active cultural life for that matter. One such important arena is the many, many spaces of volunteering. We are concerned that volunteering should have good growth conditions, and that volunteering should be allowed to grow even in a society where the clamps of time apply to many of us. We've had a lot of issues about volunteering, and we've discussed it in a lot of crossroads. In this budget debate, I do not choose to put so much emphasis on that time. I just want to underline what is the main point of the Right side: a voluntary sector in which we do not regard volunteering as an instrument, but as something that can evolve as a free civil society. We want a red tape. We believe that there is a reason for speeding up the Voluntary Register, in order to ensure that small organisations also have an easy access to the benefits and the opportunities we want to connect to the Voluntary Register. We want a more offensive VAT policy. We want the VAT refund scheme to be without a ceiling, i.e. an estimate, but when the scheme is as it is, we choose this year to increase the VAT rate for sports facilities – i.e. the compensation framework – by 50 million. kr. It is linked to many recordings we get from sports facilities builders across the country, where volunteering has a great potential but where the VAT refund system, or VAT schemes, is standing in the way. Right thinks it's important to spend money on culture. So that's a point where we're probably quite fundamentally different from the Progress Party. In a Western welfare society like ours, people will demand a broader framework with regard to the inputs and sources of inspiration they want than the market could provide. It's not special for our society; it's probably more obvious in the kind of society we live in. In the future, we're going to live by our creativity, our ability to create new ideas, our ability to transform quickly. As human beings, we are going to use many of the qualities and competences of cultural life. Then it's important that we have a cultural life that also gives a small market, a small culture like the Norwegian, good framework and good growth opportunities for the inhabitants who live there. I think we should be glad that we actually have in Norway. It is nevertheless important to be aware of some things that could be better. Then I come to the Cultural Council. As I said at the outset, it is my opinion and the Right's position that under this government we have unfortunately seen quite strong leads in terms of power-concentrating grip. One of the most important is the Council of Culture. Thus, more power has been accumulated in the Council of Culture, and the government has been seen to place areas by area under the administration of the Council. A small piece of advice has been put in place, and more – what to say – is put into the Council's hands through a professional anchoring of Council members. We believe that what we've seen from this so far, does not draw very well. We are afraid that the Council of Culture will become a panel of taste judges in relation to the prevailing directions for defining qualitatively good art in the debates on cultural life. It's a very dangerous development, which seems to be strengthening itself. So to what was my question in the line change with the representative Gjul. I then raised the question of how the governance dialogue – that is a word I am a little uncertain about if I like, but at least we use it for as long as – between government and accumulation should be in the case of the Council of Culture. In this budgetary process, we have seen that the government parties in the Grand Duchy have launched a formidable clearing-up between posts 74 and 78 – i.e. those under the administration of the Council of Culture, and what is perceived as fixed positions on the government budget. I expect this to be related to a rather massive feedback from cultural actors, who were disapproved of being subjected to the judgment of the Culture Council, not a particularly good signal, in and of themselves, nor in relation to the question of how the Culture Council is perceived. I wonder what is really the framework for the Cultural Council. One moment in the notes, it's said that there's more power and more discretion here, and here you're going to rule and bald and choose. The next moment you say no, the Stortinget should still be able to place posts, you should still be able to intervene in how the Cultural Council is governed. If you look at this, you've first moved a lot of the entries out of the 74. You put the Kattas Figure Theatre directly into entry 55. When did we start with that? I don't remember doing that. For me, it's to override the distribution that the Cultural Council does under the headings 55 and 56. We also put the Dockhouse Scene under entry 56, but it then came with money, in the sense that we provided ourselves with the Council's disposition to pay for the fun, while the government parties smoothly put the Dockhouse Scene under the 74-post, without including a single ear from the 56-post. So you pushed something that was going to shift something else. Let me not spend time digging deeper into this, but this is simply a root that it has to be cleaned up in, and where it requires completely different points of reference, just to delete it. In conclusion, I would like to pick up the challenges that Huitfeldt has addressed recently. State Council Huitfeldt has pointed out the importance of bringing new groups into the arenas of cultural life. I've realized that it might be her brand in the future to look at how new groups are going to get into cultural life. A fundamental debate will be on the extent to which we are going to apply large, wide-ranging solutions, and on the extent to which we are going to approach very targeted measures – i.e. the extent to which we are going to govern. I hope that during this debate we will be able to go further into this issue, and I am going to challenge the Council of State on just this. In a later article, I will challenge the Council of State on what governance dialogue she has been considering with regard to all those who receive letters of allocation from the Ministry on precisely these issues – the extent to which we are given a review of the indexation of the year of diversity from Mr. Gist, and to what extent this will be a theme cultural institutions need to figure out for themselves. I give myself this, and I come back to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1580	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1583	Yes, a number of suggestions. First of all, I would like to address the proposals on which the Right is involved. In addition, I would like to announce that the Right would also support some of the Left's proposals, no. 35, 37, 38 and 39. We also support the proposals of the government parties, proposal No. 34, in the sense that we are going to vote for the budget framework. The way to do this, I understand, must be to support the proposal presented by the government parties, i.e. proposal No. Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1588	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has addressed the proposals to which he referred. He has also given an explanation of vote. It's going to be line change. You'll get a line from the representative Kåre Simensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1593	See it – then I'll answer for poor ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1598	The president's happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1601	I record that the blue friends here at Stortinget want to make a big cut in the Norwegian media landscape. It's 150 million kittens. kr in the press stand, and you in the right are like a good number two with just cutting by 100 million. kr. The cut is supposed to be done by setting a ceiling for the allocation. My question is then divided into two parts: how should this roof be built, and what newspapers in the Norwegian media landscape will suffer a sudden newspaper death after 2013, if you come to power together with their blue friends from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1607	Now it's enough that before we get to 2013, the government must have done something about its media policy, and I'm waiting with excitement at the Sletholm committee's investigation, which is advertised if not very long, I assume. That selection will give us – I hope – a basis for a fairly fundamental review of all media policy instruments. The right has always been skeptical about the production grant to the newspapers because, in our opinion, direct subsidies create a dependency between the state and the media business, which we do not think is good. In addition, what we have seen over the years is that the production grant has not worked very well. The reality is that when this was introduced at the end of the 1960s, there were almost two newspapers in all small towns in Norway, and that was the number two papers you wanted to support through the press support. Today, I think there are eight publishers in Norway who have two newspapers – that is, this scheme has not worked. Right? That's why we think we need to find better solutions, and let's delete it this year, as we've done for years before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1616	My concern is also media policy. I'm also waiting for the Media Support Committee's statement. In 2005, the Right spoke loudly about abolishing the broadcasting fee and adding the NRK as a permanent post to the State budget under direct allocation. Then there were investigations that showed that this could threaten the independence of the press in the NRK, because they have to fight health bills, against other crowns, and that being critical to the government can lead to less appropriations. Have the Right scolded these plans as a result of the investigation, and are they now in favour of broadcasting fees, or do they agree with their friends in the Advance Party and will privatize the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1625	The right has a national meeting decision that the NRC should be transferred to the State budget. That's the big difference between the Progress Party and us. The progress party will privatize the NRK. It doesn't have any plans on the right. Right-wing wants a strong public broadcaster, and we think that in the years to come, the public broadcaster will also have new tasks, that is, even stronger cultural policy tasks than we might have seen so far. The right one sees a good and rich future for the NRK, but we think it's natural to fund the NRK directly from the state budget. And that's also the way that we decide on the license. It's not like we don't have our hand on the steering wheel in relation to what NRK gets, and then maybe the difference isn't that big, if they get it one way or the other. At least our way is cheaper and simpler.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1633	When Winston Churchill was asked to cut in the appropriations for culture during World War II, he should simply have said, "But what is it when we fight for?" More than 60 years later, SV shares that perspective. Despite the financial crisis in the world and Europe and our neighbouring countries, we are following the cultural promise, and we are on our way to 1 pst. In this country, we're not just going to have something to live with. We also need something to live for. Culture is not a luxury or a surplus project. It's a very central part of what makes a country good to live in. Culture is a well-being. Festive speeches of this kind have been held in cultural debates for years, but since 2005, fortunately, we have had a government that has followed up with funds and action. Today, the cultural budget amounts to a total of 8 billion. kr, an increase of 3 billion. kr since we took over five years ago. I know that the opposition is annoyed by the fact that the government parties boast of the cultural promise, but I don't care about that. I am proud to be part of a government that follows up its own promises in a field that has too often been down priorities. To say that culture is a well-being is also to say that everyone should have a right to it. All residents of Norway shall have the opportunity to experience and to practice art and culture. That is why it is to ensure that everyone enjoys the cultural promise of a central political goal. That's why we're doing the opposite of the Progress Party, which wants to increase the price of culture and experiences. The party of progress markets itself as usual as a party occupied by the people most, and will arrest the elitist taste police. But the most elitist taste police available is the Progress Party itself, which will make cultural experiences you can take advantage of, even more depending on the size of your wallet. For example, at the National Theatre today, a ticket to the «Travel to the Christmas Star» costs between DKK 200 and DKK 300. Without State subsidies, the ticket would cost over NOK 1 000. In their comments, the Progress Party says outright that they think it should be more expensive for ordinary people to go to the theater. The policy of the Progress Party is to take culture from people, and it is elitist. SV's policy is the opposite. We're raising the culture of every singer, from opera to review, rock, country, we're raising the dance, we're raising the movie, because neither politicians nor your wallet are going to decide what kind of cultural experiences you're going to experience. I am particularly pleased that we are going to have our own national scene for rock, jazz and electronic music at the USF Verftet in Bergen. This is a genre that has been on the map for too long. What remains? There is still a follow-up to the Cultural Promise. We want a stronger focus on the cultural school in the years to come. It's clear that there we need a bigger bet. I want more focus on artists being more able to live by their art. Finally, I would like to say that press support is one of the most important premises for a well-functioning democracy, for a good social debate and for a good media diversity. I look forward to the position of the Media Support Committee, but I am pleased that we maintain the press support and strengthen the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1653	SV does not promise the local economy and it is important for the country to function. It is important for good care for the elderly, a good school, a child protection that works, and not least for everyone. This challenge has been brought back from our municipal politicians throughout the country. In the middle of this, the government promises a culture school, a culture school that is good, that offers a wide range, and that has no queues. How is the government going to make sure that we get a cultural school in all municipalities that don't have long waiting lists? Is it by earmarking funds you intend to solve that problem in the municipality as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1660	Firstly, I would like to say that this government has had large increases in the local economy and has made it one of its trademarks. I'm very happy about that. In addition, I am pleased with the question of the cultural school, which is a heart issue for SV. There are many ways we're going to make the cultural school more accessible and better for people. For example, SV wants it to be part of the school everyday life, a part of the SFO, on which the representative Gjul was in. We need to discuss the maximum price and, of course, we need to discuss larger appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1667	The representative, Barstad, felt that the opposition was annoyed by the bragging of the Cultural Lift. She's right about that. But when we got this proposition, we could read under research that now it's going to be researched, and that's what we think it's time. Cultural research is important, because we need a lot of knowledge about it. The proposition reads as follows: ‘The aim is to gain an overall knowledge’ — this is a research report to be made — ‘on the effects of the cultural policy pursued during the period covered by the Cultural Promise’. Isn't this perhaps, frankly, a bit of a tighter frame? So, we have a tradition that's about going from cultural messages to cultural messages, for example. at intervals of 10 years. Could it not have been a point that we got a research report that looked at cultural development in a slightly wider context than just making a sort of showy report on the cultural promise? I think it might have been all right to create something that interested more than the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1679	I think the cultural promise interests a lot more than the government parties, not to mention cultural life itself and all those who are major consumers of culture. I agree that it might be interesting to see if we're going to research more or more or more, but I think it's natural to look at the effect of the massive escalation we've had on culture, and what it's done to institutions, artists, etc. – and us as consumers. Do we now consume more culture, for example, as the state spends more money on culture, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1686	The representative, Barstad, is talking about fighting for everyone to have access to cultural experiences – as if someone doesn't have them. If so, I am a little curious about who it should be. But in any case, it is important to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to acquire cultural experiences and training in music, dance and other forms of culture. Since SV is so concerned about the fact that everyone should have opportunities, I wonder if the representative is satisfied with his own government's efforts at the cultural schools, where the proportion is so high that it is actually only those who have high income and are well funded, who have the opportunity to pay for the children to get that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1694	I'm for a bigger and wider bet in cultural schools, that it's going into school, and that we're going to bring down the prices, because we know that price is some of the things that keep people outside. For example, the maximum price may be: be a good instrument in that context. Otherwise, I am pleased that we have started pilot projects, but I think we need to step up and have a bigger bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1701	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1704	Culture gives vitality to both people and society. That's why the Central Party is very pleased that the Cultural Promise is on track, and that in this year's budget we can also point to a commitment of 780 million. kr for culture. There's reason to be proud of that. The Government proposes to increase the VAT compensation subsidy by 212 million. NOK, which adds up to 608 million. kr. This is a very important part of our commitment to the voluntary sector. In addition, a new VAT compensation scheme has been established for the construction of sports facilities. It is important that, in the years to come, we also advocate a real increase in the amount of these schemes, so that the costs to the actors – there may be builders or voluntary teams and organisations – are as small as possible, so that they are effectively compensated. Several have highlighted the need for continued simplification and red tape in the interaction between the public and voluntary sectors, with a particular focus on children’s and youth organisations. Therefore, it is positive that the government now wants to set up a user forum, with representatives from the voluntary sector, and that these recordings are taken seriously. Volunteering centres aim to facilitate increased participation, local involvement and to create good conditions for volunteering around the country. The centres are a meeting place and an interaction area for volunteering in the local environment. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the government is proposing to increase the investment, so that this can go to either increased grants to existing centres, enhancing skills or creating new centres. Large sums of money are spent on culture in Norway, and it is also important that these funds benefit the whole country. This is why, among other things, play the regional cultural institutions and an important role. In this year's budget, 20 million have been proposed. kr in addition to regional theatres and SEK 2.3 million. kr in the increase of regional and district operational measures. The resources of the regional theatres ensure inter alia: that Nord-Trøndelag Theatre is increased by 2.4 million. kr, which is of great importance to them. Strong regional environments of competence also contribute positively to the international promotion of Norway as a cultural nation. Therefore, it is important that we also spend time next year on how we can make an even greater contribution to building strong regional cultural environments. Here is a good example of Tingved Kulturhage in Verdal, together with the theatre training at Högskolan in Nord-Trøndelag. They represent strong and good environments outside the capital, which contribute to challenging already established environments. Every day, a lot of exciting things happen in the cultural field around the country. Hundreds of thousands of Northmen meet culture every day in different forms, whether there are concerts, exhibitions or sporting events, or in the form of culture through the media. I'm sure we agree that culture is part of enriching our lives. We have a very large amount of culture in Norway, and we have to take care of that. We have to make it easier for cultural life to have good conditions. It becomes important when the government has announced that it will have a message on social inclusion and cultural distribution so that even more people will not only be recipients but also participants in cultural life. This government has shown great willingness to bet on culture, and that's something we have every reason to be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1721	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1724	The centre party has been high on the track and has been clear about the location of the national gallery. They believe that the National Gallery should be in the old buildings. The Oslo Center Party has been very clear on that, the head of the Center Party has been very clear on that, and not least has it been underlined repeatedly by the fact that Liv Signe Navarsete has gone out so strongly as she has done that the National Gallery is to be located in the National Gallery building. What's the reason why the Center Party has changed its position when they've been so clear in this area? It has something to do with the new castle museum, and you give 30 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Where do you want it to be? Does it have anything to do with it? Does the representative think it is important to have a post-use plan for the buildings you are leaving in Oslo, which is part of the cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1733	I have to correct a little of what was said by the representative of the Progress Party. The leader of the centre party has said that it is important that we take care of old buildings, so the party has not changed its position on this matter. We are aware that the Oslo Centerpartie has had a different starting point on this question. I don't know if I fully understood the connection to the castle museum. But it's important for the Center Party that we have a plan for the use of these buildings. There's a lot of money spent on them, and it's important to see how you're going to use the buildings further, so that they're taken care of. The party has not changed its position, and the leader of the Centre Party has also not gone against any of the government's previous statements on this matter. But we've been in a discussion about how we want to use the buildings -- it's a demanding question, which we've discussed earlier in Stortinget. These are constructions that require quite a lot when they are to be restored. It's not done on one, two, three, and we have to spend a lot of money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1744	My question is about centralization. If there's something I think this government has had as a mark in these years, it's about doing a lot of administrative work that everybody's been doing about centralization about Oslo. I mentioned in my article The Council of Culture, I mentioned the National Library, which is now also going to have a steering function, or at least an important function in relation to the public libraries, and I could also look at, in my opinion, inadequate regional investments, for example within films. The grip around the film's house has been centralizing on Oslo. The regional film funds, which it was important for the Right, were to develop several more offensively than we have seen now, were an important prerequisite for doing so. There is a great deal of investment in the institutions, less investment in the free field, and too little investment in the field of culture. Is the representative comfortable with this? Can she tell me where she sees it – let me say – the district profile of the budget we now have for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1751	It is always important that we address questions in relation to centralisation. It goes on in the cultural field and on other things. So I'm going to be honest to say that in the cultural field, too, we have challenges in how we're going to be able to centralize funds as much as possible. One thing is about the structural concepts. That representative from the Right was in on the Culture Council and that part, I think it's important that we see the consequences of when it's started, and then it's open to evaluating it to see if this has any negative effects on it with regard to centralization. When we look at funds, money, there's a slightly different debate. There's an eternal struggle about how we can decentralize the funds. There I am still not satisfied, but there is not a development just under this government. There's a trend under all governments that the funds tend to suck to the capital, because here's the national institutions, we have a lot of artists here. So we have to do this in a bigger debate – almost a structural debate. How are we going to use funds to move both institutions and money out into the country? This is kind of related.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1758	I'd like to follow up on the previous replicator just at that. Because in the light of the Centre's commitment, it should be the voluntary organisation life and the voluntary children's and youth organisations that were, in a way, at the heart of such a decentralised initiative, through a cultural promise that has now gone over many years. In autumn, the National Council of Norway Children’s and Youth Organisations has submitted a report through the framework conditions of the Children’s and Youth Organisations. Here you simply say: ‘LNU is deeply disappointed that the promises of coordination and red-green government declarations and voluntary notification have been broken.’ Then the question to the representative of the Central Party is: Are you satisfied with getting such a certificate, and what will the Central Party do to get out of this situation where youth organisations are so dissatisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1770	I am pleased that we have had a massive commitment to volunteering and to children's and youth organisations, because this government has had it. Then it is that we also say in our remarks that the majority of the Storing and Governments aim to simplify and red tape the relationship between the public sector and the voluntary sector and the interaction that is there. It's also, like the last one that was asked, a rather demanding problem. Not only do you look at this field, but in a lot of areas, we politicians are putting in place good schemes that we think should work and be involved in and strengthen volunteering and local children's and youth organisations, but that also bring with it some paperwork that can contribute to making their everyday lives difficult. That's why we're working on this now, and we've asked the government to report back to the Stortinge next year to see how far you've come with this work. So we're taking with us the recordings from LNU. I think it's useful and constructive input that we have to include in the debate now to look at how we're going to align the arrangements in the future. So we're going to take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1779	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1783	The language board has been without a director for months, but people are talking anyway. It was Hello in the week's cultural policy comment earlier this fall. It illustrates an important point. Because cultural policy debate often gives the impression that culture and cultural policy are synonymous, and that cultural life is something that politicians create and grant. In the eagerness to promote a powerful cultural policy and new cultural policy initiatives, it is quick to forget that culture is a natural part of human life and function, and a natural part of meeting between people in human communities independent of political decisions. People are talking away, as Hello this week said, and fortunately for it. The Christian People's Party has been involved in raising the cultural field and the cultural budget for many years. However, with increased appropriations and more stringent governance, the impression of culture is also reinforced as a political project, for some people see the cultural sector as an instrument for achieving other societal goals. On the other hand, we also find those who regard state cultural policy as a kind of luxury, which the state may be happy to support in part-time if we have money left over. The Christian People's Party represents a third way in cultural policy. We recognise the breadth and diversity of the cultural sector, and of course cultural life is so much more than the parts in which the state is involved. Under the red-green government, the instrumental thinking has intensified, and the power of the state has increased. The Christian People's Party will increase annual budgets, but give cultural life greater freedom. We will provide more funding sources, not fewer, and more support schemes, not fewer. As I said, the Christian People's Party and several other parties in the Chamber have been involved in raising the cultural budget that we are discussing today for years. And with last year's budget debate in the cultural field fresh in mind, I would like to express my hope that there may be a greater degree of recognition that there is actually a large and broad political majority behind that promise. The whole cultural policy and the cultural field had served to ensure that we recognised that here there is a broad political majority, and did not try to create artificial divisions between six parties that have actually supported this promise in common. The budget proposes increased appropriations for many good purposes. That's good. The Christian People's Party is also very pleased that the majority have found room to support our desire for increased appropriations for KABB, so that the audio library for the blind can be strengthened, and to strengthen the folk dance through the activities of Norway's Youth League. There are also some measures that are of particular importance for the Christian People's Party, which we should have liked to have had a majority. That is why we also proposed a framework of 25 million. kr higher than the government's proposal when the financial position was examined. The importance of volunteering is not primarily that it supports welfare objectives and other policy objectives – the genuine importance of volunteering lies precisely in its voluntary nature. The Christian People's Party proposes more funding for volunteering, in this budget voluntary cultural life and voluntary children's and youth organisations, and not least the school corps, but we want to red tape and simplify their everyday lives. Culture schools must be strengthened as a cultural arena. School leisure schemes are not the only solution; there are many more measures that are needed. The Norwegian Opera & Ballet must get the promise that the signal building we have traveled deserves, in fact, so that it is filled with a high-quality content. The regional and district operations must be strengthened in parallel with it, in order to follow up the intentions of the actual decision on the opera. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party that are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1806	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1811	Let me first point out that there seems to be a very large degree of consensus between the red-green parties and the Christian People's Party in cultural policy in the most important fields. It is joyous and citizen for good cooperation in the years to come. A pillar of democracy, but also of cultural policy, is a diverse and vibrant media landscape of high-quality media, and that there is room for local media that can write about many of the great cultural experiences you have around the country. We know that the Progress Party is proposing to cut the press support by 150 million. NOK, and the Right proposes to cut the press stand by 100 million. kr for this budget. Would it be possible for the Christian People's Party to sit in a government so drastic to work in cutting off the press support, or could hope here and now establish that the Christian People's Party is the guarantor of such violent cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1818	Now I am defending the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party and not the Right and Advance Party. This is perhaps an example of what I tried to refer to in my post, that there are many areas of cultural policy that are in fact widely agreed upon, where artificial separations are created from a hypothetical collaborative discussion. The Christian People's Party is behind an active media support policy, for which there is a majority in the Stortinget. We're now waiting for the Media Support Committee to set up, and we're going to go through it thoroughly, and we're set to modernise the arrangements to the extent necessary. But the intentions of the policy that has been pursued today are still on the table. And then we're going to think about what's the way to do it. Then we will cooperate with the parties that give us support on a case-by-case basis in the Storting, and get the most out of the Christian People's Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1825	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1828	In five minutes it is not possible to take a large ideological settlement on the role of culture in the Party's policy, but for the Left, at least the formation and freedom of expression are the two key words of cultural policy. We have put forward in our alternative budget an increase of nearly 190 million. In addition to what the government boasts of having presented. It is possible to do within the enormously broad framework that this government actually has in the space of action. In addition, we've added 200 million to the Cultural Memory Fund. kr. We think it's a very important act to do in relation to the major challenges we've associated with taking care of our cultural history and our cultural memories. We also have an addition in the museum, where we believe it is now important to have a more comprehensive plan for the management of our collections. We have now had a major consolidation process. Now it's time to breathe and try to think about how to take care of what we actually have in front of us. Then we've made a lot of proposals today – which I think I've brought up once before, but for security's sake I'm going to make sure they're brought up now: one is about today's license, because we think the funding is in a very old-fashioned way. The time for household charges is over. The left has put in proposals to participate in recreational activities for children from low-income families. We have also made a proposal on collective management. We have some additions in our budget related to libraries. If the libraries are to be able to cope with today's technological challenges, it requires that we both have an investment programme for library facilities and that we have a plan for how to increase the competence of librarians. That is why the Left has both put money into it in its alternative budget and put a proposal here today. We have also added 50 new work grants. The work tips for Norwegian artists believe that we are a system that works well, and we believe that it should have been expanded. The tradition faith also makes the Left a promise for the multicultural cultural institutions, which we believe play a very important role in Culture-Norway today by building bridges between cultures and participating in and developing the common cultural platform we are about to face. We have also been concerned that we should have reduced VAT on e-books. I think it's going to be a tragedy for Norwegian literature if we can't fix this quickly. So I'd like to say a little bit about volunteering. The left has added 100 million. kr extra on VAT, in addition to the fact that we want a commitment to volunteer research. Yesterday, I received a message from a central government member of a voluntary organisation that probably knows many people, 4H, who summed up the VAT compensation as follows: We have created a system that only provides enormous amount of extra work centrally, enormously much more work locally and enormously much more work regionally. The only thing we've got back is $50,000 in increased auditor's expenses and no increase in revenue. This is a belly pad. Now it's time for us to start listening to what is said in volunteering. Now it's time we started digging behind all the find words that are expressed from the pulpit here. Now we have to take the volunteer seriously, and then we have to take a real boost in VAT compensation, and we need to create a system that doesn't bury organizations in bureaucracy, so that Norwegian volunteering becomes a school in bureaucracy and not a school in democracy. In the case of the last proposal of the Christian People's Party, in the case of games, the Left will support it. We could also have supported the last proposal of the Progress Party, about games, but it seems very unsound, so we choose to support the Christian People's Party instead. We should have had a proper review of the game policy today, but also there we are technologically following. The left has long thought that we should let some other actors go through licenses on Norwegian online games. That's what we guarantee against aggression, and we also ensure that part of the income goes to volunteer. These steps should have been taken at the same time as restrictions were imposed on both network access and credit card usage. With such a grip, we might have managed to create a Norwegian gaming market online, which would have both led to incomes for Norwegian volition, and could have made sure that we had been able to combat gambling madness. Now we've let that opportunity go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1854	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1859	The representative of Trine Skei Grande, on behalf of the Left Party, is promoting a rather interesting proposal, proposal No. 36: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case of other and more time-consuming ways of financing a public broadcaster than today’s licence.’ If that means taking it over the state budget, then I have to say that I'm a little more concerned about whether it's a time-wise way. It was actually also the conclusion of the Left's sister party in Sweden, which made an investigation into removing the license and taking it over the state budget, namely that it would then come into a situation where the authorities no longer had the arm's length distance from the public broadcaster, because there had to be a prioritisation between other things in the budget. It was thought that then editorial freedom was in jeopardy. So I would like to challenge the Left a little bit on the following: what does it mean to have a more timely way of financing a public broadcaster – which is more timely than today's license?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1869	I'm very happy to get that question, because then I get the opportunity to show the differences here. I believe that what the Left believes can also be done by the Workers' Party. The progress party will sell, the right will take it over the state budget, and the left believes that the household fee is old-fashioned. To charge a flat-rate charge per household is old-fashioned. What we're doing, for example. is a small percentage of the tax bill, which could be a media tax, which could ensure an unadvertised public broadcaster in Norway today. It would have been a much more fair way to do it, because then you could have actually paid according to your ability, and everyone could have received as needed. I think that's something that the Workers' Party could also have liked. Then you had managed to keep the freedom that we're all concerned with having the NRK, but it would have made it a much fairer collection, which allows Steps with good income to pay a lot more than Mom, which is the minimum pensioner and will receive the same offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1876	Herbicides have been a favorite income for sport and volunteering. The latest in 2009 was a good 210 million. kr to voluntary activity and total sport – and SEK 148 million. kr for sport in particular. For 2010, the forecast is 255 million. kr. The grassroots share benefits from voluntary activity and sport, and individuals and members can decide for themselves who will receive their share, among others. choirs, corps, sports teams, 4H, etc. Does the Left believe that it is better that Norwegian Typing or the State should decide this than that the individual can decide which layer, which organisation, they want to support through the grassroots percentage?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1883	The left has been against the arrangement of the grass root fraction from the start, and it has been shown that we have got it right. First of all, there will be no more money for volunteering with the grass root. It's the exact same means, but you choose to distribute some of the funds in a different way. LNU has presented a report that is very clear: this means that only the large organisations – sports on many fronts – get this money. This is a huge displacement away from the small volunteers, away from those who don't have a lot of advertising devices that allow them to advertise their grassroots share and tell everyone what organizational number they're going to enter, and a transfer from these little ones to the big machines. You know, as a dresser, you should be for the grass root. I understand that Vålerenga gets more through this, but maybe not the point is that Vålerenga is going to get so much more of these resources. Maybe that's how the big ones get enough of these means. For the Left, it is important to help the small organisations – those in the take-off pit – and all those in need of funds far more than the large ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1893	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1896	In 2005, the Red-Green parties opted for a cultural promise to be made. The most important thing has been to increase the cultural budget to 1 pst. of the State budget by 2014. We're going to keep doing that in a very tight budget. Over the last few years, we've increased the allocations for cultural purposes a lot. What we've been focusing on in the next few years is, first of all, improving quality and increasing the number of cultural life. The government's film bet is an example of this. Several years of large increases in Norwegian film appropriations have contributed to increased production and public uptake. The average average of 25 films per year has been reached, and the high number of Norwegian premieres has attracted many to the cinemas. Now it is necessary to focus more strongly on quality. That's why I want to give room for greater variation in the budgets of each film, so that there can be some larger, more costly productions. Quality is a key. A significant part of the budget commitment next year goes to volunteering. The government’s contribution to VAT compensation to non-governmental organisations is the largest voluntary effort on the State budget ever. In these days, letters go out to thousands of voluntary teams and organisations, because they are now getting money through the VAT compensation system. We have an improvement potential in this area, and as the representative of the Central Party was involved, we have just set up a group of representatives of the LNU to contribute to a more simplified system. But volunteering gets more than ever. For music purposes, the 2011 draft budget represents a sharp increase. In total, music purposes have increased by almost 0.5 billion. kr through the Cultural Promise. In this budget, we have prioritised the organisation support, so that we can support professional concert organisers across Norway. A process has also been launched to clarify the future role of the Rikskonseries. Different options are now being considered. One is to transfer funds to the music support, so that each artist can get more opportunity to tour around Norway, possibly transfer funds to the organiser’s support, that local organisers can get money, or use the means to organise combination concerts — offer work concerts in connection with musicians who are already on the school tour in the area. It may provide an opportunity to visit smaller places than the places that the Rikskonserts visit today. The aim of the process is to obtain several high-quality concerts with a broader geographical distribution for the same costs as today. Visual art, architecture and design is one of the government's areas of interest in the Culturallift. We have also started a work with a big message about visual art. Visual art is therefore a priority in this budget. For stage art purposes, we've had an increase of 700 million. kr through the Cultural Promise. In this budget, we give priority to performing arts institutions outside Oslo and the free performing arts field. The dance is in a construction phase. We're now working on a strategy for dancing, because here we need to increase our bets in the years to come. In this budget, in the museum field, we have focused primarily on the preservation of old, falsified and cherished cultural-historical buildings. The Rypholk Museum has been given the task of proposing a plan for how we can take care of this important part of our cultural heritage. We have also invested money for archival purposes, and for those of you who have not visited the Digital Archive and the census in 1910, I strongly recommend it to all representatives. It's one of our most visited cultural institutions. In this budget, we will also continue the Lesel promise, and in the Lesel promise of 2011, we will pay particular attention to the public libraries as meeting places and the dissemination venues. There are important distinctions in this Chamber when we come to cultural policy. The party of progress proposes massive cuts. If you're going to take your kids on the "Travel to the Christmas Star", we're going to pay $200 per child today. With the policies of the Progress Party, it will be NOK 1 000 ticket. Then we get a cult life for very few. I also find it strange that the Right and Advance Party agree to cut the press support. The most competitive parties want a stronger monopoly situation with regard to media pluralism in hundreds of local communities. Newspapers such as Tromsø, Østlandingen, Agderposten, Namdalsavias and Altaposten will have problems with the policies of the Right and Advance Party. The right has criticized the government for pursuing an instrumental cultural policy. I would therefore like to ask the Right: is it less instrumental to give cultural money for cultural and nutritional purposes, as they wish, rather than to increase the resources of the Council of Culture and have as its objective the achievement of more cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1932	There's a lot of writing in the budget. A lot of notes are written. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Culture have a note on which all parties agree, including the blue parties. It's about a castle museum. This is an exciting project where you can show you thousands of items that have been stored for many, many years – from pictures, cars, dresses, jars, etc. It'll be exciting. I want to ask the Council of State how she sees this. Should it have a connection to the Castle? Or are you going to use one of the five detached buildings that Oslo gets in the future, that will be empty, and that need content?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1939	It is usually the case that birthday banners are kept secret. But since we have a public law in Norway, it has also become known that a letter has gone from the Ministry of Culture to the National Museum where we ask them to cooperate with the Palace, so that we can show all the amazing items that the Castle has, at a national hiking exhibition in connection with the 75th anniversary of the King and Queen. So first of all, we want an exhibition, so that as much as possible in Norway can see these cultural historical treasures over a two-year period. Then we may come back later to the question of a new castle museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1946	‘All shall be included’ is the motto of the position. I have noticed that the Minister of Culture at the Annual Conference of the Council of Culture, but also on several occasions in the past, has pointed out that she wants to work to get more active in cultural life, or to ensure that the arenas of culture are opened up to new audiences. I also realized that it is in particular – what to say – the groups we may not see so often. It may be about the extent to which you have been fed enough to visit or participate in cultural contexts. It could be that culturally you might be in other arenas that make you not come in naturally. I want to ask the Council of State: what at this year's budget is what she wants to emphasise that meets her new ambitions in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1953	We have stressed in the letters of all cultural institutions that they should focus both on quality and on reaching a wider audience. We also want to address these issues in more detail in a separate big message on social inclusion. It is quite clear that the State, the Ministry of Culture, should not focus on the types of priorities that each institution should pursue. But we've focused on strengthening some arenas. We've had a construction of the cultural school bag, which makes it come out to more, and the cultural walking stick. We are now looking at opportunities to build something similar in the workplace. Through the Cultural Week in Westfold, we make one such attempt. We also consider this in connection with the future role of the National Concerts. So there's one of several examples of our thinking, but it's not like I'm looking at the need to build new institutions in this area, but we're using established institutions to possibly act on new arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1960	There is a ripple in the media sector, not least in the case of ownership of large media. The last thing is that it's wondering if Telenor wants to take over TV 2 – to say what it is. Now the Council of State is not going to deal with it over the table here, but I want to raise a more principled side of the matter and challenge the Council of State to reflect on the need to look at how the authorities are going to see that one actor can have a heavy position in terms of both content production and distribution in the TV market, and whether a dominant state ownership in our two leading channels is also a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1965	We warn in this budget that we want a review of the ownership law. Major changes are taking place all the time, and as the representative was involved, there is also a need to assess the appropriateness of the ownership restrictions we have today. Not least, we need to look at vertical integration and ownership law in relation to this, and see if we have good tools to contribute to the spread of power in the media sector. So it's absolutely right that the representative has this in mind, that we have to get back to Stortinget. We need to look at the ownership law again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1970	There is a lot I would like to ask the Council of State, but that is a matter I do not fully understand. If you're an art student around Norway, you get a scholarship. But if you're an art student in Tromsø, you'll be denied the scholarship. In Tromsø, this has led to the formation of a spice layer for the art students to receive scholarships. There, the savings bank, the university, the county municipality and the municipality of Tromsø have split and pushed a few tens of thousands into the pot to get this resemblance for the art students in Tromsø. I think this is a little awkward. I don't understand the discrimination. I don't understand why we in Norway today have to have such spice layers to achieve equality between art students. So I have a heartfelt prayer to the Council of State: this is just to sort things out. This is getting too stupid, and it's getting too awkward to do this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1980	We have scholarships for some art college students, but it is not that only the students in Tromsø do not get this scholarship. For example, do you go? At Theaterhøgskolan in Oslo, you get the scholarship. If you go to the Nord-Trøndelag, you won't get it. There are very many others, other than the art students in Tromsø, who feel unfairly treated with this scheme. We have also been criticized by those who study abroad. They don't get this scholarship. Therefore, I do not want to open up for the students of one and one educational institution to have access to this scholarship. I want to look at this in full before I come back with an answer to how we should manage these funds. It is important that these funds benefit more art students, but looking at one and a student group I don't think is good politics. I want to look at all those who today fall out of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1985	I have noticed the Council's response to the previous reply, that the students in Tromsø and abroad should be treated equally. It clearly shows that Tromsø is far from the Council's office. What I intend to challenge the Council of State is this with pressure. It is important to have a free and independent press in Norway. A big and important actor in this way is the NRK. Recently, a research report showed that during the election campaign in 2005, the NRK was very biased when it came to coverage of the election campaign. It was the Workers' Party and the Center Party that came out the best – and there's no big news, to say it like that. Now I do not believe that the Council of State should govern editorial freedom, but is the Council of State comfortable with the coverage of the NRC over many years against the political parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e1994	So it's not like, in the case of scholarships for art students, it's just those who are abroad and those who are in Tromsø who don't get this scholarship. There are several students in Oslo who don't get it. Many film students at Lillehammer have responded that they do not get this art scholarship. So this diabolical characteristic of how this case is handled, I can't support it. We have to look at several of those who are discriminated against and feel discriminated against in this system before we decide. As far as the NRK is concerned, we need to have a constant discussion about how they manage their societal mission. But it's totally irrelevant to me, as the Progress Party has asked me on several occasions, to go in and direct the editorial choices that the NRK is making. But it is important that there are discussions in, for example, The Broadcasting Board on the editorial priorities of the NRC. The Progress Party is also represented there, and I expect the representative to address this issue with the representative of the Progress Party in the Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2001	We have major challenges in cultural construction. It's expensive fun. I have noticed that the government in the draft budget has reduced the government's share from 40 to 33 p.m. I can almost understand that. Although I think it would have been great if we could maintain the 40 pst, I can understand from what expectations we are facing. Almost no matter how much we save in that area, the list is still going to be long. We have major challenges in the process of sailing in Bergen. We have a wide range of medium-sized cultural buildings that are going to ask for support. In short, here we have to find other ways in. My question to the Council of State is: could she, for example, think of helping us to work on development within what we call OPS, i.e. Public Private Cooperation, to find new models for cultural buildings, such as: Does it look at Elverum? And could she imagine taking the initiative in Oslo to do something about the entire cabal here with new and old houses, with municipal and non-municipal houses? Could she briefly imagine making some sort of overall plan for how we're going to deal with the cultural building problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2008	As far as cultural construction is concerned in Oslo, in my opinion, the representative is concerned about something important. For many times the state has built houses, and then the Municipality of Oslo has made its own disposals, completely independent of what the state has done, because you just haven't talked. I just had a meeting with the mayor of Oslo about this problem, and we have agreed to make a better consultation arrangement. The challenge in the capital now is to get more and more scenes, and it's a challenge to fill them. In my opinion, cooperation is better for creating healthy competition. As far as the funds for national cultural buildings are concerned, it is quite right that the representative is concerned that many more people want to receive funding from this scheme. This is a system in which part of the budget is financed from the State budget. In addition, whether individual cultural buildings are financed by private means or not, a local decision will be taken. But this is a grant scheme in which we give funds to national cultural buildings above the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2017	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2020	Earlier today, this committee has discussed challenges faced by many children, and what measures we can take to improve children's childhood and growth and a better life. I want to draw some parallels from that debate to what I was going to say, which will essentially be about the importance of culture for social cohesion. We're a lot of people who watch the Skavlan on Friday night. Last Friday Josh Groban was a guest, and he said two things that were very interesting, which I was thinking of starting from my post. One was: I was so shy, but suddenly I realized that the song was my form of communication. The coincidences – he told us – made him known. We don't want a policy where it's just the coincidences that decide whether people with talent succeed, or whether there are people with economic interests behind them who will succeed, but we want a cultural policy that gives everyone the opportunity to succeed – in all parts of the population. What Josh Groban here describes is very illustrative of what the cultural promise and policy are really all about. I have even seen a young boy who previously did not say a word in company with others. He was given the opportunity to go to high school in India, where they have cultural lines – offers that would never have existed if the policies of the Progress Party had been implemented. Through that he got an interest in standing on stage. The person who was so shy in the past that he joined up with the wallpaper is now in the process of establishing an international career as an actor. We've heard stories about teachers who, when they get a visit to the cultural school bag, don't recognize their student – the student who may have been worried, considered a problem child, who didn't get positive feedback in school everyday, and who may rarely have experienced mastery, but who had a lump of clay between his hands, or the ability to act on a stage, etc., flourishes and shows completely new aspects of himself that surprise both the teachers, the individual student and the parents. We have also seen examples of the frightened, uneasy dents that you had to be three help nurses in the past to put in the evening, which just calm down – by singing with the person – and it's enough that one assistant nurse is in bed. We have also heard stories from older people's centres around the country, where there are forgotten scooters after there has been a concert at the senior institution because people get a sense of joy and life – and almost forget that you need a scooter. Something else Josh Groban said, which was interesting, was that when a place gets known for something, people come running. He even moved to New York because it was where the best theaters and museums lay. We have few cities in Norway that can compete with New York, but what do we think about when we hear the note? What do we think about when we hear "Voss"? What do we think about when we hear "Stiklestad"? It's just cultural experiences that create identity and pride for those who live there. It also creates new industries and new jobs. And Richard Florida has pointed out that if you manage to recruit the creative class to your area, many others will come after. Then new jobs and enthusiasm will be created. We see it clearly in Verdalen, where you have Stiklestad and many investments in culture and nutrition, that you have made a clear transition from a traditional industrial society to a lighthouse in new industries. We see the same effects around Notodden. And there's a lot of politics in this. We have also seen that studies show that large consumers of cultural services are small consumers of health services. And on the other hand, large consumers of health services are small consumers of cultural services. The health survey in Nord-Trøndelag also shows us that closeness to institutions and cultural services is crucial for how often cultural services are used. This shows that we need to be able to spread cultural resources more, geographically and not least to all the groups of the population. This is what culture for the people is all about – not the simple solutions of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2041	I just register, based on the answer given by the Council of State when it came to Tromsø and the rest of the world, that Lillehammer is also far from the Council's office. There's been a lot of talk about media policy today, and I think I'll start there. We've got some criticism that we're cutting in the press support. And let me just say it like this: it doesn't matter to me if I don't have to read or buy the Newspaper, the Class Fight and the Nations, to name someone. I can't see that it's going to be a government task to finance all the newspapers we have today, and that's also what we write in our notes. What we want is a new, modern and active media policy and not the policy that this government is pursuing: an old-fashioned and passive media policy. I raised a problem in the line change with the Council of State – and I think that is a big problem: the NRK is a big and important player in the media. And when it's also revealed through research that the NRK is not a neutral media actor, but it benefits some parties in terms of political attention, and especially in an election campaign, I think it's such a big and important question that it should be commented on here. The Council of State is, of course, passive. She pushed the Broadcasting Board in front of her. I think that's very passive by the Council of State. I wish she could be a little more active and say that this of course is such an important question that it will be addressed with the NRK. You have different channels where you meet, and that should be very important. The Council of State could possibly also hear whether this is an internal debate in the NRC, i.e. the way to be able to act as neutral as possible in the case of political parties. Because whether it's the Workers' Party or there are other parties that are repeatedly being distributed, the situation is just as bad. The NRK stands in a special position in many ways. The NRK has competitors that are struggling with the position NRK has. And when the statutes of the NRK are so worded – and then I think of Section 13d of the statutes – it really means that if the NRK wanted it, then the NRK could also have published a newspaper. I think that's very unfortunate. That the NRK is in the market on different platforms, I think we've all registered together, but when it happens in cooperation with other government agencies, this is very distortive. It's also, as I think it is, a big problem that the NRK operates in a lot of areas where the NRK has no natural space and does not have to have it either. I just want to mention here the media center you have in Förde, where you offer training and education to the business community. Is this a problem that NRK needs to run with? Aren't there other actors who can take care of that very piece? And then I think first of all of the communication companies and the PR agency, who are definitely able to take this. It would have been very interesting to know if there have been any discussion of editorial principles in relation to this in the NRK. I'm not going to spend much more time on the NRK. I have submitted an interpellation that will be debated in February in this Chamber, so we can certainly go into it more closely. For the last half minute, I'm going to use the game policy. I think there is quite a consensus on the game policy in this room, and that what goes back to sport, culture and humanitarian, social organisations is very important. Therefore, it becomes quite incomprehensible to me that the red-green parties do not want more of these funds to be allocated to such organisations, and that this will result in control of foreign gaming companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2058	As a representative from Telemark, I'm busy getting the Rjukan track on UNESCO's World Heritage List. The local and regional involvement of this project is enormous, and it is an incredibly important matter for us in Telemark. Rjukan is a good example of the modern industrial revolution, as we saw in the early 1900s in Norway, where a water power turned into electricity and created jobs. The Riksantikvaren believes that Rjukan has «world wide outstanding value». Today, Rjukanbanen is the most important single object in the Riksantikvaren proposal to get Rjukan the industrial city on the world heritage list. I am pleased that the Rjukan Railway has been subscribed to the Ministry of the Environment's chapter on technical and industrial cultural memory. I am also pleased that it has received support from the Municipality of Telemark and the municipalities of Tinn and Notodden. In the budget setting, the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture asks the Ministry of Culture to come back to this matter with a view to financing the Rjukan Railway in line with what has been done by the Ministry of the Environment. I have confidence in the department and that there will be a solution for this matter. What I think is a little broken, however, is that the Progress Party, despite the cross-political unity of Telemark, plays political coins on this in the county newspapers. The Progress Party and Rjukanbanen representative Bård Hoksrud was out in Telemark Arbeiderblad a couple of weeks ago and announced full stop in the plans for Rjukanbanen since this was not now in the state budget for culture. He also meant that this showed that we were not occupied with worker culture. First of all, it's not true that this project is stopping, and there's no way that we're not busy with working culture. So this political attack comes from a party that proposes a 1 billion cultural cut in its alternative budget. kr, a party that has also not seen one ear for this purpose in its own budget, but is nevertheless willing enough to ask our government to find money for it. In Telemark County, there has been a cross-political consensus in this matter, yet someone has decided to make political coins on the matter in the media, and asks us to find money for a purpose that they themselves do not prioritise in their budget. I trust that the Department will come back to this matter, as we put it in our remark. For me, it's a little hard to take it seriously when the Progress Party shouts for money for cultural purposes. What would cultural life have looked like after a period of party rule? 1 billion. kr in cut in one year gives us a small pointer. It's actually rarely that we can owe the Progress Party for having less money than us. But only that in itself is quite explanatory: cultural life would be ruined. This year, the government is continuing 256 ordinary work grants and 167 work grants for young/new-established artists. In addition, it is proposed to create 10 new work grants. This is a scholarship Progress Party, I don't think, has the right of life. These crowns go to many eager souls who create and care for our cultural heritage, who further develop him and create new art and culture. These create art and culture along the entire register. Why will the Progress Party get rid of these, and how can they think that the market is also best suited here to take care of our cultural heritage? Do we want to replace great craftsmanship with an industrially mass-produced product from Austen? I'm just asking. Art and culture are simply not static products. Very much of the art we have today, we didn't know five years ago that we wanted – how could we? But the Progress Party thinks we should decide for ourselves what art we want. I'm afraid this is being misunderstood, too much of the cultural heritage that we've been working on for years, people 100 years ago necessarily didn't know that it was so grossly important to take care of. That's what art and culture are, and that's how it should be. We would get a very poor art and cultural life if we were to put it up the way the Progress Party wants. Yes, very much would actually disappear, and very much we might never experience either. We want to bet on culture, and we do. We use money both for artisans who take care of instrument traditions and travel hood traditions, for young people's music binge, for Norway's Youth Team – who drives folk dance – for the Vest-Telemark museum, for cultural work for a more inclusive working life – and for the Norwegian Opera. Cultural life is, and must be, manifold and wide. It is through our broad and diverse cultural effort that we can best live art and culture for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2086	It's probably not the last time a representative of the government parties from this pulpit tells their surroundings that the overall objective of the government's Northern Region Strategy is to create sustainable growth and development in the North. On 27 April of this year, the agreement on the disputed sharing line between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea was signed. Our Prime Minister summed up in a great way what this agreement was also about: ‘The solution is also about much more than a line below sea level, it is about developing a good neighbourhood. It will unite much more than it will separate, and it will be a bridge to cooperation. It also confirms that Norway and Russia have a policy that is not about race but about cooperation. And that it can work as a model of how to solve other problems." Since then, we have established a border residence certificate within a 30 km zone between Norway and Russia. Both of these are likely to create more activity and cooperation between people living in the north. In such a perspective, cultural field and cross-border cultural cooperation become very important. We must not forget that it was the culture that was the door opener during the coldest coldest war in the 1950s. The key card used in 1959 was coded with sport and music, and it not only unlocked the border gates – it also reopened the natural interaction between people in the north. Since then, it has developed peacefully, and the government has also developed a Norwegian-Russian action plan for cultural cooperation in the north. The action plan aims to promote the development and strengthening of the friendly relationship and trust between the peoples of the two countries and expresses a desire to give new impetus to bilateral cooperation in the field of art and culture. At the heart of this is the BarentsKult cultural programme, which aims to contribute to the realisation of major art and cultural projects in the Norwegian and Russian regions of the Barents region. The programme should stimulate good, innovative art and cultural projects and involve artists from both Norwegian, Russian and other nations. So far they've gotten a lot more. An example of that is Barent's Spectacle. And those who haven't been to the churches early in February and got the festival, which is every year, should definitely do it – out in the bone frost, in the dark, with snow and wind and a variety of cultural activities by artists from many countries. These are experiences that give freezes on your back, literally. When one meets the culture in such harsh environments, one understands how important it is to bet on the culture that bridges between the peoples of the north. I'm guessing 9 million. The government grants cultural purposes in the northern regions are very well spent money. They're coming along well. I note that the Progress Party in its draft budget will cut 1 billion. cultural crowns. Many of these funds come from areas that hit the districts hardest. Four million. kr is taken by cultural purposes in the northern regions, 50 million. kr is removed from regional and sub-national institutions. From our skilled part-musicians in North Norway, 4 million will be collected. kr. And maybe the worst thing: every cultural crown has to be taken from the Sami population -- we're talking about 69 million. kr. Such cutting suggestions are in the district of Norway. I have to admit that I'm just as surprised every time I read the party's reasons for not giving money for Sami purposes, whether it's the Sameeting, it's a democratically elected body, or it's other cultural purposes that have to do with the Sami, like that. press support for Sami newspapers, or press support in general. The main reason is that there is discrimination and discrimination against the other Norwegian population. Most others will probably think that what the Progress Party does to the Sami population, in all policy areas, is what is discriminatory. I don't understand the party's argument, but I guess that's not the point either. I guess the government's using $8 billion. kr to maintain a diversity of cultural services and activities across the country, through volunteers to our professional institutions. The market cannot control this diversity alone. That is why it is important for the big community to contribute. The Norwegian media image has the same challenges, and we just have to recognise that it is not a large enough market to ensure a good newspaper offer to the population in the districts. It is therefore necessary for public support schemes to contribute to the creation of a wide range of media across the whole country. I record that the representative of Korsberg would prefer not to read newspapers like the Newspaper and the Class struggle. But he must take with him that also great and important newspapers such as the Altapost, the Zagath, and the Cave of Troms will disappear from his desk. We don't want to do that. To that end, all these newspapers are too important, with a view to maintaining a diversity in the media landscape. Such a race will not be part of the government. That's why we're using over 320 million. the need to ensure that diversity is maintained on the media’s side as well — across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2113	The story of the government's cultural effort is the closest thing you get to a real adventure. Not only have we received a formidable increase in the cultural budgets – next year's budget is almost 8 billion. kr – but culture is put on the agenda in a completely different way than before. Several have gained access to culture and professional art, and more are involved in cultural activities. During the last growing-up period, as a member of the Family and Culture Committee, I was able to visit and experience cultural institutions, artists and a large number of different cultural actors across the whole country. This period, as a member of the Health and Care Committee, I have had the opportunity to see what culture can do to people who are sick, physically or mentally. I've seen the communication power of culture in the encounter with older demented people. The cultural dimension of every human life emerges clearly when we are in a vulnerable or difficult situation in life. Art and culture have a very special role to play in such contexts. That's why I tend to say that we have to look in the direction of culture when we're going to think widely and wisely about how we're going to get a health-promoting society. That is what I say knowingly that there will probably be people who protest wildly, and who believe that art and culture must not be «instrumental», that is. serve any purpose other than seagoing. It claimed, among other things: City Council in Oslo, Torger Ødegaard from the Right, in an interview with the Daily Newspaper for a while. I think that's underestimating self-esteem in art and culture. Art so deeply tolerates going into the back of life; it doesn't lose any foothold or energy at all, it just becomes more relevant to more people. Next year's budget has a commitment to choral and vocal music that I almost have to characterize as a music policy paradigm shift. It all started in 2006, when red-green cultural politicians called for a proper raise for choirs and vocal ensembles, which had until then received far lower allocations from public budgets than had benefited orchestras and instrumental ensembles, despite the fact that more choirs in different parts of the country have achieved significantly higher artistic quality in recent years, among others. by recruiting good professional singers. But only a few cows have had the opportunity to pay the songs fees in line with what the instrumentalists get. The 2006 initiative aimed to strengthen the crossroads so that the best choirs can become an attractive venue for skilled performers who want to live from music and who have the voice as their instrument. The Storting started and allocated money to a three-year trial project for the professionalisation of Norwegian Cultural Council choirs. Now this trial project was not as successful as we had hoped, among other things. because you started a little late, and because the trial period was a little shorter. But the conclusions were clear: the choral and vocal fields need a lift, although the ideas related to how to take this further have varied a lot. Some people want to set up a completely new professional choir with regular employees singers, according to the model of symphony orchestras. Others believe that a pinch of the best choirs we have, with increased framework grants, needs to be strengthened in the same way that other free music ensembles receive their grants. We know that very many of the best and most experienced choral singers want the last thing, that is. that you want to be a freelancer in a choir that has an economy for example. to reward those who live by the song. I'm not going to hide that I also believe that this last solution is the best. That's why I'm very pleased with the comment of an almost collective family and culture committee, i.e. all the parties outside the Advance Party are behind: the Storing raises five choirs from different parts of the country, cows that have all achieved high quality, and which, based on various vocal traditions, operate what I almost want to call vocal basic research. I want to commend the vast majority of the Committee on Culture who have seen what this award, which has been awarded over Item 74 of the Culture Budget, will mean for music life in general and vocal music in particular. This is, in my opinion, the biggest thing at its best, when you have the power to gather about bets that are so obvious right, and that no one else seems to be able to take. It is good that the Norwegian Cultural Council has considerable responsibility, and of course also power, in Norwegian cultural life, but I would say that we had never received this promise for the choir and vocal field if not the Stortinget, at the Culture Committee, had used the space of action available to us, to take a cultural policy uplift of this calibre.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2129	There has been a broad and good debate – perhaps also with the background to the ‘Communication on Freedom for All’, 2006–2007 – on cultural diversity, voluntary involvement and participation, and not least on sport for all. Norway’s sports federation is with its 2.1 million memberships and more than 12 500 teams and clubs the country’s largest voluntary organisation. Sport is represented in all the municipalities and communities of the country. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State has now announced that a new sport announcement will be launched in 2011. It's both joyous and important. Today we can read on the websites of the Norwegian Sports Association: ‘This is a special day for Norwegian sport, a real day of jubilee,’ says Børre Rognlien, 2nd vice-president.’ He has previously also been a magnificent representative of the Right. What is referred to here is the introduction of a fair and good compensation system for the costs of goods and services, which benefits mainly all local sports, but of course also other teams and associations. Thanks to the opportunity to search for a simplified solution, the number of sports teams now receiving compensation has increased from 200 in 2009 to more than 3,600 in 2010. The Government and the Council of State have fulfilled their promises and increased the sum of last year to 396 million. kr for the whole voluntary sector. Next year, we know that the sum is going to be 608 million. kr. When we know at the same time that the government has said that by 2014 this scheme will reach 1.2 billion. kr, this will be a historic boost for volunteering and sport in particular. In addition, we have the new VAT system for the construction of sports facilities, which will also benefit locally. In the case of herbal remedies, as I mentioned in a previous article, we had almost 211 million in 2009. kr. In 2010, this is estimated at 255 million. kr. It is important that increased appropriations in the voluntary sector and sport in particular benefit the grassroots. Direct transfers, including: the VAT on goods and services, the proportion of grassroots, local means of activity and, in particular, the VAT system relating to buildings and installations, benefit the voluntary sector. They will contribute to more activities, more facilities and will provide better physical health and not least involvement and activity in all our communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2151	I note that on Friday, Dagbladet has been engaged in a new cultural struggle, to the benefit of the so-called professionalisation of cultural policy, by shifting appropriations for cultural action from the cultural budget to the Council of Culture budget. In newspaper terminology, moving cultural power from Stortinget to the Council of Culture means. This transfer has, among other things, hit Stella Polaris in the municipality of Stokke in my home country. I do not underestimate the fact that many people have fallen to the chest in my home country, precisely because we have experience with the Council of Culture, and first got up the appropriations for this unique gingerbread theater when they entered the cultural budget. Now we're taking a step back to a cultural council that in its time starved Stella Polaris, and that didn't pay particular attention to medieval fertilization with international recognition. Only when, after political pressure – and call it so – did Stella Polaris take up the cultural budget, did the guttering in Stuck Development Opportunities. But the best of all: we felt then that we had helped to give Stella Polaris predictable working conditions. Now, of course, I hope Stella Polaris will have a better life this time under the protection of the Council of Culture than before, but of course it remains to be seen. With its distorted starting point, the Dagbladet actually raises a useful debate, namely whether it is the politicians who are to govern cultural policy, and to what extent, or how much is to be left to the cultural bureaucrats or the Council of Culture. I do not believe – yes, I admit – that as a politician, I have helped to promote cultural measures that would otherwise not receive state aid. Had it not been for the same political commitment, it is my claim that many good cultural initiatives had simply faded and died away. I see nothing but that culturalism is also a snare to seek political support when there is something they need money for. That's the way it should and of course it has to be. Imagine if the opposite was the case – if we had politicians who didn't care, who didn't want to sunbathe in the shine of good cultural action from landing to landing. Then culture became poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2160	Freedom of expression is one of the most fundamental things every democracy has, and which we strongly protect – «at least what it will cost» lies as a red thread in most democracies around the world. This has been particularly strong in Western democracies, where different media platforms, most often serving as arenas for different opinions, have been anchored in Western democracies. Looking back, the Muhammad drawings were an example of how we were very strongly challenged in the name of freedom of speech. In particular, it became difficult when Norwegian values in the rest of the world fell. Even when the most dramatic pictures rolled over the screens, freedom of speech was defended. Many people were left with a feeling that freedom of expression sometimes makes very bad, literally. But in these WikiLeaks times, the West is now challenged on the altar of freedom of speech. We can all have opinions about how WikiLeaks got access to their information, but it's there, and it's available. Then it is interesting to note that when Western democracies are challenged as directly as they do through the WikiLeaks revelations, there is a rush to prevent the information now in WikiLeaks’ hands from becoming even more accessible. This is done by trying to close the access to the company’s computer servers and to prevent the company’s access to its own economy through card companies and payment services. It is not acceptable in my view. Especially the United States has been active in these trials. But it seems that this struggle to prevent access to information is lost. The opposite happens: information becomes even more accessible through a network of data servers around the world. For my part, I hope that the authorities around the world will not exercise this kind of information control – whether it is never so controversial and challenges us at the most painful points. We criticize China for what they do to their people, most recently in the context of the peace-price distribution – even no.no was banned. We must not do the same thing that we criticize China so strongly for. I note that unfortunately there are strong attempts to follow China's example. We must prevent that from happening. We have to endure being exposed to freedom of expression, even through the methods WikiLeaks challenge us. It's only when we get to test ourselves – if we really want to protect freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2173	Several have said nice things about the cultural school so far in the debate, and here it comes more – until the President knocks me off! I start by quoting the Cultural Promise II, which is, of course, the government's common priority in the area of Norwegian cultural policy. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘A cultural school promise shall be made so that all children wishing to receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price. This must be ensured through state incentives and a solid local economy. The development of a wider cultural school offer in connection with SFO/school is to be investigated. There shall be spaces for the different local organisation of the cultural school. Facilitating the visibility of the cultural school and the development of talent.’» As we all know, a sample was put down, and we've got a report. That report is now out of the question and the deadline for consultation is already 14 February. Now, many – not least municipalities – have to engage in this hearing, because this is important and it is demanding. It operates with statements here as ‘good quality’, ‘reasonable price’, ‘solid municipal economy’, etc. This is demanding. It is also demanding because here municipalities, perhaps also county municipalities, local and regional cultural life and not least a few-three departments are working together for everyone's enjoyment and benefit. Here we're also going to get a culture of culture and a school culture to meet, to stimulate each other and respect each other. In many municipalities this works very well already today, but in some municipalities it has hardly begun. It's a very readable report we're dealing with here. It describes the cultural school in itself, and not least its peculiarity, in a very good way. In addition, there is a very good report in describing what SV sees as a clear ambition in the field of school, namely the full-time school. For it describes in a very good way both the content and the direction of a comprehensive primary school day – not to disconnect from learning by taking the arts and cultural subjects more in, but on the contrary to increasing the learning efficiency and not least that of education, which is so important in our school. Because it's a problem – and that's where the selection is very good – that the arts and culture sector has got lower status in our school lately. We don't just have to stop this development, but we have to reverse it, so that we can get the arts and culture into it. Then it's good that we've got 40 million. kr this year, and that we're going to get 40 million. kr next year, but we all agree – with the exception of the Advancement Party – that if this is to be realized in a good way and is to be further developed, as we all want, there must be more money on the table, so that one does not just get this perspective into 1-4. class, but it also tends to go on up in the school years. And one way to take up that debate is to include it in the primary education message, which we are also going to deal with beyond spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2189	There were just some things I want to mention. One is about copyright. Every time we get back to it, we're told that there's going to be a proposition for an upgrade of the copyright. I look forward to that, but I would like to remind you that there is nothing wrong in itself with the basis of the law to defend copyrights today either. What's wrong with that is our willingness to actually do that, that's to put demands behind it. I miss a bigger initiative and a bigger government's willingness to do so. I noticed that Ecokrim received eight – or maybe even nine – positions on culture, and none of them were in order to enforce copyright. They were all dedicated cultural memory protection. I think it could be at least as important to dedicate them copyright and take the discomfort it is actually to follow up better in that area. That's what they said. Second, the Ministry of Culture is the second important department of culture, called the Ministry of Finance. There is a lot of work to do with VAT at the moment. We have VAT on e-books, and we may get VAT on newspapers – it’s not good to know – and we have VAT issues related to e-services, and we have cultural VAT. There's a lot of VAT at all. But with regard to the first ones I mentioned, it is common to them that they are cultural matters in the ‘digital generalisation’. I believe that there is an important blow about whether you see it as possible or not to set up any fences in that ‘public opinion’. I would not be very surprised if someone in the Ministry of Finance thought that they would rather not have the fences – simply because then it would be more crooked and difficult to deal with the VAT issues. But from the point of view of cultural policy, it must be vital to be able to set up some of these fences. It's about important things to defend in a lot of cases. And then I got a challenge from the Minister of Culture – whether it was less instrumental to use cultural resources for nutrition. No, of course it's not. It is an expression of instrumentalism, and I think we can well drive instrumentalism in a number of areas. Right will be in it if it doesn't -- I kept saying -- too much. But we're going to say it when we do it, we're going to be clear when we do it, and it's going to follow money with what we want. My criticism of the government will go on where you put leadership more generally, for example. in the certificates of allocation. And then I often come back to Trond Giske's years of diversity, which I think was a real outrage when it was just that. Otherwise, we have also been engaged in creating an organisation within culture and industry, but it is the more thought of it as a contrast to the Council of Culture and as a distributor of power in relation to the Council of Culture of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2200	It's soon Christmas, and then you'll be nice to each other. I would like to say that I think the Workers' Party deserves praise for the initiative that was taken in its time when it was about flagging the cultural promise as an important political matter, and I would also like to say that the red-green government in the years since then has shown both the will and the ability to implement the escalation of budgets from year to year. In particular, the first Stoltenberg government of 2005 has had a unique economic space. It has been historically good times. The government came to the table and covered the table, as Arne Strand in the Newspaper wrote, so he thought about the economic situation in Norway. So it was just to be missing that you didn't also prioritize cultural life. But I still think there's respect for the growth we've seen. That's why I'm also very happy to stress that the Right has been on this growth in the cultural budgets. The right has not taken one penny from the cultural budgets in these years, and I am very pleased about that. So maybe it's more important to get the difference in your thinking. When you agree to spend a lot of money, and more money over time, it may be the money-use device – the policy if you want – that becomes important. There, the Right and Government parties – perhaps first and foremost the Workers' Party that has had the Council of State in these years – separate layers. You might say a lot more nice about the Workers' Party, I think I'll leave it with that for me. But the key to diversity and the spread of power is probably not what you think first and foremost about when you look at and discuss the philosophy, ideology and history of the Workers' Party. It has been said here in the past that the Workers' Party – the Red-Green Government – has an instrumental view of the field of culture and cultural policy. I don't think you need to be a historian or have any special skills to prove that. History shows it, and we also see it in a number of other areas of society. I myself now work mostly in the field of research and research policy. It's the exact same discussion there. Otherwise, there are many interesting similarities between the cultural field and the research field that it's interesting to look at. With regard to the film bet, which is mentioned here – which has been great – it is clear that there is a small amount of the film money that benefits film bet outside Oslo. If we look at the opera bet, it's ten pst. of the operating aids that benefit the rest of the country, when we subtract from the Norwegian Opera. When the budget increases to next year, it's only 5 pst. of this increase to be broken down into 14 regional operas around the country. It's clear that it's a centralization and a pretty big bias.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2211	In the previous debate, Stokkan-Grande said that there is a special way the opposition reads the budget, or not just the budget, but a special way we read Stokkan-Grande's articles in the newspapers. Well, I can say that it's a special way for government parties to read the cultural budget of the Progress Party as well. We're accused here of cutting drastically, and that we're raging Culture-Norway – if the Advance Party had been in government, there wouldn't have been any culture at all. Let me first say that we in the Progress Party have never said that we want to use 1 pst. of the State budget for culture. When the representative Vågslid says that the Advance Party cuts 1 billion. kr per year, it is completely wrong. As in all other years, the Progress Party has presented its budget. This year's budget for culture is 662 million. kr higher than last year. Then you might remember that former Minister of Culture Giske was honoured by Kultur-Norge for an amazing commitment to culture, it was probably in 2007. Yes, the budget of the Progress Party this year is in fact over 800 million. kr higher than the budget for which the Gishe submitted and was approved. One might say that the Progress Party comes after, but maybe a little bit slower than the government wants. But at least that is the priority of the Progress Party. It is a song that goes like this: Slowly leads somewhere too. I can reassure Culture-Norway that culture will continue even after the Party of Advancement comes to power. So the State Council of Huitfeldt said in her statement that she had calculated that the tickets to the «Tribe of the Christmas Star» were going to cost NOK 1000 with the budget of the Progress Party. I should like to see that math. So I want to remind the Council of State that yesterday tickets were put out for the Rihanna concert to be next year. In three minutes it was sold out. There were tickets with price from NOK 600 to NOK 650. So it's possible to make money on things, and it's assumed that the market controls a lot of concerts and performances – if it's interested in it, tickets are sold. I have great faith that the «Travel to the Christmas Star» is still going to be set up as a play even if the Advance Party comes to power. The cultural budget of the Progress Party is different from that of the Government. We have a lot more bet on children and young people, bet on volunteering, and we're also betting on volunteering and sponsoring. When we were visiting the United States with the Forum for Culture and Business this winter, we really saw that the policy of the Progress Party is going on, because there they are betting on volunteering, which they are betting that private actors and sponsors can be involved in supporting culture. It is part of the arrangement that the Progress Party has on its cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2222	Today's debate, in relation to last year's debate, has shown a greater degree of assembly and recognition of the fact that there is a broad majority behind the promise of cultural appropriations that has taken place in previous years and that will continue next year. The fact that we don't have the same split-and-rule attempts and attempts at a few parties taking ownership of something that several parties have been involved in helps to strengthen cultural policy and the basis for further growth in the cultural budgets in the years to come. Then the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen was not satisfied with the criticism that was directed at the red-greens for conducting an instrumental cultural policy. I agree that culture tolerates the meeting with the different areas of life and the challenges of life. The question is whether cultural policy tolerates the same meeting with other sectors. This is, of course, a discussion not only about practicalities and appropriateness, but about how political power can be used and how political power can be abused. That is what this debate is about, and therefore there is a need for greater humility in relation to it. As far as the issue of the professionalisation of choirs is concerned, it should be said that it is very good that there is now a majority to raise the cor field. When we know how much a professional level can inspire the width, it's a paradox that that instrument we all have is what we've neglected just when it comes to betting on a professional level. It's good that there's excitement about strengthening the crossroads, but what's in the budget here is no basis for professionalization. You're far away from something that makes us talk about having a professional choir at the level that we want and should have ambitions about, in what's here now. Finally, I would like to say that the Cultural School Committee, as it has been referred to many times today, does not point to what the red-greens in every article about the cultural school come into, that the cultural school and the SFO are almost going to merge. On the contrary, the committee says that we have cultural schools throughout the country, adapted to the local conditions under which they actually live. Then we have to develop the solutions based on the local conditions. That's what the sample actually promises, and that's what the job's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2233	First, a little word about the grass root. The representative, Skei Grande, thought in the line change instead that the grass root fraction had not contributed to more money. I think she's wrong. In any case, where I come from, more people have become both violent and enthusiastic and put in an extra coupon precisely because they had the opportunity to support their local sports team or local choirs. In my hometown, Gryllefjord on Senja, which has 400 inhabitants, you get far up on the list of the county's grassroots percentage, precisely because people want to support the local sports team. That's why I think the representative Skei Grande is wrong that this hasn't caused anyone to play a little bit more, without them playing from the farm and land for that reason. We do not want that either. A word about Norwegian Cultural Council. I support the Norwegian Cultural Council's important role in Norwegian cultural life, but I understand the representative Olemic Thommessen when he says he's afraid of centralization and power concentration. Because it doesn't serve cultural life. So I understand his concern. That's exactly why the red-green cultural fraction made a very clear remark when we dealt with the Culture Council in the previous period, where we said that it is important to have good geographical recruitment both to the council and to the selections. I've been to the Norwegian Cultural Council myself, and I've seen that the best selections are the ones that know a lot about cultural life all over the country. That is why the peoples who sit in the Council of Culture are, in fact, absolutely crucial to whether this is going to be a seminar, or whether this is going to open up to cultural life all over the country. That's why it's important. So a little bit about artistic discretion. The debate has gone as if artistic discretion is an exact science. It's not. Of course, artistic discretion that people exercise depends on the position that humans have, both geographically, socially and artistically. Therefore, we should recognise that the Norwegian Cultural Council is a significant cultural policy force factor in Norwegian cultural life, and that is why it is so important to have the good balance between the Council of Culture, the Ministry of Culture and the Stortinget. That is why I was also very happy when I talked about what the Stortinget has done to get this promise for choir and vocal music. And no, as the representative Håbreek said, it's not like we're done professionally, but raising the limits of some of the best cows in the country is a very important step on the way. I am very pleased about that, and I want to commend the majority of the Committee on Culture, which has made that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2242	A representative of the Workers' Party from Finnmark, Kåre Simensen, stood here and guaranteed diversity in Avis-Norway in the future, that the newspaper landscape should exist as it does, and that all newspapers that exist today should be supported, even the very least. It's a very exciting guarantee to give. The Progress Party sees a lot happening within Media-Norway and within the entire media landscape. VG and Aftenposten are two major newspapers, which run from Oslo, but they also run television stations. So what do we have? Do we have a newspaper? Do we have a TV? Do we have a mix? Yes, this is going to be exciting to discuss in the future, but to stand here and guarantee something I think is really tough. We've now got TV8 in Follo and in Rome. They have started a local TV, but they have a lot of competition from the big TV companies. But they also have competition from the newspapers. As I said initially, they operate television stations. Here are challenges. Then I want to go to another area, which I asked the Council of State in a line. It was about the castle museum, which I thought sounded exciting. I thought the project was exciting. I think it is fine that all parties have been united both in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Culture on this gift. Now I understand that you shouldn't talk about gifts when it might be listened to. The majority of these two committees have said that it is not about an exhibition, but they have mentioned the word castle museum. That is why I find it strange that the Council of State says something other than what is clearly stated in unanimous comments from these committees – yes, at least the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. In conclusion, the Rjukan Railway was mentioned and the Progress Party makes political coins on the Rjukan Railway. I would like to mention to the representative Awake! that we have also meant something about the Aurskog-Høland Railway, which has an infrastructure that stands and falls due, but which is an important cultural heritage in line with the Rjukan Railway. It may not be so great and does not appear on any world heritage list, but it is at least important for the cultural heritage. For us, it's not important to make political coins, it's important to put them in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2255	I found $10 on the way up to the pulpit, so this is going to be a profitable post! I'm just going to say that it's possible that someone sees the Progress Party as the biggest threat to Norwegian cultural life. Now we have heard – I think it was – Solvency Horne, who could assure that cultural life would exist even if the Advance Party came into government. I think so, too, not least because the Progress Party hardly comes into government without doing it together with the Right. Then maybe the Right will be more eager to get the Minister of Culture than the Progress Party will be – at least if we are to believe in Carl I. Hagen's analysis of the priorities of the Progress Party. So I think cultural life can relax. So it's that the Right's main criticism of government in terms of cultural policy is exactly what I think is the biggest threat to cultural life in Norway, and that's power concentration both governance and geographically. I believe that the Labour Party and the Minister of Culture, to a greater extent than a Minister of Culture from the Right, like the central bodies, the central actors, the national institutions and the large organisations. Yes, the Minister of Culture has even said directly to me that small independent organisations do not exist in Norway – all are part of something bigger. So that's where we disagree. That's why it's very good to hear Tove Karoline Knutsen, who agrees that there is a real danger that there will be a concentration of power in Culture-Norway, and not least in political governance over Culture-Norway. The right is less than the Workers' Party, I think, adhering to strong political governance of such a fragile, yet as important a field as the cultural field. There we have exactly the same principleal thinking and approach to, for example. the field of research, which has much in common with this. What is the big challenge for a small country like Norway, is that centralisation is very easy. We don't have the size, the people and the skills enough to spread everything thinly. We have to admit that. The more important it becomes to maintain and strengthen a few challenges geographically or in terms of the way the greatest think. Oslo will always be the capital. Oslo will always have the major national institutions. But if that's just what Kultur-Norge is left with – and I put it on the verge of course now in some areas – then Culture-Norway will tap it. We need the challengers, we need strong cultural cities like Bergen, Stavanger and other cities, where you have people and skills that can challenge the capital and thinking there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2269	I want to correct the previous representative who claims that I have said something to him that I have never said. This discussion goes back to a discussion we had about voluntary organisations and VAT compensation, where the representative Warloe considered that all independent organisations in Norway do not receive VAT compensation, which they receive. Those who are affiliated to a county organisation or are central or are a large enterprise will receive VAT compensation. Distorting my words does not contribute to an enlightened cultural debate. I thought it was an interesting point Henning Warloe came into his post. I noticed that, unlike the representative Olemic Thommess, who on repeated occasions in this Chamber is concerned with showing the difference between the Right Party and the Advance Party in cultural policy, he made a historical contribution, showing that the Right Party and the Advance Party can also find together in this area. I see that the representative Horne smiles, and I see that this is a shift in the Right Cultural Policy. The Progress Party also talks in this discussion about having more commercial players, that parents can afford to pay $600 to bring their kids to the theater and concert, and they're talking about the self-fulfilling and self-honoured cultural life. Here there is a big difference between the right side and the left side of Norwegian policy, and I am not particularly positive about the new signals from the Right Representative in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2278	Henning Warloe has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2281	I don't think the Minister of Culture may have listened so carefully – in that case she must be the last politician or state councillor in the Workers' Party who has discovered that very many in Norway are talking about a possible government change in 2013, and in the case: What are the parties that will make up a new government? It can go so that it becomes the Right Party and the Advance Party, among other things, which will try to find together in a new government. That means that we have to agree on all parts of the government's policy. I think it's pretty fast done because the Progress Party is going to give up. The Progress Party has already said in several contexts, prominent figures for the party, that cultural policy is not what will be crucial for the Progress Party. I'm dealing with it, and I think that's a pretty good theory. That means that the Right will govern cultural policy after 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2286	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Opinion in Case No 1–5, see pages 1819, 1830, 1832 and 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2302	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2318	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2334	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2350	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2366	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2383	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2399	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2407	Then the Storting is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2415	A total of 39 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1, 2, 8 and 9, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3 to 5, 10 and 11, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, on behalf of the Party for Progress and Right-wing Proposals No. 6 and 12-30, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 7 and 31-33, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 34, by Gunn Karin Gjul on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 35–39, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–33 is included on pages 109 to 111 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 34–39 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 35, 37 and 39, from the left. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a communication to the Storting on the same situation and living conditions.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting on grants to non-governmental organisations to facilitate recreational activities for children from low-income families.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with concrete escalation plans related to an investment programme for library premises and competence development for library employees.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2467	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 36, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case of other and more time-consuming ways of financing a public broadcaster than today’s licence.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2484	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 38, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a concrete escalation plan related to infrastructure and collection management at Norwegian museums.’ The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2501	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7, 31 and 32, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to step up the adoption aid to 2 G during the ageing period’.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up regulations for the cultural school activities which ensure the professional and social profile of the offer.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to reintroduce the system of earmarked grants for the cultural schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2528	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the game policy and submit it to the Stortinget.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2545	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 12 and 14–30, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to file a case for the winding-up of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and for the amendment of the Equality Act so that other bodies, including the courts and the Labour Inspectorate, are given the task of enforcing the key provisions of the Act.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case for assessing future forms of operation for national cultural institutions, with a view to further improving their access to the public, market alignment, efficiency, etc.’.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that the Swedish Confederation of Motor History Vehicle Clubs can become a cultural conservation organisation.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish a grant scheme for voluntary activities, the aim of which is to stimulate activities for children and young people’. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the scheme of state grants in the field of art.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the scheme of scholarships to artists.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to liquidate the guarantee income scheme.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to ensure that measures are implemented within the framework of the State budget for 2011, which is supposed to involve good cross-ministerial cooperation, in order to register stolen art and cultural objects in open searchable international databases.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to use more than before the art already in its possession to decorate public buildings.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case for the reassessment of future operational plans for the Norwegian Opera & Ballet, with a view to reducing the public contribution.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that measures are implemented to enable Fetsund Lenser to expand and develop the project for the organisation and accessibility of people with disabilities.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that measures are taken to strengthen the role of the Norwegian Maritime Museum in relation to coastal culture.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks that it be organised to enable the Coastal Fortress in Hordaland to be developed as a national museum.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the proper maintenance of the main infrastructure of Urskog – Hölandsbanen for the future’.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that measures are implemented allowing local television to sell swings over a web-based solution, where security, age limitation and identification are as well ensured as at Norsk Tipping and Rikstototo.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government of the next year’s government budget to submit proposals on normal business collection procedures for the NRK licence.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the television licence system.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to negotiate agreements with broadcasters which give the authorities the right to use the ether media in specific emergency situations’.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to allow foreign and other gambling companies to establish themselves in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2655	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a binding maintenance plan to national cultural institutions.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2672	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 10, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before it to establish an independent supervision of kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the 2012 government budget to ensure that Dissimili’s Centre of Culture and Competences is provided with predictable and good financial framework conditions through the creation of a separate State budget entry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2694	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 5 and 11, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the opening of pilot projects where municipalities can take full responsibility for the child protection service.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to grant to all fathers the autonomous right to benefit and the right of withdrawal of the parental allowance granted to the mother in accordance with the requirements of the obligation of activity.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the added value scheme for digital material used in the libraries.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e2723	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 8 and 9, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a case concerning the recruitment of pre-school teachers to kindergarten, as is the case with the GNIST initiative for teachers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the system of child protection supervision is strengthened and that the children receive the supervision they require.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a system based on objective criteria whereby the voluntary sector is fully exempted from VAT expenditure as compensation for the current VAT compensation scheme.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the appropriate return to the Storting with proposals for setting up a support scheme for the procurement of instruments in children’s and youth orchestras.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e4326	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e4339	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e6426	When proposal No 34 have now been adopted, Roman numerals I and II in Framework Area 3 will not be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e6546	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e7707	The size then goes to voting in the case no. 6-12. All of these matters are the second reading of the law. In order to save time, the President, if the Storting does not object to it, will now make an overall vote on Acts 23 and 24, and from Act 26 to Act 30. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comment on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at second reading, and all of them will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-14.ana.ud490e7801	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
