ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e39	The Socialist Left Party Group has requested that the granted leave of the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland be extended until Tuesday 23 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Lasse Kinden Endressen, continues to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e57	The representative of Oskar Jarle Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e60	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Henning Skumsvoll, Tord Lien, Robert Eriksson, Harald T. Nesvik and myself to present a proposal for a representative to change the requirement for immediate CO2 recovery in new gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e68	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e82	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e91	The message we have to deal with here today is a direct follow-up to Storting’s previous requests that the Riksrevision should follow up in particular its revision of the State pension fund – abroad. With the extent to which the Pension Fund, or rather, parts of our national wealth, has now been given, this part of the national accounts must have a high priority when the National Audit Office is to choose its fields of activity. A unanimous committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision has carried out an extended audit of the State pension fund and that the results have been transmitted to the Stortinget in a separate document. It is the Swedish Social Security Fund that manages the State pension fund Norway. The Board of Directors of the Fund shall be responsible for ensuring that the activities are subject to prudential control. Neither did SPN go free of the financial crisis. It is therefore gratifying to note here that the Swedish Social Fund as well as the Ministry of Finance managed the crisis in a very good way. The Committee is also pleased that clear alert procedures are in place in the management agreement between the Fund and the Ministry of Finance and that these will be further clarified. The main objections of the National Audit Office are the State pension fund — Foreign. An assessment of the valuation of financial instruments and the lending of securities in the State pension fund abroad has been carried out in cooperation between the Accounting and Management Department of the National Audit Office. It is not reassuring when the investigation reveals a lack of framework for the lending of securities in the SPU. At the end of 2008, the loan amounted to approx. NOK 534 billion, or approx. 23 pst. of the management capital. I have noticed that the Ministry of Finance aims to provide new rules on lending in connection with the new SPU management legislation. It is good and necessary for new rules to come now. The fact that this is happening is, in my view, a broad consensus on the need for clear rules for lending. The national audit further indicates that extensive lending of securities in the SPU portfolio has been carried out without the loan being explicitly regulated in the framework until 2009. The Committee has noted that proposals for new legislation propose to limit the amount of the loan so that lending is not used to increase the financial risk of the fund. We expect appropriate legislation now to be put in place quickly. In addition, an overall committee shall require the establishment of procedures to ensure that Stortinget provides relevant information on borrowing practices. There is reason, both by the National Audit Office and by the Committee, to ask questions about the investment in US mortgage bonds from 2002. When an administrator of over NOK 2000 billion chooses to raise loans in the 50 billion kr-class to invest in bonds without guarantees in the US housing market, it should have been a prerequisite for securing the necessary skills. However, according to Norway’s Bank Investment Management, from the outset it was solely dependent on external expertise due to lack of internal competence. Only from the autumn of 2009 has the internal competence been informed. That is good, but this is the background to the overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs behind the criticism that it has taken so long to establish the necessary control procedures. The Committee's observations are unanimous on several points. There is agreement on the criticism and that it is positive that the legislation now appears to be in place. However, there are three specific comments. As regards these comments from the opposition, I would like to stress that the matter under consideration by the Committee concerns comments on the accounts and the management of the State pension fund for the financial year 2008. Changes in the audit regime or the establishment of a separate board are outside the scope of the case and naturally fall within the scope of the treatment of the announced notification of the management of the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e112	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for his good work and join in the main part of the speech by the rapporteur of the case, and then express the importance that the Riksrevision carried out this extended revision as an addition to Document 1 for 2009-2010. Government pension funds abroad manage a very large proportion of citizens’ funds. If the fund were to be distributed to each of the Nordics, I think one would get about 500,000 kroner each. It shows the importance of the Riksrevision’s four management of the Fund’s specific attention. The size and purpose of the Fund means that the authorities must be particularly careful in managing it, in order to strike a reasonable balance between the return on investment and the risk. One of the main points of the Riksrevision is that the risk of managing the fund has been increased by borrowing securities, or the gear, as it is called. There has been insufficient focus on the framework of these activities, and there is much evidence that the Ministry of Finance did not really have an overview of the scope. In the 2009 national budget, the Ministry of Finance states that ‘the fund is fully financed’. This information was incorrect. In this way, the size has not been given sufficient information to assess whether this loan is acceptable or not. When the Ministry of Finance in this way withholds information from the Stortinget, it may be due to two factors, either that the Ministry has deliberately hidden the information from the Stortinget – that would, of course, be very serious – or that the department itself has not been aware of the facts. The Progress Party has taken the last into account and assumes that it has not been the Ministry of Finance's intention to withhold the information. But it does not change the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. It is worrying that the department has not had an adequate overview. Now there's a new code in place. I assume that the Stortinget is invited to address the important administrative issues, including: whether or not the SPU should allow the lending of securities and, in the case of which, in the context of the notified default notification. The size takes into account the management profile of the other asset classes and the distribution of the different asset classes. It would be perfectly natural for the Storting to also take a position on the extent of the gearing, which the Committee as a whole has taken into account in the Committee's comments. I would also like to point out that the Riksrevision has stated that one should select the Riksrevision as an external auditor for the SPU. The background is that the Stortinget will thus strengthen the Riksaudien’s supervisory responsibilities towards Norway’s Bank, and contribute to a better control of whether the Stortinget’s decisions and assumptions have been followed up. I am referring to the fact that the Progress Party and the Left have previously made proposals in line with the views of the National Audit Office, and I believe that this will continue to be an appropriate way of organising the audit. However, this issue has been addressed in depth, both in the Inst. S. No 278 for 2008-2009 on the examination of the management of the State pension fund — Foreign Affairs, SPU, and on the annual control of the Bank of Norway and the Innst. O. No 93 for 2008-2009. Thus, I refer to the comments and debates on the issue, which is, to a large extent, on the side of the main part of this report. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that the Riksrevision continues to keep the search light strongly focused on the management of the SPU. It is also important for the Ministry of Finance to ensure that large parts of the population’s money are put into unnecessary high play, using e.g.: gear ratio too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e133	Let me mainly join the rapporteur's statement, which essentially covers my vision. Let me then add that, of course, the Riksrevision's task is not to review the Storting decision. This phrase has the address of the last article. It also has the address of the National Auditor’s opinion at a press conference after this report had been presented, expressing disagreement in the Stortinge’s decision that the State pension fund abroad is below the Bank of Norway, to put it so. It was a decision with broad agreement in Stortinget. Let me also point out and underline that this audit includes the Ministry of Finance's management, management, control and follow-up of the two funds. In my article I want to focus on the Staten pension fund – abroad and point out that in this position there is really only criticism on one essential point. It is where the Committee says that ‘it considers it critical that there has been no general or other framework for lending activities of such magnitude’ mentioned in the statement. It's a criticism I naturally put myself behind. Then there is a disagreement, obviously, between the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance on the level of detail management. There the Committee says that it agrees that ‘running detailed management is neither possible nor desirable’. I agree. I think a continuous detailed management would lead to a weakened interest in working with the fund. I also think that would make it more difficult in terms of the fund's ability to adapt to changing markets. Then I don't think of things as dramatic as what happened to the financial crisis, but the fact that there are still changes in the market and in the value of the market. It would make the fund more difficult to adapt to this. Then, in the same sentence, the Committee says that it ‘will underline that the type of disposition must be based on clear, broad guidelines from the owner’. I believe that the owner also believes and has notified me that someone will come back to the message that I understand will come before Easter. That's good. Then there is hope of treatment also in the current session. The Committee has also taken note of the discussion between the Ministry of Finance and the National Audit Office on whether the Storting has been adequately informed of the practice of borrowing. Well, it must be the Storting that must primarily have an opinion about, not the Riksrevision. I'm probably in doubt that information at an earlier stage about the loan conditions would lead to some reaction in the Storting, but you might have different opinions about that. However, I note that no one in the committee has found reason to express themselves more strongly than they think this issue is timely and assumes that the department submits a practice that provides the Storting with relevant information or procedures to ensure the Storting. Then I see that there has been a certain debate also about whether SPU, the State pension fund – abroad, should previously establish internal expertise in the US bond market. I understand the criticism that has been raised here. On the other hand, Stortinget has repeatedly been very insistent that costs must be kept down in the fund. What's very decisive about the returns is in the long run also the costs of the administration. So it might well be here that the Storting has expressed itself somewhat ambiguously or added to two objectives that in some cases can collide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e152	The case rapporteur went into the matter thoroughly and described the challenges well. What was the main point of the rapporteur's statement was that we need to have procedures that can reduce risk to a greater extent, since we are talking here about long-term investments of great importance to the Norwegian people. What has emerged from the review by the National Audit Office, as well as from the examination of the case by the Financial Committee, is the question of whether the necessary framework has been in place. It has been focused particularly on the occasion of lending and lending, which helps to increase the risk. It is the opinion of the Centre Party that the oil fund, as a long-term investor, should not sell shares that are not owned and should not enter into decisions on interest rate developments in order to achieve more return. The centre party considers that the fund with its time horizon for today’s investment areas should only carry out ordinary share transactions and bond purchases, and the financial management of the pension assets must be reviewed and aligned on principles that reduce the risk of loss. There is a reasonable consensus on these principles, and the financial crisis has shown that one must have greater vigilance on this than that which has been understood in the past, in the same way as in the financial market in general, has been much more reserved to allow, for example. short sales. The second question I would like to draw attention to, and which has also been raised, is the ongoing management of the fund, which is currently being carried out through the capital management department of Norway's Bank, i.e. Norway's Bank Investment Management, NBIM. It is necessary to look at its future organisation in order to avoid a mix of roles and problems of stability. We know, of course, that the State pension fund Norway is organised through a special law company, and over some time, one should switch to the corresponding system for the State pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e165	The State pension fund is an important tool in a policy that is widely agreed in Norway, and it is that oil wealth is to be managed in the long term and safely for the benefit of current and future generations. It is Stortinget that has given the Ministry of Finance responsibility for managing the fund. The national audit shall monitor whether the ministry manages the fund in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. As pointed out by the Committee, the National Audit Office’s audit includes the Ministry of Finance’s management, management and control of SPN and SPU. The supervisory regime of the central bank law in relation to the bank is the Board of Directors’ own supervisory body, the Norwegian Bank’s representative body, which continuously supervises the operation of the bank in accordance with the rules laid down by the Ministry of Finance. Both the Ministry and the two administrators, Norway’s Bank and the Folketry Fund, are constantly working on further development of follow-up, supervision and control. This is absolutely necessary to ensure that what we do has broad confidence in the population. A number of measures have been taken in recent years to strengthen the supervision of the management of State pension funds by both the administrators, the ministry and the Stortinget. But we can't stop here. The view of best practice in this area is still evolving, and what was good yesterday is not necessarily good enough tomorrow. An important measure is the strengthening of the Bank’s representation. The Bank is now audited by an externally appointed auditor and its representation has been strengthened by its own supervisory unit. This will improve the capacity of the representation to perform its principal task and to supervise the operation of the bank in accordance with the legislation, including the legislation provided for by the Ministry for Foreign Pensions of the State Pension Fund. I would like to make a proposal later on to the European Parliament on new rules on the reporting of representation. There I will add to a comprehensive, direct reporting to Stortinget, and I think this will make the control of the fund more visible than today. Another important work is the Ministry's design of new comprehensive rules for SPU. In the context of the soon-to-be-present notification of the fund, the Stortinge will be given the opportunity to decide on a reasonable level of detail in the legislation. So to the issues that the committee deals with. The Committee is critical that there has been no general or other framework for the comprehensive lending of securities in Norway’s Bank Investment Management, NBIM. Loaning securities will be a natural part of the business of a major AIFM. It is true that there has been no explicit regulation of this by the Ministry, but that does not mean that the business has not been subject to any regulations. For example: the receipt of cash collateral is subject to counterparty risk management requirements. If this security is reinvested, the general provisions on investment in the guidelines will apply. The Committee questions whether the Storting has been adequately informed about SPU’s lending. The securities lending in the SPU are presented in the annual accounts of the Bank of Norway, as provided for by the Representation. I also want to refer to the government accounts, which are presented to the Stortinge each of us, where in the last few years it has been included in the statement of financial position of the SPU where the individual debt items appear. I would also like to address the issue of the regulation of lending in the annual notice that I will present to Stortinget in a moment. The Committee notes that measures have now been taken to strengthen control of external management but finds it critical that it has taken so long to put control procedures in place. Here I would like to point out that external management has been subject to extensive control, but that in the light of its experience the Bank has further strengthened its control systems. I assume that the representation follows up the management of the SPU in accordance with the requirements set out in the Ministry's legislation. The Committee assumes that the Ministry gives priority to ensuring that the quality of the Fund's accounts meets international standards. Last year the capital increase decided that Norway’s Bank should be subject to the Accounting Act. The Ministry is currently working on a separate accounting regulation on the Bank of Norway. Finally, we will have ample opportunity to discuss both issues that are being raised today and other issues relating to the management of the SPU in the context of the communication submitted to the Stortinget in a short time. I look forward to that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e196	I was in my post about the fact that the Ministry of Finance in St.meld. No 1 for 2008-2009, National Budget, page 124, Box 5.3 writes that ‘the fund’s capital is fully self-financed’. At the end of 2008, the debt burden in the fund was NOK 234 billion, as far as I have been able to bring it to me. How do these two things relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e201	If we look a little bit into the notice on the management of the State pension fund in 2008, St.meld. No 20 for 2008-2009, on page 43, it says: ‘The capital of the fund is fully equity-funded. It is understood that the State has not borrowed money to provide the fund with capital. The fund is less likely to carry out large withdrawals over a short period of time.» What's the main point here is that the fund is fully equity-funded. Contrary to e.g. other funds that may be heavily indebted, SPU will not have problems in the sense that the owner wants to take large amounts out and that do, for example, a fund has to sell itself into bad times to finance withdrawals from its owner. What is meant here is that the Ministry of Finance has not raised loans to finance the equity of the SPU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e211	It was the Council of State itself that raised a few questions as well, which went a little beyond the consideration of the audit report by the committee panel. I'm grateful for that in and for itself. I have to say that I am pleased that it is now being set up to strengthen the role of representation as a control body with reporting procedures directly to Stortinget. I assume that the administration of representation will then also be strengthened in such a way that they can fulfil this. It was an interesting question that the representative Lundtigen raised in his post. The right and left have also previously addressed the question of whether the Governing Council is also necessarily suitable to be in charge of the SPU. The Ministry of Finance then answers that in that case the SPU must be created as a separate unit. That's exactly what Lundteg took up as a representative of the government parties. I would like to ask the Council of State to further deepen its view on this issue, if this too will be addressed in the message coming to the Stortningen on'stupid time'.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e219	With regard to the role of representation, the representation is the body of the Storting, so I expect these issues will also be addressed in that context. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, a broad discussion will be given of the issue of the future organisation of the SPU and its various variants. So I'm trying to say that if one lubricates itself with a little bit of patience, one in this message will be able to read a lot about that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e226	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2406]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e246	A year ago, exactly, there was a brutal war in Sri Lanka that ended with the suppression of the Tamil tigers by the government forces. This was a war that cost thousands of people their lives, and that drove hundreds of thousands away. We were told about a humanitarian disaster where people lost everything they had, and how many were subjected to major abuse. On Storting there are many who have been, and who are, concerned about the situation in the country. I have looked a little bit into the archive and found that especially last year at this time there were many written and oral questions that were asked. It was then especially about the situation of the Tamils during the war that was then. It is very good that there is a great commitment here on the Storting, and I think therefore it is important that we also now, after the end of the war, discuss what will be important for the country in the future. Sri Lanka has a long and difficult history. Since its independence and to this day, there have been major concerns about the conflict between the majority of the country and the minorities, with a clear ethnic dimension. In particular, over the last 20 to 30 years, the conflict between the authorities and the Tamil tigers has affected the country. In all wars and conflicts, the civilian population is hit hard. In all wars and conflicts, we also experience that precisely those affected need to be seen by international society, and that international society contributes to providing civil protection. We see it in conflicts around the world, from the Palestinians to the Sahrawis in Western Sahara to the Tamils in Sri Lanka. In Norway, we have a committed Tamil environment that is concerned about the development of the country and is constantly afraid of how family and friends feel. Not least we saw it during the war a year ago. Norway has a very active policy with regard to the country, both by providing assistance and, in particular, with regard to the peace process that started at the end of the 1990s, where Norway was asked to play a role, and where a real hope of a peaceful and political solution was found. Despite many attempts to create lasting peace, the country ended in war in the autumn of 2008. A military solution was chosen instead of reconciliation and a negotiated solution. Some may generally believe that war is sometimes inevitable. But the problem with war is that it doesn't necessarily manage to solve the real conflict, which is why it breaks out war. One side or another can win, but it is ultimately just reconciliation and political solutions that can lead to lasting peace, as I see it. We also see in Sri Lanka that war does not eliminate the conflict. It's not like the ethnic divisions have become smaller after the war. They have, on the contrary, been reinforced. It's not that great losses of civil life just make it a little easier to come up with solutions. It creates deep wounds. So the question now, of course, is how the conflict in Sri Lanka is now developing in the future. On 26 January this year there was a presidential election. The sitting President Mahinda Rajapaksa was re-elected with clear margin, and he was elected for six years. It will be interesting to see if he takes some major initiatives to approach minorities and implement a reconciliation process. There is little evidence that he follows up the signals that he gave right after the end of the war. Today, about a hundred thousand internally displaced persons from the last war still sit in camps. There shall be a positive development in the situation of internally displaced persons, but there is obviously a long way to go. It is also a long way to go in terms of the humanitarian situation, in terms of freedom of expression and human rights in general. In addition, the suspicion of war crimes from the end of the war is hanging over the government, which they should obviously take an independent initiative to investigate and deal with. If they don't, I actually think the United Nations should take that task. Norway no longer plays a special role in any peace process. The fact that we had a military conflict, put an effective stop to it in many ways. The basis for the job we were asked to do was changed. The question now is: What should Norway do now? How should Norwegian involvement be directed, and what room for action do we have? Because it is quite obvious that we need to find a new role and approach. Norway has gained considerable knowledge of the country for a long time, and I believe that we need to use it constructively in the future. I also think it is important that Norway has a clear policy towards the country. We should be strong and clear if progress and positive things are made, but also clearly critical if we see things going in the wrong direction. Finally, it is often about being clear and critical of the internally displaced, the human rights situation and the humanitarian situation in general. Norway can also be a clear voice in the international forums if we see that the situation is not getting better, and we can be an active country there. But at the same time, I think we should also realize that Norway is a small country in the broad context. We can't move mountains alone. Now it may not be that Western actors are the most pervasive at the moment, and in that context it is also interesting to follow how the government of Sri Lanka is oriented towards other countries. It may seem as if they are more orientated towards the Asian major acts of relations, both in terms of cooperation and assistance. Japan is, for example, the largest bilateral contributor. China is part of many aid and infrastructure projects. It has also developed good relations with Pakistan, which may not be entirely unproblematic about the relationship it has had with India for a long time. It will be interesting to follow that development further. Another question I think it is important that we address here today is Norway's future role in aid. How do we want to use assistance to the country, and to what extent? This I think it is necessary that we talk about, not least because much of the resources we have spent on assistance have been tied up with the fact that we had a role to facilitate the peace process. What is important for citizens now is much about rebuilding and getting the internally displaced people returned and resettled. Norwegian aid should be seen in this context. In addition, we know that Sri Lanka has many challenges, because although they may be less dependent on assistance than many other countries, a quarter of the population lives below the poverty line, and the social divides are large and follow a clear ethnic dimension. This should also be an important backbone when assessing the situation in Sri Lanka and what Norway should do. As mentioned at the outset, we have an active environment among the Tamils in Norway. And since it became known that I was going to have this interpellation, many people have contacted me to come up with their views on the situation. What has been going on in the feedback is simply a continuing despair over the war that took place from the fall of 2008 until May last year, when they felt that the world community was failing, or perhaps more correctly that the world community did not understand what was really going on because the media and witnesses were denied access to the conflict area, and several of them also believe that because large parts of the world society might not have wanted to see what was going on. Here we see in many ways the classic contradiction of the international legal society between the obligations of an independent state towards its inhabitants and the desire of the international community to intervene. In addition, I get feedback that the humanitarian situation of many is still precarious, especially for those in the camps, and that they are impatient to resolve that situation. There are feedback we're going to take seriously. I also believe that, today and in the future, we should think through how we can even more fully involve the Tamil environment in the debate on the future of the country. I look forward to the answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to my interpellation, and I look forward – hopefully – to a good debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e285	I would like to thank the representative Hansen for a well-considered question about an important issue for Norwegian foreign policy. I want to take the opportunity to establish the status of Norwegian Sri Lanka policy after the Tamil tigers were defeated in the military last year. The dramatic months until 18 May last year resulted in large civilian losses, almost 300,000 internally displaced persons and a precarious humanitarian situation for large sections of the Tamil population. LTTE is today a negligible power factor in Sri Lanka. President Rajapaksa was re-elected with a clear margin of 26 January this year and is expected to remain in office for the next six years. His party will in all likelihood also receive a clear majority in the forthcoming parliamentary elections on 8 April. The Rajapaksa regime has thus been given a clear mandate to govern Sri Lanka. Ten months after the end of the war, a political solution has not drawn closer. The ethnic dividing lines have rather been reinforced by the large civil losses, the treatment of internal movements and the increased migration of single readers into areas previously dominated by minorities. The response of the Sri Lankan authorities to the national problem is likely to be economic development and reconstruction in the north and east, rather than efforts to achieve a policy solution acceptable to minorities. Let me make this clear: the starting point for our commitment to different peace processes has always been a desire to contribute if Norway can make a difference and our efforts are wanted by the parties. In this way, Norway could contribute to the efforts of the parties in Sri Lanka to achieve a political and peaceful solution, such as at the conclusion of the Armistice Agreement in 2002. Development then took a turn over in the decade. We made it clear that the parties were responsible for the results that could be achieved. They therefore had to take responsibility both for the upswings and for the downswings in the peace process. When the military logic took over completely, we could see that the peace process was in reality over. The reason for the role played by Norway from the late 1990s was no longer present in Sri Lanka. Thus, Norway has no specific role in the country today. The end of the military conflict also meant the end of ten years of Norwegian engagement to facilitate a negotiated solution. Our special role came about after enquiries both from the Sri Lankan government and from LTTE. The new political situation implies a shift in Norway’s approach, while our objective of contributing to a political solution in Sri Lanka is firm. When the government congratulated President Rajapaksa on the re-election on 26 January, we therefore expressed the hope that he would show the will to extend a hand to the minorities. We also assured him that if he does, he will be able to count on our support. The Sri Lankan authorities, for their part, have made it clear that they want to normalize their relationship with Norway and to view the peace process as a chapter. The outcome of the war and the views of the Sri Lankan authorities therefore have a political impact on Norway’s approach, both to the aid profile and to other resource use. Let me then concentrate on the approach to our Sri Lanka policy in the new situation where we see three main lines. Firstly, Sri Lanka will continue to have special attention in Norwegian foreign policy. The war has not solved the underlying political conflicts. It is important that Sri Lanka is encouraged to contribute to good solutions for all ethnic groups, both from us and from others. President Rajapaksa has so far made no use of the clear voter he got to reach out a hand to other ethnic groups. Evolution has gone so far in the opposite direction. The intervention of the authorities on the media has been tightened up. Journalists have been persecuted. The circumstances surrounding the arrest of opposition candidate Fonseca give signals of fear and intimidation rather than confidence and openness. Suspects of violations of humanitarian law and war crimes in the final phase of the war are perhaps the Sri Lankan authorities most concerned. From the Norwegian side, we have made it clear that we want information on what happened to come forward, and that we will support any review under the auspices of the UN if the authorities themselves do not take credible action and initiatives in this direction. Norway will serve to normalise its political relations with Sri Lankan authorities. Sri Lanka has long democratic traditions, strong institutions and an elite who are largely educated in and closely linked to the West. It is therefore not desirable to isolate Sri Lanka. Both critical dialogue with the authorities and our critical voice in public space will therefore continue from the Norwegian side. Norwegian UD and a number of other environments have gained deep knowledge about Sri Lanka. Of course, we want this knowledge and commitment to peace and reconciliation to be applied positively. We will maintain contact and support for Tamil environments and organisations both in Norway and in other countries. The Tamils shall not experience that Norway’s involvement with the Tamil population is over. Many Tamils in Norway, on which the interpellant was involved, want to help their relatives and communities, and Norway will continue to play a part in this. At the same time, we must call on the Tamil communities to work democratically and to state all attempts to resume the armed struggle. We will support the efforts of Sri Lanka to become an inclusive country with minority rights and increased autonomy for the Tamils, within the framework of the state of Sri Lanka. Secondly — my second main track — it is important to carefully assess what Norway can actually contribute to in Sri Lanka given the political situation now. It is natural that the level of our overall assistance is reduced as a result of Norway’s no longer having a separate role. This has to happen gradually. Of course, we will not run from something we have taken responsibility for over a year. The main challenges remain in the humanitarian field. The representative Hansen points to the positive development in the return of internally displaced persons. We have recognised the Sri Lankan government for the positive steps taken in November to December last year in the direction of resettlement and greater freedom of movement for refugees. About two thirds of the originally almost 300,000 internally displaced persons in closed camps have now been released or returned. At the same time, we saw that development slowed down when the election campaign went to the end. Under 100,000 people are still in camps. The government's promise to empty the camps by 31 January was not kept. A particular concern is that many LTTE members are in closed camps without access. There are also major challenges to resettlement and rehabilitation. As a result of the war, in 2009 Norway's humanitarian aid amounted to a total of 94 million. kr, which was a double relative to the level planned. This placed Norway among the five largest donors of this type of assistance for Sri Lanka. For the current year, it's added up to 35 million. DKK in humanitarian aid and 24.2 million. kr in transitional assistance. The immediate needs associated with the return and resettlement of internally displaced persons in the north and east will continue to be significant. The funds are therefore earmarked for reconstruction, resettlement, rehabilitation and mine clearance in the north and east. Norway will contribute through Norwegian, international and local relief organisations. At the same time, we will continue to work with other countries to improve access to these assisted areas. Given the status of Sri Lanka as an intermediate country, the longer-term assistance will be gradually changed and reduced. The funds that have been specifically linked to Norway’s role in facilitating the peace process will be phased out. Thirdly, we will reduce the human resources we have spent on our involvement in Sri Lanka. The extra resources allocated to the Colombo Embassy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deal with the peace process are no longer necessary. The staff at the embassy will be reduced by two posts from the autumn of 2010. In the Ministry, the post of Special Envoy for Sri Lanka was phased out in the spring of 2009, and the team that managed the peace process in the Ministry will move from the autumn to a preparedness unit. Finally, I would like to mention that we have taken the initiative in an external, independent evaluation of the peace process and the role of Norway. This task will be put on international tender during the spring. The aim of the evaluation will be to accumulate generalised knowledge on how Norway can play a role in peace processes, based on the specific experience of Sri Lanka. It shall also contribute to the academic debate on international contributions to conflict resolution and provide a politically neutral assessment of the Norwegian role in Sri Lanka – for the present and for the future. And it follows from previous debates we have had in this room on Norway's peace exposures that we should also be thorough in the evaluation phase in order to learn for future efforts. I look forward to the evaluation and to the debate that will follow, and hope they will interest a wider audience as well as give rise to discussion and reflection – both on the Sri Lanka experience and on Norwegian engagement policy in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e340	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and very thorough answer, and I would like to say that I share his views that it is important for Norway to continue to have a special look at Sri Lanka. With the story that we have, both in terms of what I said in my post on gathering great knowledge, and in terms of the fact that there is a great deal of commitment, it is important that we still have a pressure on the conflict, although there may be a need to discuss the device itself on the commitment. I am also pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is so clear that it would be natural for Norway to support a possible investigation by the United Nations in view of what happened in the final phase of the war, and the suspicions that exist regarding violations of humanitarian law and war crimes, unless the Government of Sri Lanka itself addresses the matter and submits to a credible review and review of what happened. There may be things that indicate that there won't be so much happening from that edge in the near future, and then I think it's important that the UN seizes. This should be a measure for Norway. In addition, in general, I believe that it is necessary that someone from the outside contribute to writing the story of what is happening in war, because it is about credibility and not least about creating legitimacy among those who were attacked. It's important to get reconciliation. There is no doubt that the Tamil minority is aware that there was an infringement, and then the world community must take it seriously and help to discover what was actually happening. In terms of assistance, I share the Foreign Minister's input, that it would be natural to change its volume in relation to changes in Norwegian involvement, but at the same time I would like to stress that it is important that we continue to contribute where we can achieve results, and then with a particular focus on the reconstruction and resettlement of internally displaced persons. In addition, we should perhaps also look towards projects that can help build bridges between the different groups in the country. I also like the signal that Norway will continue to work with other countries to improve access for relief organisations. They do a brilliant job in many countries, and it is absolutely vital that they do their job, that they actually get access to the areas where the help is needed, and reach out to the people who depend on it. Finally, I would like to touch on the latest issue raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely the importance of a debate on Norwegian engagement policy in general. I think it is wise that we take an evaluation of the peace process and the role of Norway in Sri Lanka. I think it can help us to understand how Norway can actually play a role in peace processes in the future, and that we can use the concrete experience we gained in Sri Lanka in a good way for our overall commitment. So again, thank you for the answer!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e357	I want to start this answer by saying that what impresses us all, I think, engaged in Norwegian politics, is the commitment of Tamils in Norway that we meet in the workplace, in the streets, in political parties, in civil society. There is a hardworking group in our country that we have reason to appreciate very much as citizens. And it's clear that the dramatic messages we got from family members who had messages on their mobile in the form of pictures and text about what happened to the family back in Sri Lanka have made an impression on us through the phases of the war. It brought the horror of war very close to us. So I want to stress that continuing to have contact with and open channels and listening ears to these environments will be important to us in the U.D. and, I think, throughout the political system. My post stated that we are at a crossroads in the modern relationship with Sri Lanka. A period of Norwegian involvement is evident above, and it illustrates that when Norway engages in this kind of peace and reconciliation process, engagement policy, it is also responsible for engaging in a responsibility to be able to say that a process comes to an end – not because Norway did not choose the final phase of the peace process, but because the parties chose a different path. I have thought it has been important for Norway since 1997 that there has been a cross-political consensus on this commitment. It is such that four foreign ministers from three parties have been responsible for this process, and it has been said in the past that the ability to stand in such exposures over time is some of what enables Norway to be engaged in such processes. That interpellant also takes up its post now, is that even though we recognize the end of a peace process that's over, that doesn't mean that the involvement of the people of Sri Lanka is over. Therefore, I can assure you that both an aid exposure and a wake-up voice on the unresolved issues, because even if the war is over, the underlying issues are not solved. It is a society facing major challenges that we will have to follow closely in the future. I can also assure the representative Hansen that Norway will support an investigation into issues of violation of humanitarian law. We looked at Sri Lanka, as we have seen in other conflicts in modern warfare, a very alarming feature: that the eyes and ears of international society are shut out in the final phase. We saw it in the Gaza War, we saw it in Sri Lanka and in other cases. This cannot lead to the release of those responsible for warfare from the responsibilities of humanitarian law, the Geneva Conventions, etc. So this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be We want a continued commitment to Sri Lanka, a continued commitment where we're going to draw on the great knowledge base we have, but also a willingness and ability to declare and acknowledge that a long period of a very special effort has gone to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e370	Now when we look back, we look back at Norway's commitment as an organizer, which now after ten years is over, and we haven't got a negotiated solution. It is very natural — and I think we should give credit to the interpellant to address this issue — when Norway has been so strongly and deeply involved in this matter over such a long period of time, that we are now taking a summary of the way forward. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has now answered these three points in an excellent way on which direction we should go, and I also think that this should be a broad political majority. It is also natural now, after such a long time, to take a summary of whether the human resources and our aid policies will change, and they should. Our involvement has been strongly linked to peace negotiations and the peace process. That time there were two parties, while now there's only one party we have to deal with. Now, when we sum up, ten months after the end of the war, we must also say that a political solution is not so much closer. There are still large ethnic dividing lines, and they have rather been reinforced by the large civil losses and treatment of internal refugees, etc. We also see that the authorities in the country have now again blackened that economic developments are likely to occur in certain areas of the country where they have more support. This is not acceptable to minorities. When we notice what the new president has said — a well-known political figure in Sri Lanka over a long period of time — we must say in retrospect that he has not just stretched out his hand to the minorities. If he does, and there is an approach in that direction, we must also stand behind it and support it – the Minister of Foreign Affairs made it quite clear. But I must also stress that proper behavior in the broad sense is to be rewarded. That is what we have to do on the Norwegian side: if the new political regime behaves properly in relation to this, it must also be rewarded. It is also clear that those authorities that still want a good relationship with Norway. It is important that both we and others through different channels now encourage Sri Lanka to provide good solutions for all ethnic groups. Norway will also benefit from normalisation in relation to the Sri Lankan authorities. With regard to the Tamil environment in Norway, the Tamil organisations in Norway and in other countries, it is important that we support them. I myself come from Stavanger, and there we have a strong and solid environment. I have to say that I am impressed by these environments and how they support their brothers and sisters in the home country, and their strong commitment and efforts after the major flood disaster in December 2004 were touching. They showed a tremendously great commitment, they transferred a lot of funds, they were involved in building houses, and there's a lot of respect for it. They are also very much involved in building Norway. So I think we have strong moral and ethical obligations here. Norway must not be experienced in such a way that we fail them. But as I said, it's important that we now take this summary. If we look at the assistance we've given to Sri Lanka, in 2009, it was a total of 94 million. kr, and there was a double in relation to the level envisaged. We also add up to large transfers now, approx. 60 million. kr. As far as these funds are concerned, it is also important that we engage in good dialogue and make demands. The funds should be earmarked to the greatest extent for reconstruction, resettlement, rehabilitation and mine clearance in both the north and the south. That is how we build a good society with a good infrastructure, so that these people can live in peace and deportability even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e385	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Norway has long been involved in the peace process in Sri Lanka, but has no specific role now after the conflict has reached a military solution in the form of victories for the government forces last year. However, the Progress Party notes that there are actors, both nationally and internationally, who believe that we should continue to play a role in Sri Lanka. In this context, the order is important. We have to ask ourselves if we have something to do in Sri Lanka, and then to engage constructively, instead of getting involved first and then asking what role we can play. According to the UN, the civil loss figures in the war were over 7 000 in the first four months of 2009. Several international human rights organisations claim that this figure is significantly higher. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navi Pillay, stressed that both the LTTE and the government forces committed ‘great violations of international humanitarian rules’. The Progress Party was therefore disappointed that the UN Human Rights Council was unable to agree on a resolution that highlighted both sides ’ abuses, but that instead Sri Lanka received support from China, India, and Pakistan in unilateral support for the government. This makes visible the general limitations of the activities of the UN Human Rights Council, where political regimes which commit abuses are often protected by similar regimes. President Rajapakse's signal that the country does not want a UN-led panel of experts to investigate human rights violations is also not a step towards reconciliation. The international community must exert pressure on the government of Colombo to ensure that the rights of the Tamil population are respected. At the same time, it is important to contribute to the reintegration of former militant groups into society and to their constructive contribution to reconstruction. The Tamils must understand that the path to political influence is going through the ballot box, and not through violent acts and terror. The long-term objective must be to achieve a reconciliation process between population groups. Here we can draw on the experience of transitional justice from a number of countries. So what can we learn from our own role in the peace negotiations and from the final outcome of the conflict in Sri Lanka? The term humanitarian force has been used to describe Norway’s engagement policy, where we are involved in a number of peace negotiations, and in 2008 aid was given to 110 countries. The Progress Party has called for a fundamental debate on both the mandates and the results of Norway's attempts over many years to play the role of humanitarian force, with sometimes varying results. In the future of development policy engagement in Sri Lanka, Norwegians must always use the channels of assistance that provide the most for the money and where the aid comes to those who need it. When a country is rebuilt after war, it is both the giver and the recipient's responsibility to make sure that aid does not go astray or become involved in default and corruption. Sri Lanka has significant challenges in this area, such as: are made visible in the 2009 report of the Anti-corruption Organisation Transparency International.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e404	Sri Lanka has a proud history, and it will also have a proud future. But that future is built through cooperation between the parties. Although a military solution was now found in the situation, it is very important to be able to build bridges between Sri Lankans and Tamils. Sri Lanka can no longer remain divided, but must be an economic power in the region, capable not only of building up prosperity for its own inhabitants, but also a political system against which the region can run. The election that took place in Sri Lanka led to the victory of the seated President Rajapakse, but this can be clearly questioned. Among other things, the role of the media in the election is not what we would have defined as a democratic use of the media – one of many examples. But it is nevertheless worth saying, from the Norwegian side, that there was strong support for the President-in-Office. Clearly, it is natural when a military conflict has been won. On our side, we need to do what we can to support democracy in Sri Lanka, to help build social institutions and democratic institutions. We must also be very clear – and I want to be here – that we are lucky in Norway, which has a large environment from Sri Lanka, mainly Tamils. These are people who are well integrated, who do a great job for the Norwegian community, and we appreciate it very much. But back to the situation on the island: there are several things I want to draw out. Firstly, I believe that the UN must play an even clearer role in terms of documentation and observation of the continuing violations of human rights taking place. An internationally recognised history of what has actually taken place - throughout the conflict, but also the cause of the conflict - must be put in place. Secondly, there are problems in coordinating aid, emergency aid and other development programmes. I believe that this needs to be put in place, either by means of the UN or by others who are able to coordinate it better than today. Third, the camps have to be laid down. The barbed wire must be removed. Those at the base of 100,000 people currently in concentration camps must be released. Like the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I think it is worth recalling the positive features that took place for the approximately 300,000 people who were in these camps and who were internally displaced before the election campaign began. But in the final phase of the election campaign, there was a narrowing, and that narrowing still has to do. It's completely unnecessary. Of course, it should be stated that errors and infringements of both national and international laws and regulations are to be punished afterwards. This applies to both parties. But the clear breach that is now taking place by keeping so many people in concentration camps is a clear violation of international law and human rights. So I would say that Norway is a friend of Sri Lanka. We will continue to be. We have, as I said, a strong responsibility to participate in the development of democracy in relation to the reconciliation work, in relation to economic development, and we need to see a fight against poverty across the island. I believe that it is directly crazy national policy that is now being seen by Rajapakse – that you want to move Sri Lankans to the Tamil territories, and in that way you can contribute to economic growth. In fact, you also need to focus on increasing Tamil autonomy. I would also like to say that the diaspora has a clear responsibility to contribute to stability and tranquillity. It can't be that the diaspora is still going up. The conflict has had a final outcome – unfortunately a military outcome – but now the path is open to democracy and reconciliation, and that responsibility must be taken by the diaspora.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e423	There is a bleak tendency for the majority of multiethnic societies to like to decide what is right and right culture, language, life patterns, religion, etc. There are, unfortunately, too many ugly examples of that. Often they don't hesitate to use power and weapons in this fight either. Rwanda and the Balkans are two ugly examples of this in the last two decades. This cannot continue. We had hoped that the world community would learn some of these two events, and that they would put an effective stop to similar human slaughter later on. It was therefore despairing to learn that the world was paralyzed when the government army defeated the Tamil tigers last year on the Sri Lankan island. Civilians were brutally beaten down with armed rebels. People were denied refuge in safe areas and were denied water, food and medicine. The media were denied access to what was going on in the operating areas. There was something that couldn't bear the light of the day. Humanitarian organisations were denied access to people in need of assistance. The need was great. All this happened while the world was almost paralyzed. The army of Sri Lanka got free hands. This cannot be repeated. The world has to learn something from this last human leach. We in SV were very concerned about what was going to happen after this military operation. We feared that there would be no humane, red and democratic integration process in Sri Lanka. Unfortunately, we have got it right. The Tamils are denied the right to move freely in their own country. They have been deprived of their citizens' rights in their own country. There are no plans to grant them linguistic, cultural and political rights – on the contrary. It's alarming, because it's the rebels who have been defeated, not the causes of the uprising. There are still minorities in Sri Lanka and they have their legitimate rights. These must be respected, recognized and realised. Sri Lanka is not a planet in space isolated from the world community – Sri Lanka is part of the world community. They must live up to the obligations of civilisation. We must now demand that the Tamils and other minorities – we know that Muslims on the island too have difficulty – have their rights realised. The second thing we have to demand is that independent bodies investigate the allegations of war crimes. As the uprising was repressed, it is very likely that it was committed against civilians by all parties. It is important that the guilty be punished. It will give the victims a measure of upliftment. This will also, hopefully, prevent similar abuses elsewhere in the future. Norway is an important player in this conflict. We must press for the integration process to be set in motion as soon as possible, and for the rapid investigation of war crimes to take place. I am therefore very pleased with the line taken by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He has our full support. We are, in fact, more impatient than one in diplomatic circles might afford to be, but civilians who are denied their fundamental rights in Sri Lanka cannot afford to wait. This is where you have to press.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e444	Thank you to the interpellant for the initiative for this debate, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his realistic but at the same time constructive answers. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we share this basic attitude – realism about the role of Norway, but our willingness to help. For many years Norway and Sri Lanka have had a significant interface between their peoples. These links have been linked through aid, through trade and tourism, but also by the fact that so many Tamils from Sri Lanka have come to Norway. The interface of aid cooperation contributed to Norway’s role in facilitating the peace process between the Government of Sri Lanka and LTTE. We had that role in the period from 2000 until the military logic gradually needed the peace efforts aside around 2006. This led to the termination of the truce agreement negotiated with Norwegian aid in 2002 in 2008. The end of the peace process thus became clear to everyone. One year later, the civil war in Sri Lanka entered its bloody and tragic closing phase. The war cost thousands of lives. It was not just something that affected the Tamil diaspora of about 12,000 people here in the country. It touched and affected us all. The war between the Tamil tigers and the government forces has ended militarily. But there remains to be a political solution to the long-standing conflict in Sri Lanka. From the Christian People's Party we have consistently stressed that the end of the war must be the beginning of a reconciliation and an inclusive reconstruction of society in Sri Lanka. So what is the key to a peaceful future for the ethnic groups in this tried country? I am convinced that it is creating reconciliation, mutual understanding and respect between the ethnic groups. But throughout the year that has passed, we have experienced steady disappointments about our expectations and our hopes. The humanitarian situation is problematic. It is positive that most of the Tamils have finally come out of the refugee camps, but there are still too many tens of thousands left. Resettlement and reconstruction in the north is a challenge. The situation of human rights has improved in some areas since the end of the war, but much remains. The media are still under pressure, while in practice there is impunity for the practitioners of the apparatus, and the government does not show the willingness to find the truth about conflict-related violations of human rights, which many believe is due to the frequent involvement of the military or government. The presidential election ended with the re-election of Rajapakse by a clear majority, but the outcome is contested, and the counter-candidate, General Fonseca, is under arrest. So far, the possibilities after the end of the war are not used as they should. It's disappointing. In a few weeks' time, on 8 April, Sri Lanka will have parliamentary elections. It is likely to give victory to the government parties. When the choice is over, a new phase occurs. Then we must encourage the parties to seek reconciliation and find a political solution. We can't do the job for them – they have to do this on their own. Peace and the future must be built by Sri Lanka's own inhabitants. But when they take that responsibility themselves, we and the world community must give them all the support we can. We can give you some help. We can strengthen trade and investment. In this way, we can contribute to economic and social progress, to increased hope for the future and to believe that the way of peace is the solution. Sri Lanka's population has suffered enough from war and conflict. Now they deserve something better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e475	I thank the interpellant Eva Kristin Hansen for addressing such an important issue. I am very pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is fresh again and can be here and give us open and reflected answers, and not least I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the efforts they have shown to bring peace to Sri Lanka. Sri Lankans in Norway — with any ethnic background — have naturally been very concerned about the situation in their home country. No one can be unaffected by the humanitarian disaster, the enormous suffering that the war brought, and not least the massive repression that the weaker and vulnerable party experienced and continues to experience. The left is pleased with the evaluation of Norway's role, and I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's view on how the Minister for Foreign Affairs considers Norway's role until now. There have been criticisms, there have been critical voices about Norway's role, and I would like to hear the views of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the role of Norway and what strategic mistakes we might have made. The government of the Left raised in April 2009 the question of investigating possible war crimes in Sri Lanka. We welcome the fact that the Norwegian Government is asking the UN Security Council to refer the situation in Sri Lanka to the ICC's Office for the Investigation of Possible War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity. I am impressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs' in-depth knowledge of the ethnic conflicts and underlying cultural disruptions in Sri Lanka. As the conflicts are unresolved, I would like to hear the Foreign Minister’s view on how Norway can contribute to building bridges across ethnic dividing lines, how Norway can contribute to ensuring long-term peace and human rights can be safeguarded in the current situation of Sri Lanka – and to move into it. The left is concerned about the internally displaced refugees and the hundreds of thousands who are imprisoned in the camp, and the discrimination that ethnic divisions create. I hoped that the Foreign Minister would share his view on how Norway is ready to help the internally displaced refugees and the around hundreds of thousands who have been imprisoned, and whether Norway now has the necessary confidence in all groups in Sri Lanka to continue the commitment that Norway has shown in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e490	I'm not going to bother taking a very good summary of the debate, because it's not that simple, but I want to comment on some of the comments. I would first like to say that I am very pleased that the parties took the floor in this debate, because it is important for the future that we still have a great commitment to Sri Lanka. There's a lot of agreement in this room. The representative of Nordtun, from my own party, noted that the political solution has not come closer, and that it is important that we find a political solution. I think most people in this room have realized that it is absolutely essential to be able to achieve a sustainable political solution for the future. But it is also important to stress the great responsibilities of the Sri Lankan authorities to manage this, and then the international community must be important monitors in this regard. The representative Liljeroth of the Progress Party noted that it was important to see that there had been serious violations of human rights on both sides. I think it's important in any conflict that you have an alert look at what's actually happening, and that therefore it's important that you always check out what's going on in a war. I think it's necessary to make progress, and for a country to be able to move on after a war. What the same representative also took up was Norway as a humanitarian act. This is a tumultuous concept that can often be used about the role of Norway. But I think it is important that Norway, as a small independent country, uses the role we have in international forums to talk to other countries about the weakest parties. I believe that is an important part of the fundamental debate on our engagement policy on the role that Norway should play, and that we have self-confidence as to where we can actually make a difference. I think that should be the key element of development policy and in our foreign policy. Then it was noted that aid is on the way. I am concerned that we should have the quality of the assistance, and that the funds should reach those who should actually be recipients of it. That's why I'm glad the Government has such a big focus on, for example. quality of assistance and anti-corruption work. I think it is absolutely vital for the trust of the Norwegian people that we use aid in a good way. The representative of Gitmark was concerned with the role of the media in the elections. I think one of the big problems in the country today is that you're messing with freedom of speech, and that the media is very upset. We need to keep focusing on that. In addition, he addressed it with assistance, that it is important that we coordinate the use of aid – fully agreeing on it. The representative Chaudhry was concerned that it was doubtful to see that the world community was paralyzed during the war. It is also the feedback I often get – that the world community was paralyzed during the war. I think it is important that we now have an investigation and an investigation in place, and that the United Nations takes the initiative, and Norway is important in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e510	First, I want to thank the interpellant. This is an example that an interpellation can really be useful for setting the line and giving us a starting point for the way forward, and I want to thank you for the posts that came from the different parties. To the representative of Raja, I can say that even for a foreign minister who is a hundred percent healthy – and that is not the case today – three minutes will not be enough to answer the very comprehensive questions he is asking. I was interested in much of that in my answer. It is not possible for me to stand here and give an assessment of any strategic errors when we have invited to an evaluation. The reason for an evaluation is to give confidence to learn from a great commitment over many years, and I think that's the starting point there to be. But I would say there are many examples that the road to peace had bright opportunities in Sri Lanka. The Armistice Agreement concluded in 2002 has been evaluated by some to have saved 10,000 lives. That the parties in Sri Lanka -- this is my personal opinion -- gave off an opportunity to build lasting peace without war by solving the underlying problems, I feel like I'm the judge of history, but we'll see about that. The representative also asks questions about Norway’s further ability to contribute to reconciliation across ethnic dividing lines. In my speech, I tried to say that we have come to a distinction in the role of Norway, and we are going to define a new role, as a committed, active country that cares about Sri Lanka. I believe that I tried to distance myself after only a few months as Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is because I do not like the concept of ‘power’ and believe that Norway should not seek to be associated with it. But an active humanitarian trading country with room and opportunity for engagement, it will be Norway, and we will also recognise that. Otherwise I think the representative of Chaudhry said it very wisely: the rebels were defeated, but not the reasons for the uprising. I guess that's what's bothering us that's following Sri Lanka. Well the weapons have spoken and in many ways solved and ended a situation, but the underlying problems are still there. It is no good to say that someone was right and someone was wrong. The question is, what's going to happen in the future, and what possibilities are now being used when the weapons are all tens? It's positive. But with 100,000 people in camps, many not properly reintegrated, and still deep tensions between minorities, there is every reason to be concerned about the future in Sri Lanka. Like all other conflicts in the world, this conflict is not only local either, because all conflicts have major international ringing effects. We can see that when we visit Norwegian communities where there are people who have had that conflict closely. I think I can sum up that Sri Lanka will still be a committed area for Norwegian foreign policy. We have a lot of knowledge, we have voluntary organisations and active civil society exposure. But we also recognise that a role has been delegated. We're not going to have nostalgia in relation to that. But we're going to use our position and our knowledge for the best for the people who live there and peace and stability in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e525	As the President wishes the Foreign Minister to continue to improve well, we have concluded the debate on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e539	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e548	Again, Stortinget has a debate on the situation in child protection, a very important debate, which we had last week. We were a little bit into it yesterday, and we have it left today. But it's a very important topic, and it's time for the Storting to do something about the crisis in child protection. I would like to congratulate the proposers for a proposal for a tightening-up plan in the field of child protection. I would say that child protection has suffered quite a lot in recent years, and it has probably not been a real effort on child protection since Matz Sandman was Minister for Children and Family Affairs. There are many important proposals under consideration here today, and there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee. The Committee stresses the importance of having child protection that always works and does the job they are to do. We are talking here about children in great need, who are being betrayed by their closest, and who need us to have a child protection that has enough resources and capacity to care for them. That is clearly not the case in today's situation in the field of child protection. In VG today, there is a chronicle, «Lights with Lightbaken?». Yes, let's hope it gets lighter in the Child Protection with the Light Hill, because now there are quite a number of government councillors from this government who have tried this without it having become quite the big changes. The Council of State has also accused the opposition of not making any concrete proposals in the area of child protection, but there are today proposals for concrete measures that we believe can help to correct the distribution of resources and the crisis in child protection. There was also an article in a newspaper today about the year of poverty. In this context, the opposition promotes many proposals to combat poverty, but as the government parties vote down because they are waiting for the Government to make concrete proposals. We have the impression that that is the case in this case as well. The government parties probably want to vote in favour of some of these proposals, but they are waiting for the government itself to make the proposals. So to the proposals that are available. It is municipal child protection and the first line service that meet those children who so badly need help. It is important that child protection is then able to take care of those children, whether it is to enter and help the family, or that there is a need to take care of them. We see too many child-restraints in municipal child-restraints, and that's not sustainable. We see that small municipalities are struggling with resource shortages; they are struggling with their lack of competence, and they are struggling with their failure to follow up the children who need it. In terms of prevention, we also see that this is almost entirely absent in many counties and municipalities. They don't have the resources and the capacity to do preventive work, and then it turns out they're running some kind of fire extinguisher. Child protection is, of course, the most important of all prevention. The government boasted that they would set up 400 new posts in municipal child protection. Yeah, we've seen that maybe it's up to three municipalities that's been doing this, and there's something the government needs to look at to get this in place. We can't have it the way we have it today. We also have a proposal for a State Children’s Protection Authority. You might use resources to oversee places that don't need it, because you know they work very well. It is important that the supervision does the job where it really needs to be done. I would like to give a little explanation of vote on this matter with the constituents. The Progress Party will support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, but we believe that the optimal thing will be that the county councils will be closed down and that this will be transferred to the courts. I should have had better time to go into all of these measures, but what's important is that we now have a child-restraint plan. The council also said yesterday that it is necessary approx. 1500 child protection posts. Yes, it remains to be seen when the 1500 jobs come, but I believe that before you go in and say that you should have 1500 jobs, we also need to have a control over the use of resources. We see that resources go to administration very many places instead of helping the children who need it. I would also like to deal with the case of lone minor asylum seekers. The government has not been able to follow up what they have said, that even lone minor asylum seekers from 15 to 18 years of age are going under child protection. It has a unanimous biging said, but it is not possible for the government to follow up, and it is very regrettable. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1 to 4 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e582	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e585	The working party considers it very serious that so many children in Norway need the help of child protection and that the number is increasing. The reasons for this are many and very complex, and no one has a complete solution to the big societal challenge it is. We are not satisfied with, but upset that those children who need our attention and assistance from child protection are not getting help in a timely manner. The members of the Committee have a sincere commitment to the protection of children. Only this week have we had child protection on the agenda almost every day. It's incredibly good, and it's going to give results to all the children who need and deserve our efforts and attention. On our trip to the South-Tronde Team, we again confirmed what we have heard from most of the other counties, that there is no good child protection in the municipalities. There are too few case handlers, and the skills are too poor in many municipalities in the country. The pressure on municipal child protection has increased sharply. The number of municipal child protection posts has not increased at all in line with the number of cases. Over the last four years, there has been a sharp increase in the level of government child protection funding. It is now the turn of municipal child protection. Measures in municipal child protection include several people with good competence. On several occasions, the Council of State has agreed, by letter to the Committee dated 17 December 2009, annexed to the case, and that cooperation between the various actors in the protection of children needs to be improved. There's not so many ways to interpret it. Child protection needs a complete review, and it must be high on the political agenda. In the 2010 budget, 400 new positions were added to municipal child protection, which we in the Workers' Party regard as a start-up package for further escalation, but per year. Today we do not have a full overview of how many jobs have been out there. The Labour Party has already said from this speaker that we are following this development with a really sharp look, and if it is not fulfilled, we will consider other instruments. It is close to believing that we then feel it is necessary to earmark money for municipal child protection, as the Christian People's Party actually asks in its proposal. There is no reason to believe that we very much disagree on this, but the opposition knows very well that the government's political action comes through the budgets. From the members of this Committee of the Workers' Party, the signals are quite clear: it is only political action that can help those children who do not receive the care every day that it should be a human right to have. We want action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e598	Like Gunn Olsen, I want to confirm the Committee's strong commitment to child protection, and I believe and hope that it will have a positive impact on child protection. There have been many public debates on the situation in the field of child protection in recent years. That's the good reason for that. There are stories of assault, there are stories of abuse and care failure, etc. We know that there are too many cases and too few case handlers, especially in municipal child protection. When these stories pass, it's easy to forget that there's a lot of work in child protection. I want to commend the efforts of those who work in this sector, those who are doing a wholehearted effort for some of the most disadvantaged children in Norway, and who are often exposed to threats and sword campaigns, perhaps especially on the Internet. One of the proposers, Laila Davøy, and the Bondevik II government introduced the use of child protection. When we see that tendering can be as short as two and three years, it is clear that there are economic principles underpinning the scheme, and not taking into account what is best for child-restraints. Tenders and markets are unsuitable as tools precisely because they put economic considerations ahead of human considerations. However, I would like to boast to the proposers in order to raise an important and correct debate. There can be no doubt that this is a policy area and an area that needs more attention, needs more review, needs more performance in the political environment, and needs more attention from politicians. Child protection needs to be strengthened. They need more staff, and they need more resources, but also reorganization and distortion from market to welfare. There are many good NPISHs that have an important complement to the public, but profit me and commercial businesses have nothing to do with child protection. Child protection is not a store.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e611	The development of child protection is very alarming. The right takes the situation seriously, and that is why we are open to considering the various proposals presented in the Stortinget. We cannot say no to considering proposals that come up, when at the same time every week we are witnessing messages that show how brutal and careless Norwegian child protection service can sometimes be. This is a commendable initiative of the Christian People's Party, for it is now that the Christian People's Party itself is calling for, absolutely necessary, to take action. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is so concerned about child protection. This is the other issue of child protection that we treat in Stortinget in a few days. It is also the other matter in a short time where the government parties vote down all the proposals that come into the Storting, which aim to strengthen and improve child protection. It's worrying. It is worrying that the government parties are voting down any good proposals that can help improve the serious situation in the area of child protection. The opposition is gathering around to intervene in the field of child protection. The Council of State said yesterday in the Chamber that the opposition did not agree with the measures and changes that needed to be made to the protection of children. That's wrong. The issue we are dealing with today shows once again that the parties on the civil side stand together and are willing to take action to change the situation. Therefore, it is a pity that the government parties are not willing to agree to take a closer look at the proposals of the Christian People's Party. In the hearing that we had in the committee, where very many from the child protection sector were present, there was full support for the Christian People's Party. I did not hear a single actor at the hearing that was opposed to this proposal. It is also the case that an overall level of child protection is clearly in place to strengthen the first-line service. The intentions of the Child Protection Reform were very good. So I'm a little worried when the Minister for Children and Family says that you want so much time, and that the most important thing is to evaluate, because you have to take the right steps. We know that there is already a Fafo report that makes clear conclusions. The Fafo report is clear that there are major cooperation problems, particularly between municipal and state child protection. We see that Bufetat is becoming very bureaucratic. It's a very resource-intensive organization. The bureaucracy there is about to move away from the children and create structures for the sake of the structure. Of course, the government knows what to do, but the government doesn't choose to do it. The opposition is aware of the need to strengthen municipal child protection, to shift power down, to move structures down against the children and to use resources to protect children instead of on child protection bureaucracy. The right considers that the overall responsibility for child protection at municipal level in a number of municipalities will provide better child protection. Trondheime municipality was granted a task differentiation test in connection with the state acquisition of the former county tasks within the child protection area. The municipality of Trondheim could show that over four years the test community had achieved very good results, both because the local politicians were much more involved, because there was a much greater commitment to child protection, and because it was accompanied by money. I hope that the Council of State in its work will look at the projects and measures that actually work, where we see results that provide better child protection. It's very bad that the government parties don't want to support these proposals. I can't say anything but that the government parties are taking good time. I don't know exactly what words I'm going to use, but they're at least equipped with a lot of ice in their stomachs when they can sit on the fence and observe the crisis in child protection without doing anything. Evaluation, evaluation and evaluation are the only answers we get from the Government, and that is a very bad thing. I am pleased that the proposal for the Christian People's Party is greatly uplifted by the opposition. At the same time, I want to promote the proposal that is made in the vote on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e632	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e635	It's positive that we have many opportunities to discuss child protection here in Stortinget. In recent years, we have seen a large increase in the number of child protection messages, and this presents us with great challenges both in terms of quality and economics, especially when we have not seen the same growth in the number of employees that we have seen in the number of child protection enquiries. Although government child protection has increased funding in recent years, municipal child protection in particular has a very high level of labour pressure and a very high level of responsibility. In the year's budget it was said that within the free resources of the municipalities there would be room for 400 new posts. We will follow this development very closely, for these signals will tell us something about how to move forward in the debate in order to get something done to strengthen municipal child protection. If you don't see that it's useful, you have to look at other tools. Recently, we have also seen more issues in the media that tell us something about the quality of child protection and the follow-up of child protection not being good enough everywhere. It shows that we have a very big task ahead of us in terms of how we can solve those challenges, especially with more small and vulnerable professional environments. An overall committee has also shown that intermunicipal cooperation will be very important for many, for the children, but also for those who work in child protection, so that they will be as good as possible in their job. For the Central Party, it is important that we continue to strengthen the competence of municipal child protection. High levels of competence are involved and ensure that we get good quality in the job being done, and we are assured that the best things for children are always the best that are put first. The centre party wants to move from this ‘repair bit’ to more prevention. It requires more resources, and it requires a lot of knowledge about how to work well with prevention. It is also important to say that there is a lot of good prevention and that there is a lot of good child protection in many municipalities. Then I have to say that when the opposition and representative Hofstad Helleland say that the government is sitting still, on the fence – they almost think it's just pinching their fingers, so this is arranged – it's a representation of the reality that I don't know completely in. The government has done a lot of good in the field of child protection, and we recognize that you have great challenges. The Council of State has signalled that he would like to take along the proposal on the plan of escalation and see how we will use it further to strengthen child protection. I believe that taking this proposal further, combined with an evaluation of the Child Protection Reform, will be very important in order to get a long way towards good child protection, with a high level of competence and quality across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e650	In this room we regularly deal with the different parts of what make up the welfare society of which we are so proud. In many of the different areas, we can refer and debate key messages, action plans, escalation plans, often also common goals and ambitions, where broad political consensus has provided a basis for the provision of different groups of people in need to be built up to a good standard. We have adopted the Roadmap for Mental Health, in the 1990s there was an agreement that all those in need of care at the institution should get exclusive, and we also agreed that everyone who wants should have kindergarten space for their children. In the welfare community, there will be constant struggle for attention and for the crowns. Different groups have different assumptions to claim in this fight. Common to many of the different groups that need the support of the political and welfare community is that they either have strong organisations in their backs or have relatives who speak in the media and in other channels. Children's protection are twice vulnerable, firstly because they're children, and secondly because it's just the care of relatives and their closest ones who've failed and that makes them in that situation. It's rare to see a torch for child protection. But that's exactly why it's all the more responsibility for us as politicians to raise the needs and raise this group and speak their case. At the hearing we also received a crystal clear message from all the organisations working in the field of child protection: The whole of Children's Protection Norway said a clear yes, we need a stepping-up plan for full child protection. 10 000 Facebook support players are probably also a signal that this is something that many people see that it is necessary. It's a babysitting trip. It is true that the number of issues in child protection has increased, and therefore the challenges are increasing, despite the fact that resources have actually escalated. But we can't settle down on that. In almost all stages, child protection has significant shortcomings. The first line service in the municipalities has been said a lot about this. The lack of foster homes is equally serious. It's a big paradox that we have babysitting for all children who need it, but we don't have home for all children who need it. In the case of institutional places, there may be a sufficient number of places, but the offer is not sufficiently differentiated, so that some children receive offers that are not adapted to their needs. The lack of supervisors for children in foster homes is also a threat to their legal security. Then one might say that in the case of supervisors and foster homes, we cannot decide that people should volunteer. That's right. However, there is a question of prioritising resources for offensive marketing and information on the one hand and framework conditions for economic and professional support on the other. It's possible to do a lot more, and it's possible to use those tools so offensively that you don't give up until we're in the goal and have full coverage, that is. enough foster homes, enough supervisors. It is therefore also a question of political will. Full child-resistance coverage means enough capacity at all stages. It is referred from the government parties to appreciate the proposal, to raise the debate, etc., and it is a positive reference to the rest of the proposal. Yes, it is nice to get a positive response to the proposal. But as representatives of big business, we also relate to what is actually written in the notes, and there is little to see in the comments of the government parties that says: What ambition do the government parties have in response to the proposal? It was said last week from the government parties that child protection is failing the children's protection. It is the Government that is responsible for child protection and therefore also responsible for it; it is the Government that is failing child protection. Is full child protection too high an ambition? Is it expensive? I want to turn it around: is there anyone in this room who might be familiar with having a lower ambition? We got full babysitting in 2009. We have notified about an elderly settlement full health care coverage in 2015. The question to the Government is, When are we going to get full child protection? I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e673	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e677	This is not the first child protection debate we have. We've had a lot of debates over the last few weeks on child protection. The characteristic is that they come largely as suggestions from the opposition. It was said here that the government is acting through budget. Yes, we certainly do. If you look through the Blue Book, there's not much government action lying there. It is basically a proposal from this room that lies there. I'm worried about the Child Protection Department. I believe in the good intentions, I believe that the Government is concerned that there are too few warnings from kindergartens and from other parts of Norwegian society. But I'm more concerned about the warnings that actually come in, and they don't do anything about it. It doesn't seem like the exposure is the same to do anything with it. I believe the government that they want to have a good child protection, but then we actually have to have action. Ibsen said, "The will is the one that counts, the will liberates or traps." It is good to be able to criticise other major reforms, and it is good to have been at the study circle in SU and learn that the market is bad and everything else is fine, but it is actually a matter of having to take some action. In fact, you have to take a few steps towards a field that is damaged in many areas. If you know the child protection area properly, you know what those institutions are, you know that the market you're talking about is very idealistic souls who for generations have built up institutions that have helped a lot of kids on the right path. That's what reality is out there. The distinction between idealism and volunteering and NPISHs and what is called the market here is quite fluid. I believe that there have now been so many good proposals that we would like to see the Government's proposal. What does the Government think is good suggestions in this field? When you look back – retrospectively – at politics led from this hall, all historical epochs have had their scandals that have come after. Souls in my lifetime – and I don't call myself a stone’s age – have been scandals within child protection that we didn’t think were possible. It's delinquency and neglect of kids that today comes out because people grow up. What scandals are we going to be convicted of not getting settled in? What don't we see, and we don't sort it out? What is this generation of parliamentarians not seeing in today's society? The problem is that in this field we see that something is wrong, we see that something has to be done, but we stick our head in the wall because someone won't do anything, because someone will evaluate, someone will figure out. But someone actually wants to do something. The Christian People's Party representative took on board, that we have a lot of offers that don't have proper supervision, I think we're going to be punished for not doing it properly. I just want to make a brief presentation on the Left's vote, because we are not represented in the Committee. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. One, of course, for proposal No. 2 and for proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We will not support proposal No. 4 and 6 but will support proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e699	The representative then explained the Left's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e702	I am pleased that there is a cross-political agreement to bet on child-restraint children. Let me make it very clear that it has a high priority for this government, and has had it since we took over in 2005. The proposal that has come from the representatives of the Christian People's Party, Håbreek, Syversen and Davøy, I believe is an important contribution to the development of child protection. Efforts are needed in all the areas proposed by the representatives. We cannot accept that children are subjected to care failure and abuse because the help fails. The responsibility we have for the most vulnerable children in our society is a responsibility that I know very badly, and that I take most seriously, and that I spend a lot of my time as a councillor. We know that there is a breach of treatment deadlines in child protection, there is a lack of statutory action and care plans, and there are children who are not being supervised. Matters are settled despite being serious, and too many children are not getting the right help. None of this is acceptable, and political action is necessary to do something about it. The government's aim is for children to succeed in school and education, in working life, and to have good health. In other words, they will have a good life and have the same opportunities as other children in this country. It requires a high level of professional protection for children, with sufficient capacity and quality at all stages. There are challenges in all these areas today, and I have started both a short-term and a longer-term work to meet the challenges and solve the problems. We know that the number of municipal child protection posts has not kept track of the growth in the number of cases. It means less time to work on some complex issues — in the worst case, there may be a threat to children’s legal security. The government has addressed this challenge by increasing the free revenues of municipalities for 2010 by SEK 4.2 billion. It provides room for the creation of 400 new posts in municipal child protection. I would like to stress that the municipalities themselves are responsible for assessing the manning situation and establishing several posts. I want to monitor carefully whether child protection is a priority in municipalities in 2010. It's too early to say what the result of the bet that was in the autumn budget is – I notice that some from the opposition have already concluded. I want to follow very closely how this is now developing. So we know that small municipalities are particularly vulnerable. That is why this government is very much in favour of inter-municipal cooperation on child protection, and I agree with the Committee that far more municipalities have to consider such solutions. I would also like to look at how the elected representatives can be more involved in decision-making processes related to child protection, both in the country and in the municipality, in order to contribute to the design of good local child protection. I think it can give increased commitment to child protection, for the benefit of the children involved. We have set in motion long-term cooperation with, among other things, Ministry of Education on the school results of children's protection. We are focusing on more cultural skills to help the growing number of children with a migrant background, and increased competence on mental and drug problems in children should also be given priority in the future. The Committee considers that legal and regulatory requirements for cross-border cooperation need to be clarified, and the Stortinget has recently adopted a provision on requirements for individual level for children in need of long-term, coordinated services. Then we will also follow up on proposals from two important public samples that have recently presented their settings. They have looked at how different services can work together to help the most vulnerable children, and how we can strengthen basic education in the field of child protection. Both of them will be very important to follow up on the future. Then, in the context of the concern that many have vented around the state child protection situation, a work has been started in Buffetat to improve resource use and improve professional governance in the establishment. There is now a programme to achieve this in the future, and its purpose is, among other things, to define more clearly what are state responsibilities in cooperation with municipalities. It's a process I have great faith in, and I think will contribute to a recovery. I have said that I should start an evaluation of the administrative reform. It's not because we need to evaluate rather than act, but because it's necessary to do both — both take hold in the short term and take the right structural measures in the long term. It's essential that we do it really. However, it should not, of course, stand in the way of implementing the measures needed in the short term – as we are now doing in Bufetat. That's why we're grabbing. We want child protection to help vulnerable children and solve the problems we are facing. It deserves the children's protection!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e731	The representative, Gina Knutson Barstad, who represents the same party as the Council of Lights, said that there might not have been any political prestige in talking about child protection. Now SV has got the Council of State – and I don't really doubt the involvement of the Council of State, I'm sure he's as concerned as many others about child protection – but I have the impression that this government, instead of taking concrete action, is just going to evaluate a lot of things. And while the government is thinking and evaluating, it's actually children who suffer, and who don't get the help they're legally entitled to. My specific question to the Council of State is – since he does not want to support the opposition's proposal to step up: When will the Government's plan to step up child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e738	I see that the opposition is having fun about this with evaluation, and let me just make it very clear: it's not at the expense of action! But it is necessary to be sure that the steps we take in child protection are taken in a reassuring way. The admission that the opposition has made to the debate recently, that so obviously no effort was made by the citizens' own efforts in the reform of child protection when they were in power, only makes me even more confident that we need to take action. So the government has said that we need to step up the staffing of municipal child protection to 1,500 new positions. Last year, we reported a timetable – to get it done – in the state budget until 2014. I'm standing by. We depend on the municipalities fulfilling their part of the job, that they spend the money allocated to this, on child protection. I'm now closely following if they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e745	On 25 November last year, the Council of State replied to the question on Question Time in Stortinget: ‘But let me just say that I am distanced from the concept of ‘crisis’ in child protection, because there is an incredible amount of positive in Norwegian child protection, and part of the strained resource situation is due to much more child protection enquiries than before – several concerns. It is also a symptom of a positive development.» We all agree that there is a lot of good going on in child protection. There is a lot of good child protection work done every day. But is it the case that the Council of State still believes that there is no crisis in today's child protection, or has the recent reports of newspaper headlines and concerns led to a slightly more nuanced picture of the child protection situation by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e755	There are people who believe that the task of a state council is always to defend the status quo in that state at all times. That's not what I'm looking at. I see it as my task to also point to things that are not good enough, and be open about it – and I am in the debate on child protection. That's why I choose to be honest about what I see in child protection, and to tell you whether things I think are serious and do not keep track of goals. At the same time, it is very important that we get – and then I believe that the quote from the representative is good and comprehensive – that many of the challenges we face are not due to the fact that child protection is doing a bad job. Something is even due to the fact that child protection does a better job than before. There will be more messages, more people have confidence in child protection. It also makes us discover greater numbers of darkness than before, more care failure than before, and the challenges of child protection are growing as it grows. Child protection deals with crises every day. For every child who doesn't get the help it should have, it's a very serious situation. But there's also a very good job in child protection, and we have to get both of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e764	I will also join those who do not doubt the good intentions of the Council of State. But the Council of State will be measured, as all other councils, and as his predecessors he will be measured on one thing, and that is action. And so far much suggests that the verdict of the Council of State Lights can be good intentions, but, unfortunately, too little action to meet the challenges he was set to meet. The Council of State refers to evaluations, the Council of State refers to assessments and reviews, and follows closely. Unfortunately, that is not enough. Regarding the reform of child protection, he warned that he would start an evaluation which, hopefully, would come back to the Storting toward the end of the period. So the question to the Council of State is: Will the Stortinge get a case, a message, reviewing the situation in child protection, and ambitious measures by the Government for full child protection and for meeting the challenges of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e771	The Storting has been presented with a number of cases in my time as a Council of State in order to achieve the objectives that, among other things, is outlined in this proposal, and I share it. It's a completely wrong image that things don't happen. In all the areas that the representative has addressed in his proposal, there are important things happening, on the one hand, as I have started, and on the other, as my predecessors have started. Now there's a campaign to recruit more foster homes. We're following up on the work of getting 400 new jobs, which is a measure and allocation that the entire opposition joined in the fall, without increasing resource use. We have the Bufetat improvement programme, which will ensure that we both get more consistent practices and control over the costs of national child protection. We have set up a new central unit for the population, which is now to ensure better coordination of resources and the sharing of competences. We've changed the law to strengthen post-protection, just to achieve the things the representative wants in his proposal. So here something is happening in all of the areas of Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e779	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e784	Norwegian society is full of press groups fighting for their cause. Of those who do not exercise such pressure on the authorities, children are child-restraints. We know that early intervention is important both in order to reduce damage and in order to avoid that the measures will become as dramatic as they sometimes become when problems get bigger. There are many bottlenecks in child protection, and the last thing I heard is that 734 children are waiting for foster homes. In other words, there is a shortage of foster homes. There might be different reasons for that. I ask, could this be due to a lack of information about what it means to be a foster parent? Is the scheme and follow-up offered to foster parents too poor? Being a foster parent is rewarding, demanding and can be weary. No children are the same, and often these families challenge when the child gets there. Biological parents can often also be a challenge when they want to be as much as possible with their child. It's not always that it works that what's best for the child is always true. Foetal parents may also face economic challenges. I don't think anyone takes on the task of being a foster parent to be rich. Many foster parents are idealists who take on important societal tasks. But the arrangements must function in such a way that those who enter into this important role do not lose out financially. Why do you lose pension credits on this work? Why is the taxing of the cost coverage per person paid. month, so much that you go into minus when the expenses are paid? Do we have a good enough guidance service? And finally, why is there such a difference between the state and the municipal systems? The questions are many, and the Christian People's Party believes there is much to be done about. There are challenges throughout the child protection chain. I think a lot of people might think they're foster parents, but then information, framework conditions and financial arrangements around the service must be so good that those who might think they're foster parents really come to service. Now we all have to take responsibility, take a real thank-you and provide enough resources for child protection. The bottlenecks of all joints must be removed. We can have no less ambitions than full child-resistance coverage, and we have to set clear targets for when this is to be fulfilled. It's a paradox that we've reached the goal of kindergarten for everyone before we've reached the goal of a home for everyone. I am pleased that the Council of State will follow closely, carefully on the development. This is a mantra from this government. I have asked questions to various government councils on different subject areas, and everyone answers the same question. Finally, the Christian People's Party would really want us to have the majority with us in such an important matter. It's about our kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e803	There are many people here today who have pointed out that the situation in child protection is serious. And it's worrying when it comes to creating the impression that there are not professional assessments and the best of the child who decide what kind of help children and families get from child protection, but economic considerations. I'd like to say a little bit about municipal child protection. It's the first line service for child protection. This is where the alarm messages are coming from. A lot of people are telling us about the lack of municipal capacity in child protection. In several places they are concerned about the resource situation in municipalities. Municipalities are said to have too little capacity, to get employees to do all the work and to have too little time and resources to acquire adequate skills. We are still told that municipal child protection is heavily understaffed. When the municipal capacity is low, the consequences are great: alarm messages can remain unfollowed immediately, many things that should have been investigated are being ignored instead, the follow-up of the municipal foster homes fails. Unfortunately, the prevention activities of municipal child protection often have to be reduced because municipal child protection is so undersized. It cannot be the economy that governs the provision of child protection can provide in individual municipalities. We cannot have a weak local economy that limits the ability of child-restraint children to secure growth. The Christian People's Party believes that we must have an increase in the number of annual works in municipal child protection. In this proposal, we point out that we may have to take steps to introduce recruitment standards within municipal child protection. And maybe we should also label the funds. The government said in the fall that it would provide 400 new posts in municipal child protection. It seems that municipalities have problems following up and prioritizing this. So what does the Council of State do? The Christian People's Party encourages him to become tougher. What is being done today obviously does not last. Governments have a strong and good commitment to child protection and to children. He knows that something has to be done. We believe that he owes the children and all those who work in child protection – who otherwise do a very important job every day, all credit to them – to say clearly from how we should help them: when are we going to be able to have full coverage in child protection, and how are we going to get there? It is high time we had a stepping-up plan for full child protection, with clear targets and deadlines for achieving the targets. It should be obvious that we have a measure of full coverage in child protection. It is a paradox, as I said, that it seems that we are soon reaching the goal of kindergarten for everyone, before we have reached the goal of a good and safe home for everyone. The issue now under consideration is important and the proposal is a good one. It's just sad that the majority won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e822	This case is not a criticism of those who work in child protection, on the contrary. The Council of State says that the opposition is amusing when we are told that this should be evaluated and evaluated. No, we're not having fun. We want to help the children's protection. Child protection faces many challenges. The scoop increases, and there are queues of children who need help – we are not talking about car queues or queues of people standing at the train station waiting for trains that never come. SV and the red-greens have become a party of queues. They don't care about the car queue. They don't care if people are in line at the train station. But being indifferent to these children who need help is very serious. It's a vulnerable group. There are children who need help -- our help, and the Big One's help. We need more people who can work in this important field and make an effort. There is a great deal of political consensus on this particular issue. These figures and needs are mentioned for the protection of children, up to 1500 people until 2014. It is not long until 2014. That's about. three and a half years. Governments want to have dialogue with KS. Does that help? Does having a dialogue with KS help when you have a challenge as big as I think this can be? I don't think that's enough. Until today, 400 new posts have been allocated in the municipalities. But the feedback is that it is not visible. It might have been important right here to designate the means. There is a matter for the Council of State to consider. There's a growing gap between demand and supply. I believe that child protection needs more professionals to pull this important load. A solution can be the upgrading of psychology education. Most child protection users need support to get through crises and difficult phases of life, or help to manage life. Municipalities need such support and quality assurance. This can also be done through lowthreshold services in primary health services. A solution may be the introduction of a test scheme with reimbursement for multiple psychotherapeutic directions and the monitoring and documentation of the potential benefits of this type of interaction. This is also important to assess. I want to inform the Council of State that there are a number of psychotherapeutic directions. I would also like to inform the Council of State that there are many private child protection institutions with capacity. These are the instruments that the Council of State must use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e837	A councilman in Telemark once said to me, "Do you want to mark yourself, or do you want the matter solved?" That's a little bit how I feel: the opposition doesn't hear what we're saying. We have one common goal, and that's to solve this issue in child protection together with the opposition. Then it might indicate that the Right is miles away from the government offices, because they have actually forgotten how political work works. I have been sitting in this room when the Right has been in government. They worked exactly the same way – they voted down all our proposals: you have been so good at waiting for the budget, you too. This is actually how it works. So, of course, we're going to be measured on the budget we're presenting. It sounds like we haven't invested in child protection at all. I can remember the increase of 1.5 billion in the last four years. There are not so many parties that can beat the table with so much more money than the government has proposed. But in the name of propriety: the Christian People's Party has put forward proposals in the budget for more money for child protection. Then the representative of Hofstad Helleland says that all she hears from the Council of State and from us is that one should evaluate and evaluate. Think, so bad that we have a government that is actually busy getting an overview of how we should put the measures in place, so that they seem the best possible! I am absolutely sure that our government can also have two thoughts in its head at the same time when it comes to resolving the crisis in child protection, namely by evaluating, looking at measures and at the same time acting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e850	Now I don't get any sense of anything. A common goal is to resolve the crisis in child protection, says the representative of the Workers' Party, Gunn Olsen. Last Thursday, Arild Stokkan-Grande, also from the Workers' Party, said that child protection fails. Now the representative, Gunn Olsen, says that we have to wait until the budget is presented. Are we going to say to all the children out there who really need help, that they have to wait until the budget comes – the budget comes in December, and there are quite many months left – to sort out the crisis that is in the field of child protection? Because it is a crisis, and there are concrete proposals here on how we can solve it. The government, on the other hand, has not made a proposal in recent months on how we can resolve the crisis in child protection. And we cannot wait until the budget is presented. There's one thing that hasn't been addressed in the debate, and it's post-protection. Many of us saw a couple of weeks ago an entry on the Saturday Revy in the NRK about a girl who lacks protection. Children’s protection ends with measures after 18 years of age – in some cases a few measures can be taken until 21 years of age, but a large number of municipalities refuse such applications. It's okay enough for us other people who have a family that works, but it's probably after these kids are 18 years old that they need a steady and safe family? Very many of the child-restraint children who have been in child-restraint institutions and perhaps also in foster homes have nothing when they end their stay. They don't have a network around them. That is why the proposal that is now on the table, from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, is so important – a proposal to look at the possibility of post-closure until 23 years old. I am surprised that the representative from SV is talking about not having privatisation and commercial operation into child protection. In an overall committee note, it is important to look at the individual needs of children. Maybe there's a child who needs a stay at a private institution that's close to home, and that's the proximity to be taken into account. SV has also noted that ‘the child’s needs must be guided by the measures taken by the protection of children’, and that capacity must be available both in private and in public institutions. It is important that the Government looks at the needs of individual children — not as is often the case today, that they are denied access to a private institution because of this government’s aversion to private institutions governing child protection. The individual child needs to be in the driver’s seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e859	The representative, Gunn Olsen, has already presented the alternative budget proposals of the Christian People's Party – in a commendable way – so I am not going to correct the Council of State any more in this respect. This applies, inter alia, to: strengthening the capacity of the county councils, post-protection, development measures, preventive measures – overall strengthening of child protection capacity between 100 and 200 million. kr. Then it is referred to that it was the Bondevik II government that introduced the use of tenders in the protection of children. Yes, that's right, but we also got an exemption, which the government has so far chosen not to use in full. It's a very bad defense for your own policy when you've been running the country for almost five years without actually solving the problem that the SV representative points to. The Christian People's Party will be able to go through the reform that we ourselves have presented – self-critical, of course. Nor have we ever adopted a state reform that we have not been willing to review and evaluate afterwards, when it has worked for some years. Of course we should. Then the Council of State refers to an escalation in the budget. What the Council of State has said is what he wants. The size has not been submitted to any form of escalation plan in the State budget, but one refers to a wish. Then it is said that if the municipalities do not implement this, other instruments need to be considered. The difference between that and the alternative of the Christian People's Party is that our proposal states that 'if necessary' should be used to designate funds and staffing standards. This means that the objective is overarching, and the instruments will then be implemented. Now we are told to wait and look at what comes out of the Council of State's possible assessment of what he does if the municipalities do not follow up. There is no escalating plan. Then the representative shows Gunn Olsen that you have to choose whether to make a mark or to resolve the matter. It is a very provocative statement; the proposal is actually intended to meet the challenges of child protection. When signed on 17 November last year, the proposal we are discussing today was presented, I did not say a critical word about the government's child protection effort. I stretched out my hands and said that we want cross-political cooperation to meet the challenges of child protection. The government parties met this with positive mention, but in committee we have not received one invitation from the government parties to cooperate on formulations, other decisions or another type of continuation of this process that could have allowed us to actually resolve the matter. If someone wants to make the mark, it's okay, but the important thing is to get the case solved. I guess the worst thing must be if you don't do neither one thing nor the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e872	It's the opposition's job to criticize the government – so I'm not going to criticize the opposition for that. However, it must be allowed to impose certain quality requirements on the criticism that is coming. In particular, I think there are two things that should be on the ground: one is that you give yourself time to look at how the measures that are put in place actually work, before you criticize the Government for not doing anything. The second is that you should have completely different suggestions even before you reach the large rhetorical heights and talk about how bad the government’s proposal is. Although in this debate I am very pleased with the inter-political commitment on child protection, I do not think there are any quality criteria in the criticism that is coming. For the two main concerns of an overall committee, as I see it, is the manning of municipal child protection and the interaction between state and municipal child protection. The two concerns are also my main concerns, and these are the two main challenges we face in the field of child protection. With regard to the first, we have said that we expect the municipalities in 2010 – not next year or long in time, but now – to follow up with 400 new jobs, and we have granted the money that is required. With regard to the second point, we have not said that we should first of all evaluate the reform, but that we are launching an improvement programme in Buffetat to achieve results now – in terms of costs, in terms of structure, in terms of better interaction. I believe it is a little special to conclude that none of this works until it has had time to work. If it turns out that we're not reaching the goals we've set, we're obviously going to have to have a discussion about other instruments, but let's see how far we're going. I don't remember that in the debate we had about the budget before Christmas, there was a strong call about ringing. On the contrary, the opposition has largely supported the financial framework for child protection proposed by the Government. That's the good reason, for example. in the case of posts, the number of new people admitted to child protection in a year is limited. The escalation we've seen with 400 a year, which was sketched last year, has taken it into account. How many can municipalities recruit? How many are there with child-restraint skills? When the opposition has so much joined about that goal, about that use of money, I might have expected that there would be a little more similarity between words and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e879	Gunn Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e882	To the representative Hope: The fact that it was marked was not directed at the Christian People's Party at all, and I'm sorry if it was perceived that way. I think I made it clear in my post that I actually agree very much with the Christian People's Party's proposal. Then I have to say that I light up with light and light in this year's budget to find the great radical proposals of the Progress Party on child protection. The Progress Party has largely supported the Government's proposals on money, and then I think maybe you can go a little high when it's not more than three months since we dealt with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e889	The representative Olsen thought you could have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One idea is evaluation, we've got that. The problem is we're just looking with light and light to find the other tank. Some of that is also a response to the Council of State, which seems to be a good thing to criticize, but what are we criticizing? Why don't we give ourselves time? What's really going on here? I think one of the opposition's problems is that we can neither see nor perceive that there is any concrete initiative and an action force to address the problems we are bombarded with in public space. We have problems seeing the link between the ever-increasing press releases – one more grotesque than the other – and the celebrations held in this hall and held in this hall by this government for five years. So this is not a new debate. We started this five-year period with a two-year period of rather intense debates, with the issue of child protection capacity and private versus non-private actors. As a programme — and expressed very clearly here — the current National Council for the Protection of the Child was to be phased out. That concept has later been moderated, and later there has also been more goodwill with the so-called non-profit institutions. So there's been a change and a development in the government's perception of this. At the time, the government warned the opposition not to take capacity – the total capacity – into use in the protection of children, but on the contrary, it was stepped down on very important, completely central actors. At the time, we made it quite clear that in the wake of this, we had to expect that the capacity would fail, and that the public would have major problems in compensating for what was then phased out. The tender rules were used in the worst sense. With the Government safely in its back, Buffetat could run a pretty tough race compared to just that and constantly marginalize important parts of the capacity. So this had to come. You had to face the problems that we now constantly get demonstrated there, and are there and there. So there's a lack of coherence between the grotesque problems we face in the public, and the measures that we can't see that the government is able to formulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e899	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e902	The representative Skei Grande suggested that the government council might have a little bit too much ice in its stomach. When the Council of State shoots back at the opposition and challenges the opposition while trying to defend child protection and demand quality criteria in the debate, it seems a little desperate. Since it is Stortinget's ski day today, it may be tempting to suggest that the government council has ice in the rubble. I do not mean – I want to make it clear – that the many measures taken by the Council of State do not work. The problem is that we actually don't have time to show what the ambition is, and what is the goal, because that's what's missing, and what we're asking for in our proposal, but we haven't actually got a response from the government parties. There are many government councils who have worked hard in the budget conference after the budget conference for the development of kindergartens, but the government councils have had an ambition from the Stortinget and a deadline to be measured up against. We don't have that in terms of child protection. That is what the proposal is all about, and that is what is unfortunately voted on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e909	I'll be brief, but I think this is a debate we can take the time to finish, because the topic is so important. When the representative Thommes is trying to explain the great difference between the opposition's view and my view of the main handles, I still don't think the answer from the opposition is very clear. There is no other person who has formulated a different objective for the position target in the municipalities than 400 in 2010. I fully agree that if we fail to do so, we must assess other instruments. I note that the Christian People's Party is already alone in demanding ear-catching. I think that's wise. That's where we're on the line. With regard to the division of responsibilities and the division of tasks between government and municipal child protection: Yes, I think there is a need to make changes, and therefore we are now making changes by requiring better resource use, more interaction and more consistent practices across the regions of Bufetat. A comprehensive improvement programme has been launched to achieve this. So, we address what the Committee believes is the most important challenges now, and we do it in a way that I record that there are no other proposals – perhaps with the exception of the Christian People's Party – for how we should do it. Then it's the slightly larger debate, which is how the future structures of child protection should be. We had that debate last week, among others. There I registered that some of the parties are very clear that they want to transfer large tasks back to the municipalities, which goes in the opposite direction to what the Bondevik government initiated. That is a view I respect, but I don't think anyone in the opposition believes that we should immediately adopt such a fundamental reform, and I don't think anyone believes that it will solve the acute challenges. The acute challenges are about stepping up the number of employees in the municipalities, and making sure that the money we already have in Buffetat reaches the child-restraints to an even greater extent. I'm doing something about that, we're doing it every day. Of course, I will accept those measures to be judged in this room, but I think it will be fairest that we are judged when the fasitium is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e922	Now it wasn't my ambition with my previous post to sort out the main differences between opposition and position in this area. It might require a slightly different case and a slightly broader approach than what you can reasonably do in 3 minutes. There are, of course, some main differences in the approach highlighted in the debate. One approach is different in terms of public and private, and we're sure to be able to go into it at later intersections. I look forward to that. I also see the Council of State as positive and helpful in many ways, which I think is promising for the matters that we have to expect the Government to come with. The second major issue raised by the Council of State is the question of the division of labour by country/municipality. There is no secret that the Right approach to this is increasingly moving towards the municipality. We had wanted several initiatives from the Government to shed light on the possibilities that municipalities have. We find it a pity that the trial in Trondheim was terminated. We think it is a pity that the government does not have a more out-of-date and active role in relation to the intercommunal cooperation that we see examples of between small municipalities. So once again, what I'm experiencing is today's text and today's frustration: it goes on which – had I said almost – action is capable of mobilizing within the framework of a public bureaucracy. So what is our ability to solve immediate problems? The big public bureaucracies are often a heavy shot, but in this case I think we get it demonstrated in a very conspicuous and sad way. Then the question is, what power can you mobilize? It's the responsibility of the Council of States to mobilize the power of immediate action that gives us the answers and the assurance that we can actually handle things like those we've seen in Westfold, in Bergen and around, and that we meet with all the time. These are the answers we miss, and it is not – frankly – a lack of opposition proposals. We have proposed, and we have proposed. I'm going to guarantee the Council of State that we're going to propose again, and we're going to propose further. So it's not going to be a lack of suggestions. We will propose how resources can be made available, how pilots in municipalities can be deployed, how they can better reach municipalities – in short, how municipal and public child protection can be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e933	It's been a good debate. The Council of State criticises the opposition for addressing this important matter. It is the opposition’s privilege, for the opposition has now made a proposal to have an escalation plan until 2017. Unlike the Government, the opposition actually has an ambition to do something about child protection. The only thing the opposition wants is to take care of what a child is entitled to. When children fail by their neighbors, it is important that child protection has the resources they need at all times to do the task they are assigned to. But when we repeatedly see that there is no prevention, the rate of deposition is only getting higher and higher, and children who are entitled to supervision do not get it, it must be the opposition's privilege to be allowed to make proposals, and then the government parties can vote against it. But what they are voting against today is actually a stepping-up plan towards 2017. So the government council says that the government's plan is that they want an acute escalation of the number of posts. During the December budgetary procedure, the whole of the Grand Duchy voted for the posts proposed by the Government. But the municipalities have not followed up the Government's intention. The municipalities completed their budgets in December. I don't think the municipalities, if you ask them now, have more money now. Will the Council of State wait until December before he goes in and asks the municipalities: Where was it of the positions for which a total accumulation was accepted? It's too late. Even though only three months have passed, the government must already go in and ask the municipalities: what have you spent this money on, as the Stortinget has granted, and which is going to go to Child Protection, to help the children who need it so badly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e946	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e954	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e973	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e980	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 5, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 6, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, if necessary, to introduce the designation of funds and the standard of manpower in municipal child protection, in order to achieve the objective of full child protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e1013	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of a State Children’s Protection Authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e1028	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to follow up the Storting decision to assume State responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers up to 18 years of age.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e1045	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for a child-restraint plan that will ensure full child-rescue coverage by 2017. Full child-resistance coverage includes: – enough treatment capacity in municipal child-resistance. – enough foster homes and institutional facilities to provide all children with an offer tailored to the individual’s needs. – enough capacity in the counties to ensure rapid processing. – Sufficient number of supervisors.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on the right to follow-up protection up to 23 years of age for young people with measures under the Child Protection Act.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e1082	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a review of an obliging economic escalation plan and crew standard proposed in Document 8:21 S [[2009-2010]] Here the Left, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-18.ana.ud1786e1120	There is no record. Before we conclude that today's map has been completed, the President will recall that tomorrow's meeting will begin at noon. 9th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the end of the meeting? - The meeting's been cancelled.
