ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e35	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e38	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen will make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of the pottery Siri A. Meling, Oskar Jarle Grimstad, Henning Skumsvoll, Øyvind Halleraker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself to raise the limit for the concession treatment of power plants in sheltered watercourses from 1 to 3 MW.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e43	The proposal by Mr Solvik-Olsen will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e60	‘For generations in Norway, we have trained and trained Norwegian seafarers, developed knowledge and technology and expertise on the sea. Part of our national wealth of knowledge is a maritime competence in products and services that are now in demand worldwide. In Norway today, nearly 100,000 people in maritime nutrition generate values of over 100 billion dollars a year.’ These introductory lines are quotes from a press release by the Maritimt Forum, expressed by the Executive Director, Jørn Prangerød. I'm afraid the knowledge fortune Prangerød refers to, will quickly wonder if the developments that are now in progress will continue unhindered. That is the background to this interpellation, which could as well have been addressed to the Minister of Economic Affairs as to the Minister of Labour. But once I have chosen the Minister of Labour, it is because we see that valuable Norwegian jobs on ships operating in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian continental shelf are disappearing abroad. Many Norwegian seafarers are already forced ashore and replaced by underpaid Asian crews. This is social dumping of a classic nature. The shipowner Teekay Norway AS, who mainly operates a bow-loader in the North Sea, is leading this development – to sharp protests from Norwegian seafarers’ organisations. They require Norwegian wage and working conditions to apply both to Norwegian seas and to Norwegian waters. That is a reasonable claim. Otherwise, in Norwegian working life, the pay and employment of employees is ensured through the contract work. In this case, however, we are facing an employer party who has not been willing to take part in the responsibility for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian pay and working conditions. There are oil companies on Norwegian continental shelf which require Norwegian registration and Norwegian terms of agreement of the shipping companies to carry out their tasks on Norwegian continental shelf. Unfortunately, our own state oil company is not among them. But it's worse than that. We are even aware that the Norwegian state authorities also purchase services from a Norwegian shipping company that has registered their ships under flags of convenience and refuses to enter into a collective agreement with Norwegian maritime organisations. Now I believe that the conclusion of a tugboat contract in the north is primarily an expression of administrative loss of consciousness – and hardly a political attitude. In any case, we have the words of the Minister of Fisheries that the contract will be terminated as soon as possible. However, this shows how far the pursuit of cost reductions in public finances can go – and what consequences it can have. Unlike the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association, the National Association of Construction has joined forces with the employees’ organisations to get rid of unprofessional construction companies that undermine working conditions in an entire industry. Instead, the shipping association is going the opposite way. There they are now on the farm for the introduction of Norwegian international ship register in Norwegian domestic shipping, well aware that it just means that Norwegian seafarers are in this case out of competition by seafarers from other countries with much lower wages and worse working conditions. Now, of course, I know that shipping is a global industry, and Norwegian shipping companies depend on international competition conditions. And of course, we cannot prevent foreign ships with foreign crews from calling at Norwegian ports, but we can and should ensure that ships carrying goods between Norwegian ports have a level playing field. A springing point in this connection is about a loading buoy on the Norwegian continental shelf, as well as a platform anchored at the bottom, is considered to be the Norwegian port. But this is where the expertise goes – not to say the different interests. Nor do we receive help from the Norwegian Shipowners' Association, rather on the contrary. When the Norwegian maritime organisations, with the support of the International Transport Federation, asked for an addition to an agreement for convenience flagged offshore service vessels operating ‘world wide’, with the good intention of creating a similarity between Norwegian registered and flags of convenience when operating on Norwegian continental shelf and between Norwegian ports, the shipowners said no. As a result, the entire agreement was terminated. The consequence is that all Norwegian ships under flags of convenience operating on a Norwegian base now sail without a collective agreement, i.e. the seafarers’ pay and working conditions must be ensured by other means. We simply cannot live with a situation that causes most ships loading oil from Norwegian continental shelf buoys, flagging out, hunting the Norwegian crews on land and replacing them with low-paying Asian crews and completely different working conditions. If this spreads, Norwegian shipping will soon be reduced to some ferries and cargo vessels — and hardly so. However, I trust that the measures taken by the Government to ensure Norwegian shipping pay and working conditions will prevent extensive deflagration and further loss of Norwegian jobs. From 1 May, the requirement for a work permit for seafarers outside the EEA territory seeking hire of ships in Norwegian waters is reintroduced, which means that it will continue to be more difficult to replace Norwegian crews with non-residents in Norwegian waters. One of the biggest political stupidities that the Bondevik government did was to attack the net pay system for seafarers – the same system that several of our European neighbouring countries have had to introduce in order to protect their own seafarers and their own shipping companies from uncompetitive shipping companies registering their ships under flags of convenience. The Bondevik government wanted to introduce a model of competence, which in practice means that the scheme should be limited to certification posts on board. This would have major consequences. Not only the seafarers’ organisations responded. The entire coast reacted when it was made aware of the consequences of the then government's proposal. Our largest ferry company, Color Line, immediately threatened to fly out to Denmark. Only in my county, Vestfold, would it lead to the loss of 1,500 jobs. I am not alone in believing that the attack on the net pay system greatly contributed to the fall of the Bondevik government, and that the country was given a majority government that has since been protected by seafarers' wages and working conditions, and that has given Norwegian shipping industry new and better framework conditions. Indeed, the development of a competitive and innovative maritime industry is one of the main pillars of Norwegian industrial policy. Together with the net pay scheme, this effort has created optimism and progress. The search for maritime education has increased in recent years because many young people increasingly see the sea as a career opportunity. On behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the consulting company Econ Pöyry has carried out an evaluation of the net pay scheme for seafarers. The evaluation shows that the scheme has served its purpose, that around 5,000 seafarers have saved their jobs, and that the scheme has had a positive impact on employment and development of competence in the maritime industry. Nevertheless, Econ believes that the net pay scheme is not economically viable. Or, in other words, it would be better if the 11,000 Norwegian seafarers covered by the scheme found different ways of doing and contributing to the value creation by other means. Now it is not new in itself that the ‘blue noise’ makes such assessments. Also in the Shipowners' Committee there was a majority who felt that the shipping industry had too little income and therefore did not contribute adequately to the value creation of the Norwegian society. Now, of course, we should not overestimate the significance of such investigations. It is, after all, all government and big business that provides the framework conditions for the maritime industry. It is always important and useful that existing schemes and systems are superseded after they have worked for some time. However, it is unduly problematic, and there is considerable uncertainty when such conclusions are put on the table. They contribute to the creation of a breeding ground for further deflagration of Norwegian jobs. It can have fateful consequences. I have difficulty imagining a Norwegian maritime industry without Norwegian seafarers – and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e99	The representative of Gullvåg addresses a theme that has been – and is – important to the Government. The question concerns both my territory and that of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. In order to counteract social dumping at sea, the Government has decided to introduce authorisation requirements for working for foreign seafarers on non-resident registered ships engaged in Norwegian domestic voyages. This requirement implies compliance with Norwegian pay and working conditions. This provision is included in the foreign regulation and will, as the representative pointed out, enter into force on 1 May, i.e. tomorrow. The introduction of this requirement is a follow-up to the Government Action Plan against Social Dumping and the Soria Moria Declaration. The Regulation has been designed in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Freedom of the Seas, including the right to free navigation and navigation in world seas. This regulation therefore only covers ships flying a foreign flag in traffic of a certain extent between Norwegian ports and not ships using the freedom of seas to navigate through Norwegian sea areas. As mentioned above, the regulatory provision enters into force on 1 May. So we have not had experience with the new regulation. In addition, we are currently considering the question of extending the requirement to apply also to foreign seafarers working on board non-resident registered ships in fixed traffic on a Norwegian base. The background for this is that we want to ensure the pay and working conditions of seafarers in this activity as well. On the base, the rules of the Convention on the free movement of seas in the world's oceans will become stronger, as ships move outside Norwegian territorial waters. We assume that fixed traffic between Norwegian mainland ports and Norwegian ports can be covered by such regulation. Foreign registered ships in international traffic between foreign ports and Norwegian-wide facilities fall outside the area of Norwegian jurisdiction and are subject to our international obligations, including: EEA Agreement, WTO, Free Trade Agreements and bilateral agreements. If the Norwegian authorities buy maritime services from foreign registered ships, the procurement law, more specifically the rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts, may be an instrument. Under these rules, the contracting entity may require, in its contracts, that employees have pay and working conditions which are no less favourable than those resulting from the national collective bargaining agreement in force. This Code implements ILO Convention No. 94, on employment clauses in public contracts. For ships flying the flag of Norway, the publication of tariff agreements could also be an instrument. With certain restrictions, the public service may also include mobile devices and vessels in the petroleum industry. The government is working on several levels to facilitate Norwegian shipping. In the Government’s maritime strategy, the ‘Should course’ from 2007, the vision is that Norway should be a leading maritime nation. We aim to be world leaders in maritime competence. ‘Supporting course’ contains a number of measures to make the framework conditions in Norway more competitive. These include a new shipping tax, the continuation of the net pay system and targeted commitment to maritime competence, maritime research and measures for more environmentally friendly shipping accompanied by budgetary resources. Grants for employment of seafarers, including the net pay scheme, shall ensure Norwegian maritime competence and recruitment of Norwegian seafarers and affect approximately 11 500 seafarers on board NOR and NIS registered ships, and this year’s allocation shall be 1 750 million. kr. A recent evaluation report on the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers shows that the scheme is working to the desired end and has had a positive impact on the employment of seafarers. The report says that without the net payroll scheme, a significant number of ships had been flagged out, and by the way, half of the seafarers in the scheme would not have a job at sea. In addition, the schemes through payments to the Norwegian Maritime Competence Foundation have resulted in a sharp increase in the number of training positions on board Norwegian ships and an increase in the recruitment of maritime education. The government wants to facilitate the continued selection of Norway as a host country by the maritime industries. This means investing in maritime workplaces both at sea and in the associated establishments on land. I would like to mention the Minister of Economic Affairs’ campaign ‘Norway as a maritime host country’, which was launched in November 2009. The aim of the campaign is to put new maritime activity in Norway, both by relocating Norwegian activities and attracting foreign actors. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is in the process of identifying legislation and procedures which may impede the selection of the Norwegian flag. The use of Norwegian registers contributes to an increased link between shipping companies and the Norwegian maritime environment. This could have positive employment effects in Norway both on board the ships in question and on land through the purchase of Norwegian maritime equipment and services. An important measure in the maritime strategy was also the Norwegian ratification of the ILO Convention on the Living and Working Conditions of Seafarers. The Convention was adopted in 2006 and is expected to enter into force in 2012. Norway became the first European country, and the fifth total, which ratified it, which occurred on 10 February 2009. The Convention is a milestone in international efforts to strengthen seafarers’ rights globally and will make an important contribution to reducing social dumping. This shows that the Government is working actively to safeguard conditions of competition and the framework, while at the same time laying down conditions for competition in the form of measures to prevent social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e125	I thank you for the excellent response of the Council of States, which not only suggests, but shows that the Government will go further in its efforts to eliminate what I would call social dumping both in Norwegian domestic shipping and on the continental shelf. I have noticed, in particular, that the Government will in fact consider, almost before the work permit scheme for Norwegian domestic voyages has entered into force, also to extend the requirement to apply to foreign seafarers working on board foreign registered ships in fixed traffic on a Norwegian base. This will also greatly affect bow-loading vessels, which are currently the major problem on Norwegian base. The fight against social dumping in Norwegian domestic shipping and on Norwegian continental shelf is equally concerned with creating a level playing field between Norwegian and foreign flagged ships. It goes without saying that if the pay and working conditions of seafarers are allowed to be used as a means of competition between different shipping companies, the least imaginable will eventually be landed. That's why this is a fight we have to take, unfortunately against the shipowners' interests. It should have been according to the shipowner's wishes as well. Then I have noticed that the Government will consider using the acquisition law, in particular the wage and working conditions regulation, in the conclusion of public contracts in Norwegian shipping. It is also an important signal, which will contribute to creating a level playing field but will also contribute to the achievement of seafarers' wage and working conditions already through the contracts. It also plays a significant role, and I thank you for the good signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e134	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that it was so clearly perceived that the fight against social dumping is one of the main priority areas of the Government and the Minister of Labour, in this context in relation to maritime industry. I have gone through the different tools we have for this work. I have underlined the areas in which we are very clear that we will go further, but I have also pointed out – as I have to do – that in some areas there are restrictions in relation to international legislation. No one should think that the government does not want it, but we have to see how far we go in relation to the legislation. I would like to stress that we also have that with regard to the ILO-94 and the procurement code, and we are in a dialogue with ESA on that system. I would like to stress that for the Government and for the Minister of Labour, it is that we are allowed to continue to set these requirements in international contracts, a very important matter of principle that we are going to face in every way. I can't say anything more than that I, not surprisingly, share the objective of the interpellant. We are now going to discuss all the aspects of this matter in order to also go further on what was just in the interpellant, and also look at how this can work in relation to transport with Norwegian bend loaders on the continental shelf.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e143	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this very important matter. I also think that the Council of State gave clear and good feedback that should be able to reassure Norwegian seafarers in today's situation. I'm going to try to make even more good arguments for exactly what the council said. I fully agree with the interpellant in his mention of the importance of shipping here to land. I allow myself to claim that without Norway's fantastic history as a shipping nation, and with top-class seafarers, we would not have been there today, as an oil and gas nation, and as a supplier of top-class technology. Without exaggerating, we can safely say that this is a success story. Of course, we have to take care of this, also into the future, and I would argue that without Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships Norway would not have been able to call itself one of the world's leading shipping nations, no matter how many shipowners with Norwegian names we might have. That is why we need good tools, which ensure that this important competence is maintained, and that recruitment of Norwegian seafarers can be even better in the coming period. I am pleased that the sitting government and today's majority have taken the consequences of this by putting in place a net pay regime that allows Norway to assert itself in relation to the ones we are competing with. Without such a net pay scheme, the road would be open to unflagging and at least as good profits for shipowners, while Norwegian seafarers would be put on land immediately. Therefore, this important net pay scheme must not be weakened at any point. It works well, and it means a lot to employment and to the whole of all parts of the country. As I know, we have seafarers living in absolutely all of Norway's municipalities. These are the few other occupational groups to which reference can be made. In Soria Moria II, it has been decided that the net pay system should continue, and I am very pleased with that. I also agree with the interpellant's views on social dumping at sea. Soria Moria II emphasises that joint control by various public authorities to prevent social dumping, tax evasion and other criminal offences should be further strengthened. This must also apply to workplaces at sea, and now this is followed up, as the Council of State has explained. It then becomes completely incomprehensible to me that there may be some sort of social dumping in the public domain today. I am thinking about the relationship between the interpellant mentioned concerning the lease-in of tug-boat capacity of a Norwegian shipping company registered under flags of convenience, which refuses to enter into a collective agreement with Norwegian seafarers' organisations. I find no other explanation for this event than that it must be an incursion, and I take it for granted that this will be corrected, if it is not already done. If we are to combat social dumping, of course this must apply to all Norwegian workplaces, including those at sea, and of course the public itself must go ahead as the best example. I want to commend the Government for the measures it is now taking to ensure the best possible employment of Norwegian seafarers, and to ensure Norwegian wages and working conditions in Norwegian shipping. I think here, among other things. on the reintroduction of the requirement to work permits for seafarers, which will apply from 1 May, i.e. tomorrow, as both the Council of State and the inter-pellant were in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e164	The Interpellant addresses an important issue and asks what the Government can do for Norwegian maritime workplaces. Norway is one of the largest shipping nations in the world. Norwegian reiar teams control the fifth largest fleet in the world measured in the number of ships. It is an industry characterised by strong international competition, in which the framework under which the shipping industry operates is to a large extent defined beyond the borders of Norway. Norway's strong international position is reinforced by the fact that Norway has a complete maritime environment, with a total value creation of nearly DKK 100 billion and about 100,000 added. Although Norway is a major shipping nation, Norway is a part of the world fleet marked reduced in recent years. It is that the financial crisis has been and is noticeable in this industry, as it is in industry. The Norwegian seafarer and woman begins by choosing an education before the different subjects can emerge before seafaring. One will need more than 20,000 employees within the next few years. Many people have to recruit from abroad, as one must also in other industries, even though others from Norway want to choose a maritime education. Here that otherwise in society chooses a part to interrupt education say, unfortunately. But comfort may be that before this area is no more interrupted than in other educations. It is important to mention the schoolship, where there is actually a large search, but few places, as these do not fall under the criteria of approval in the second paragraph of point (a) of Section 2-1 of the Private School Act. It's bad that one inside an area where there's a lot of needs, where you can expand the number of places, and where there are also searchers, is not allowed to do this. It must then be possible to see a context here, so that one can discover more before these occupations, for which there is a shrieking need before shipping. Social dumping is a word used in the interpolation. It is then appropriate to refer to the model agreement, which is an international agreement without speed limits, where the wages of the individual seafarer will vary with the type of ship and the settlement arrangements. For ships engaged on international voyages registered in NIS, the tariff agreements between Norwegian/Nordic citizens and other nationalities differ. Norway’s Shipowners’ Association has concluded agreements with the Norwegian Maritime Organisations for Nordic Citizens and with twelve different National Maritime Organisations, where the Norwegian Trade Unions are also parties to the agreements. It is voluntary that a company will use these agreements or not, but for ships operated by members of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation, these will be mainly useful. The minimum salary for a sailor in the Nordic NIS agreement is approx. NOK 27,500 per year. month before tax. For foreign flag, model agreements are negotiated with the same parties mentioned above. For foreign registered offshore vessels, the agreement is nationality neutral. This agreement has two different levels of pay, depending on whether the ship is to operate on a northern European base or on remote sockets. After this agreement, the minimum salary in the North Sea for a sailor will be approx. NOK 10,700 per year. month. The additional person pays very low or no tax in his home country. He would otherwise have his expenses in his home country, not Norway. For ships under so-called open registers, ITF has the role of inspector for all ships, and in order to avoid boycott, an agreement shall be made with the ITF on the terms and conditions of pay and work indebted. For Norwegian shipping companies, an agreement with ITF Norway on the model agreement to be applicable to seafarers on board is then concluded. ITF and maritime organisations have been parties to these agreements for more than 10 years, but are now suddenly defining their own network of agreements as social dumping. An example is the case with Troms Offshore, which really has nothing to do with social dumping. We're opponents of social dumping, but we remind ourselves of the government's own definition: ‘It is considered as social dumping if workers are exposed to infringements of health, environmental and safety rules and are offered wages and salaries which are unacceptablely low.’ [[...]] [[...]] Norway’s Shipowners’ Association has held talks with foreign seafarers, and they have gone ahead and negotiated agreements for foreign seafarers with the Norwegian trade unions. The agreements are not social dumping. Shipping is an international industry, and most of the business goes outside Norway. As a small country, but a large shipping nation, we are therefore dependent on free access to foreign markets. We mean that, for example. boikott to force Norwegian added on board will not give you any more workspaces. It's simply the wrong medicine and an inappropriate tool. Norwegian competence is important, but the solution is not to boycott ships. On the other hand, strengthening and stabilising the net pay system will contribute significantly. Ingvald Fardal, Managing Director of Fjord Line, says it in a simple way: ‘The two new ships put into service in 2010 will not have Norwegian flags in the fence due to a lack of long-term stability in the net pay scheme.’ That is why the Progress Party now has its own proposal, because we want stability in the net pay system, and that is what we are promoting on 28 April this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e200	I record that the interpellant far into the fifth year of the Government is concerned about the development of Norwegian seafarers, and many can join. We must be aware that Norway is the world's sixth largest shipping nation, and that we are the second largest on offshore shipping. In particular, over the years international activity has laid the foundation for Norwegian seafarers’ jobs. That means we need access to other nations' territories. We must not discriminate against other nations more than those resulting from national law. In that case, we may be exposed to a corresponding protectionism. And then I think we have to try to participate in as equal a competitive environment as possible and open ourselves up to competition. I perceive the interpellant as perhaps more concerned with solutions that prevent the arrival of foreigners and participation in competition in Norwegian waters. There may be a risk of conflict with other nations and also with international maritime law. This was the Council of State inside, and I'm going to come back to it a little bit. The requirement for a residence permit now introduced has been a balancing exercise on the edge of it, but as it is now designed, it is also necessary to be aware that a framework non-EU ship, and it is relatively easy to fly from outside the EU and into it to avoid it. In addition, we have this three-month deadline, which can also be interrupted by leaving Norwegian waters. So there are gaps in this, and I perceive that's what makes the interpellant looking for further action. I am not a member of social dumping and unacceptable pay and working conditions, and I think we should work to get rid of it in all industries. But I think we should be careful about distributing too many labels in that discussion, so that it doesn't get so unfurnished that those who put questions are accused of wanting social dumping. It is a fact that the term social dumping on this type of employment agreement – i.e. for seafarers with lower wages than Norwegians – does not occur until the ships cross the Norwegian border. We have a number of agreements that work out, and as Norwegian mariners' organisations actually join, which would be described as social dumping in Norway. When we cheer on getting a John Fredriksen boat home to NIS, we must be aware that there are seafarers on what the interpellant calls underpaid foreigners' tariffs. So a little bit to what the interpellant takes up about the net pay scheme, which I understood was the matter that brought the government into the government offices. There has been a report that shows that this works, it has provided more Norwegian jobs. At the same time, the report states that this is socially unprofitable. The interpellant is pleased with the report when it says something about the scheme's preservation of Norwegian jobs, but it is «blue Brussels» who has said something about it, when it is socially unprofitable. I think you might have a slightly more balanced view of that type of report, and I note that the government has also put a roof on the net pay scheme. So finally, to the Council of State, which I am very pleased to say that what the Government is going to do further, is strongly based on the desire to counter social dumping. But she stresses both in her first post and in fact even stronger in her second that this is limited by international obligations, by international conventions on the law of the sea – and I also hope for the desire to be able to operate in the best possible way in an international world with the big industry that Norwegian shipping is for this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e219	I would like to thank the representative of Gullvåg for addressing a very important issue and give us the opportunity to discuss this matter, which fits well the day before 1 May. I would also like to thank the Minister of Labour for an adequate response, which shows that the Government takes this issue seriously and goes into it, and already has things on the drawing board that will improve the situation. Norwegian trade unionists are fighting a hard fight for Norwegian pay and working conditions in the Norwegian area. It must also apply to seafarers. Therefore, it is important that the new rules enter into force tomorrow and that the Minister of Labour has been thoroughly briefed on. Unfortunately, we do not have employers and shipping companies with us in the fight against social dumping. On the contrary, the Shipowners' Association is working to change the rules for NIS in a way that will push Norwegian seafarers out, and there is a struggle that SV will strongly oppose. We cannot change the rules for NIS in such a way that we put extreme pressure on Norwegian seafarers, and in addition facilitate social dumping. Norwegian maritime industry is important for the Norwegian economy. We saw that last night when Regeringa went out with a large package to ensure that the competence we have in the Norwegian maritime industry can also be passed on in difficult times, even in a difficult delivery situation. But what one has to remember is that Norwegian seafarers are an essential part of Norwegian maritime nutrition. Without Norwegian seafarers, it will be a major challenge to sustain the technological and market competences that we have throughout the maritime industry. That's why it's so important that we keep up the fight to take care of Norwegian jobs, keep up the fight against social dumping, and that we don't let the Federation of Shipowners push us to change NIS and other rules, so that Norwegian seafarers have a difficult future in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e230	First, thank you to the interpellant for putting an important issue on the agenda. And then a little visit to the Progress Party, because after the post from Reiertsen's representative, I'm a little uncertain about whether the Progress Party knows what social dumping really is, but I'll leave it. Unfortunately, social dumping continues to occur in Norwegian working life, although the Government has taken many proper and important measures to combat it. Much attention has been paid to the construction industry and much has been done. But we know that the problem also occurs elsewhere, for example. in agriculture, in the clean-up and service industries and – as the interpellant mentions – in shipping. The use of labour is unacceptable. In the case of non-resident workers, they are often in a very vulnerable situation. They may be far from home, lacking language skills and not familiar with our laws and regulations. Social dumping also affects employers and enterprises that act seriously and follow the rules. When they lose contracts unprofessionally, the good jobs can become unsafe and the pay and employment of employees are under pressure. So these are the unprofessional companies that get a competitive advantage. Social dumping also affects future recruitment, because we know that we do not get young people to take education in industries that have received an unprofessional stamp. We have to make sure that this doesn't happen within the maritime industry. In its ultimate consequence, this is also a threat to our entire model of society. The welfare state is based on an attractive labour market with decent wages and regulated conditions. It ensures the standard of living of the individual, but also the financing of the welfare state. Social dumping must also be seen in the context of the fight against undeclared work, tax evasion and economic crime. The Norwegian model of society is inter alia: built on a safe and equivalent working life. This has given us the welfare community, with a high degree of social equality. That's why it's so important to protect about the most important ingredients in this successful model. In the case of social dumping in Norwegian shipping, it is important to focus a lot on this, as the interpellant well explained in its submission. It's one of our most important industries and part of Norway's face outside. We must take responsibility for this and maintain a labour market also within this industry, where everyone follows the rules of the game. And I am glad that the Council of State today has underlined that this is an important matter that the Government focuses a lot on and actively continues to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e247	Thank you to the interpellant for putting an important item on the agenda, and thank you to the Council of State for a very good response. It's time to remember that it's May 1st tomorrow. There's a signal that there's a difference between the left-hand side and the right-hand side. The left side has been a driver for the promotion of workers' rights at sea too. I can sign the Gullvågs summary of the involvement in Westfold, and I can assure the representative and others in the Chamber that there was no less in West Agder. It was a major commitment and a major trade union ‘trafficking’ to change the decisions that the Bondevik government had taken. And the ‘tired’ reflected not only among seafarers and trade unions, but also among the general population. West Agder is a state of great traditions in maritime transport. The Labour Party believes that social dumping must be combated in all industries. That is why I am very pleased with the signals that have now come from the Council of State. I want to say that these signals help to lift the industry and ensure the quality and professional development of maritime professions. The representative, Tone Sønsterud, was also concerned with quality in the industry. In the broad sense, this is about taking political action to ensure equivalent employment and respect for the work done by our seafarers. In the small picture, this is about the lives of individuals and opportunities to live a good life. On May 1st represents the day of the workers. One of the most important things that makes us today have as good a country to live in as Norway is that we have a good cooperation with the trade unions and that we work well with the business community. It is the most important pillar of the development of a good welfare society. The policy dividers go right between the left, which sees that combining business development with political governance provides good results, gives security to individuals and security and predictability to industries, and the conservative right-hand side, which is little concerned with systems. They're attacking us because we're so busy with the systems that we don't see the individuals. They believe that seeing only the individual creates security. We see that being concerned with both the system and individuals and being able to combine this in political decisions and political work is what ensures the security of the people most. Then we see political dividing lines in the debate here, too, in terms of how much one should rule, and to what extent the market should rule in terms of maritime rules. The reality is that the right side will not have control – they will not have control. And when the Progress Party stands here and says that they have promoted a proposal for a representative on the net pay system, while at the same time not want technical cooperation at the central level, they do not want the management of business at all – they have to have the free market, precisely because the individual himself has to create his own safe job – it is not a matter of intervention, President, if it is a parliamentary expression that I can use. At least it's not good politics. So I'm very happy that the government takes these political steps and shows that it's actually possible to combine politics in the broad picture with the needs of individuals, and ensure that these two things are combined in a good way – for the benefit of the seafarers, for Norway and for the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e269	The President can see no reason why the expression ‘not hanging in touch’ should be unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e272	To the extent that it's allowed from this pulpit to speak for the gallery, I'll do it right here and now, because there's a lot of people with orange t-shirts that are directly dependent on us getting a level playing field on Norwegian continental shelf and in Norwegian domestic shipping. It's really their jobs. In its statement earlier today, the Council of State said that the publication of collective bargaining agreements is one possibility for Norwegian domestic shipping as well. The check on the law we have in this area is that it is the subject of tariffs that has to decide whether to make the collective agreements applicable in a particular area. And there's the fact that there's also the Shipowners' Association, which so far has done what they can to block any attempt to generalise tariff agreements in this area. I am pleased that the Council of State mentioned the possibility of using public contracts as an instrument for achieving a level playing field and thus also good pay and working conditions on the base and on domestic voyages. If we got the State Oil Company Statoil to implement such principles in its procurement policy, we would take a long step closer to ensuring a level playing field and a level playing field on Norwegian soil. Then I finally want to say, because yesterday we witnessed that several government councils agreed to present a package for the yard industry, that I could wish for an equal number of councillors to stand up one day and ensure Norwegian seafarers good and equivalent pay and working conditions. It's a cross-political problem that I hope we'll see the results of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e283	The President would point out that if there was no opportunity to speak for the gallery, many of the posts in this room would never have been held! But it might be a little unusual for it to be admitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e286	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for the interpellation, and I want to thank you for the debate, which concerns a very important area. There has been a good and constructive debate that is important for the work of the Government. I want to point cards to something that was taken up by a representative here about the Troms Offshore. I will not say anything about the legality of the notified boycott etc. Some of this is going to court. But I just underline, as the inter-pellant also stressed, that at least the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast has made it clear that in future contracts here, in line with the rules applicable to public procurement, Norwegian pay and working conditions will be required. Then I just want to say to the discussion that has been here about what social dumping is: I am very clear, for my part, that when you have systematic manoeuvring to avoid employing people in Norwegian pay and working conditions, but, as you often see in many industries, hires foreign labour on completely different terms, I can see nothing but that it is the core area of social dumping. This is what you see very clearly in the construction industry, in the hotel and restaurant industries and in the cleaning industry. There are all areas, along with this area, where the Government is now very clear that systematic work is being done through different types of action. So it was said here that there are international rules that restrict what you can do. That's absolutely right. You could like it or not, but that's the way it is. That's why it's very important that we have – and that's what I've been trying to say about here – a variety of different types of instruments, in order through that set of instruments to try to achieve what we really want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e297	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e313	«Every citizen of the State is generally equally obliged, for a certain period of time, to protect his country of origin, without regard to birth or wealth.» That's what the Constitution says, § 109, and it's done since 1907. The protection obligation that the concept has brought back much longer and has historically been the cornerstone of the construction and preservation of the nation state. The duty to protect their country of origin has been established. The same has been done by law through the Constitution, the Act on Obligations of Protection and the Act on Home Protection. The community, on the other hand, and the world, have changed dramatically. The defense has the same thing. There have been consequences for the implementation mechanisms for the protection obligation, mainly the initial military service. Only a few years ago, almost all of the male coal — approx. 30000 – the service, whether it was needed for them or not. Today it is called approx. 10000 in, and 7000 to 8000 in. The defence needs are controlled. The whole intention is that there should be a need for those who actually serve. It is important to distinguish the concepts of compulsory protection from first-time services. One is a legal obligation; the other is one of so many imaginable mechanisms for carrying out the obligation. It's a crucial point that is all too often lost when discussing this topic. One thing is likely to be repeated many times during the debate today, and that is that there is a broad political consensus on maintaining the duty of protection. And that's it. That is precisely why all of us who agree and want a duty-based defence owe it constantly to update and improve its content. All defence policy decision-making documents repeat the message of the importance of the protection obligation. There is broad political agreement that the obligation to protect is the cornerstone of the operational activities of the Defence Agency and of its contacts with the population. By virtue of the duty of protection, the defence shall have access to appropriate personnel irrespective of social and cultural lines. The needs of the defence shall govern the number of called. The initial service shall be the General Defence Recruitment Mechanism. This is something we agree on. It is also useful to reiterate the need for action to do first-time and second-time protection services, such as: in the Home Security, more relevant and attractive. Then the question is whether one is equally good at meeting this need and to promote – and even more importantly – concrete policies to create a meaningful, relevant and competent military service for those who actually deserve their protection. The answer to that, unfortunately, is not as obvious. Here it is natural to praise the Trustee System, which does a very good job as representatives of those under protection. As participants at hearings, in meetings with the Committee or with the party groups, we meet an active and competent trustee scheme that is a valuable premiscuous supplier and sparring partner for us politicians. This interpellation actually occurred after a meeting with the Trustee Order. So what's the Trusted Management system's wish list? It is too long, but I allow myself to mention something. One is gender-neutral protection. The second is to improve the economic conditions, such as: increased distribution and service allowances, or improved pay conditions for trained HV personnel. In parentheses, you might say that, unfortunately, HV personnel are too small and almost not in practice for the time being. This is the development of competence for the individual, the study score and the further development of systems to ensure that military military training and training are accredited civilly, or additional credits for admission to civil educational institutions. These are comprehensive measures. Some are cost-intensive, some are not. A wide range of measures have been implemented by several governments. I also allow myself to point out that the biggest changes occurred between 2001 and 2005. Under the right-hand direction of the Ministry of Defence, there was a measure of what would be done to raise the status of our soldiers who are in the first duty. Specific measures were set for increased service additions, dispensation allowances and study credits. Kristin Krohn Devold was then proclaimed as the ‘military minister’ of the soldiers’ own confidence. Today, too, the intentions are clear. In particular, the long-term plan mentions five areas in which a unanimous increase gave its support. In the spring of 2009, a working group provided a report with 55 different measures that could be of value to those under protection. Not all of these measures are extremely resource-intensive. I can mention some of the measures proposed: departmental labels and distinctions for individuals and uniforms, more systematised and simplified information on defence, simple work environment measures, adaptation of food and serving in canteens and fairs, better record of skills development. Many of these are measures that should be implemented quickly, easily and reasonably. It was expected that several of these measures would already be included in the budget for the current year. But again, unfortunately, the department is remarkably little concrete in the implementation of state-of-the-art measures. In summary, one can go so far as to say that the Government, both through the long-term plan and the budget, once again clarifies that the obligation of protection should be an essential element of the defence's activities, but paradoxically neither has made use of funds nor implemented concrete measures to a certain extent. Many measures can raise status and improve initial services. The most important measure of creating a relevant and meaningful service is based on the compulsory service of first-time service with the aim of being trained as a soldier. Thus, the military training of the defence shall reflect real situations for the soldier to be trained against. This is of great importance to the motivation of the soldiers and not least their ability to solve the demanding task of being a soldier. This means that they shall have adequate, relevant and realistic exercise, time and proper material and adequate ammunition. All soldiers serving first-time service must reach the defined minimum level of skills. This must be a prerequisite for being able to serve as a soldier. I'm afraid it's not like that today. The soldiers are complaining that all so-called green service is disappearing. This has a major impact on the individual guardian's meeting with the Defence and, last but not least, on the country's defence capabilities. The right has repeatedly pointed to the critically low level of exercise and training that is – especially in the Army. It is of great importance to the soldiers' meeting with the Defense that they feel that they are not being trained enough, not realistic enough and not relevant enough. Of course, it also means a lot to the motivation to assess a further career in Defence. The Trustee’s scheme highlights this as the most important point in terms of initial service today. They also agree with the Right in our description of the analysis and the consequences in the long term. For those of us who are concerned with the duty of protection, this point is absolutely crucial. If the quality of the individual soldier and of the security departments, which have an important operational role in our defence, is impaired, then the development towards a fully professional, fully-fledged defense could become a self-fulfilling prophecy. We have to avoid that. Therefore, meaningful, competent military service, with adequate exercise and training, is a prerequisite for the continuation of the duty of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e352	The obligation to protect is a support bar in the Norwegian defence. Under the protection obligation, the defence is anchored in society — a social contract between the defence and the population that allows for mutual influence and understanding. The reputation of the Defence is built by anchoring. And a good reputation is not least important when it comes to recruitment. This is closely related. Through the initial service, we ensure access to well-motivated and skilled soldiers. By means of the protection obligation, we form the basis for further service in the Defence. This is where we lay the groundwork for the recruitment of highly qualified commanders, officers and officers. That Norwegian soldiers are well qualified and do a very good job, we get, among other things. feedback from foreign operations. For each soldier, it is essential that first-time service be perceived as socially useful and meaningful and that efforts be valued. In this way, the duty of protection is given a good reputation and a high status. In dealing with the long-term defence plan, the government’s proposal to maintain and adapt the scheme to a new period of time was widely welcomed. The government has followed this up by extending the initial service to 12 months for all. We have launched a series of measures to raise the status of first-time services. Of course, the decision on the status-enhancing measures, to which the representative Eriksen Soreide refers, has provided the basis for this work. Let me explain the main measures. The session obligation for women is already in place. We aim to conduct a two-part session throughout the country over the next year. This is, in my view, the most important status-raising measure in the short term. In order for the defence to have the greatest legitimacy and upliftment possible, it is essential that the defence reflects society. Recruitment of women to the duty of protection ensures us the most motivated soldiers regardless of sex, a good environment and the best defense. Modern defence is a more diverse defence. The objective of the new session scheme is, inter alia, to: to provide the vulnerable with better information and much more predictability. Through an effective exchange of information with the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, young people gain an increased knowledge of the protection obligation. The scheme provides greater opportunity to meet the individual’s needs in terms of service. This way, we get the right person in the right place at the right time. This, in combination with a better selection, should result in fewer interruptions of the service. Reduced non-response is favourable from the point of view of defence, from a socio-economic point of view and for the individual soldier. In order for the initial service to provide added value for the Defence and for individuals, it is important that it makes sense and maintains a good level of military expertise. Therefore, I would like administrative tasks to be carried out primarily through the apprenticeship system or through the use of categories of personnel other than those subject to protection. Protectors are now able to take basic military training examinations with 15 study credits during duty. Since the scheme entered into force in 2008, more and more offers are being made and examinations are being carried out. That candidates without general study competence can also take the exam and later use these points is a positive scheme that we believe will increase participation. In autumn 2009, a modernisation of Armed Forces Adult Training was also launched. Increased focus on skills-enhancing courses, together with new initiatives such as career guidance, ensures that more people can go straight to school or to work after completing their duties. Let me also mention that we want women now to make a final decision as to whether to complete the initial service when the service starts. So they won't be able to make a reservation in the first three months. The goal is to give more equal treatment to soldiers of both sexes. This shows that we actively and continuously adapt the protection obligation to developments in defence and society. Let me therefore say that we have done a great deal to raise the status of those under protection, and that we are therefore following up the Storting decision in this case. We are now considering several new measures. The proposals cover a wide range of measures in the fields of administration, management and attitudes, information, skills enhancement, school and school scores, and economics. In addition, new measures are being put in place to improve the quality of the service. I am very concerned that the Action Plan for Attitudes, Ethics and Management is actively followed up in all parts of the Defence. This is an important work also in terms of our guardians. And here we have common goals. Thus, an important contribution to this work is this year's military action, where the soldiers themselves have focused on how the Defence can help to create the best possible relationship between command and soldiers. I am, like the Defence Ombudsman, impressed by the good work of our guardians here laid down to improve the collegial relationship between them and the command. Furthermore, the field service assesses how defence can facilitate religious practices for all religious groups in the ministry. This work is well under way, including: on the initiative of the Trustees’ Organisation. In addition, we consider the system of compulsory academic command to make it more attractive to individuals. I would like to highlight here the proposals for improved officer training, salary and the use of officer degrees throughout the service period. At the same time, we are constantly working to get all the soldier cases at a level that meets the health, environmental and safety requirements. As I said, we involve those responsible for protection and their trustees in the work on future actions. The trustee scheme is, as the interpellant has already pointed out, a very important partner with constructive proposals, which has given a higher status and better content to the protection obligation scheme. Our guardians shall be compensated for the important efforts they make for Norway. That is why I am also pleased that the service allowance of our guardians has increased significantly, as was said, in the last decade, and that the dispensation allowance has doubled in the same period. In recent years, we have chosen to give priority to quality raising measures. This includes, as I mentioned, measures to improve the session and work on equality, diversity, quality, management and attitudes. The most costly proposals, such as the raising of military allowances — an estimated 230 million. kr more a year – or the proposal for holiday and pension credits for HV’s intervention forces – an estimated 180 million. kr per year – not promoted. They could have a significant impact on the implementation of the long-term defence plan, and we have therefore not found it appropriate to give priority to these measures at this stage. For this government the implementation of the long-term plan is a clear main priority. The protection obligation is in a special position in relation to the rest of the world of work. The lifting of the protection obligation is also about more than a dollar and a penny for the individual. However, I understand the desire for more compensation and will therefore also work to increase the rates in the future. It is essential that the duty of protection is high in quality and that we ensure that the individual feels that it is meaningful. In this way, protective persons are given the right competences, increased importance and opportunity for personal development. The protection obligation is stronger in Norway than in most of the countries with which we can compare. The duty of protection is central to the strong popular upsurge of defence and thereby to the will and defence of the Norwegian people. That is why, in the future, we will also take new measures to further improve the status of those under protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e405	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I also mentioned in my statement, it is clear that the duty of protection, and to the extent that the service of the first-time service is also an important link between defence and civil society. But I think that even more important to the popular uprising about defence is that we actually have a defense that is able to deliver according to the tasks the defense has. That's what ultimately is the most important popular anchoring. There are many measures that can be implemented both in the short and long term. I want to highlight here some of the issues that I think it is important to continue working on in the future. One is the point that the Council of State was making at the end of the day: how, for example. can assess remuneration for those serving, and insofar as HV too – there are many issues that are important to address. The feeling of fair and acceptable remuneration is important for the motivation of the soldiers. They shall be capable of carrying out that service, with a clear military relevant averaging. In this context, I would just like to point out that today there are many guardians who are serving first-time service, and are doing completely administrative tasks that have no military averaging – sorting mail, ordering air tickets, doing other things that really have nothing to do with the Defense. It's depressing. These are tasks that could have been taken over by civilians. The next point – which I think you need to be aware of has a strong impact on the motivation of those who perform the initial service and on the ability to perform it in a good way, and who ensure good competence – is the extremely poor exercise situation you have, especially in the security services. We have duty-based operational departments, including: in the Army. There is therefore a critical shortage of ammunition, and the level of practice is several places below what the Inspector-General has defined as a critically low level. We can see that when we're around exercises, that special methods are used to make it look like you're out doing a lot of practice. The departments are out for a longer time, but the soldiers get only one night or two out in the field in practice. That's not good enough. It means a lot to the motivation of the soldiers that they actually feel that they are getting appropriate training, a training that is relevant to their mission to defend the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e422	I am very pleased that the duty of protection has been included in this interview, and I am also very pleased that the agreement on the duty of protection has been reaffirmed. I think it's a very important starting point when we're discussing together how to improve the content of the initial service and the quality of the tasks of the individual who's in the service. I agree that compensation is important. However, I chose to explain why these proposals have not been taken forward. We have chosen to give priority to issues related to increasing the quality of the service. I think it's essential for the motivation, and I also think we get a very happy response from the soldiers themselves, related to the work done in this area. Annual surveys are carried out among the soldiers. Last year this was implemented for the third consecutive year, and higher well-being has been reported in all branches compared to the previous year. I think that's the best -- call it what we like -- the quality test we can get on the measures, that's how the soldiers themselves experience the work that's done. But of course we should go on, and in this context I also think it is important to continue to look at the content of the service and the opportunities for practice given. But I think it's important in the situation not to blackpaint the stand out there. It is an important point that we have both strengthened the Army considerably since 2006, and we have in fact effectively strengthened the Army's budget in addition to the wage and price compensation of over 740 million. kr. In doing so, we can also expect that of course it is reflected again in the ability of the soldiers to exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e431	When I went to the recruiting school at Trandum in the 1970s, my sergeant told me that I could be a good soldier if I hadn't asked so many questions. Now, of course, a good soldier should be able to take orders without objection. In a conflict situation, the field crew cannot be operated in accordance with the general meeting principle, but a soldier must also have the ability to critically assess the situation if he or she is to carry out a demanding task. That's why we need soldiers who have a critical sense and who can make independent decisions based on the situation you're in. I know that the recruiting school has evolved since then, and that the attitude towards the guardian and the content of the service is different now. The rest of the normal first-time service I have no experience from, because it was served as a journalist in the Mannskapsavias. But there is also an example of how the first-time service can be provided with content that makes it attractive and far from waste — considering the civil runway it will come as a break in. The general duty of protection is important for several reasons. It is important to create a ownership relationship with the Defence of the population. Defending our country is a shared responsibility. Øystein Sunde has a song called "People to Such" – but we can't hire people to defend the country, we have to do that as a collective. But the general duty of protection is also important because it gives the defence access to the best candidates and because the defence will be a continuation of the social and cultural melting crucible that Norwegian school is. It helps to create a community on the task that is the most important of all if it becomes serious: defending the territorial integrity of the nation. The fact that we also have acquired departments does not alter this fundamental principle behind the general protection obligation and initial service. So it's important that the initial service, which is the central element of the universal protection obligation, becomes meaningful. There are about 8 000 who complete the initial service of 30 000 men per year. When, from this year on, the girls are also called to a session, an even lower proportion of the total annual coal will serve initial service. Therefore, when a smaller proportion of youth schools have to assume this obligation, it is even more important that they feel meaningful and useful. The defence has undergone a major change. This work also looks at the content of the initial service. A separate working group has proposed a number of measures aimed at raising the status of this service. The Council of State pointed out that several measures have been taken, and to the good cooperation with the Council of Trustees, which I am pleased to see. I agree with the praise that the Trustee Order has been awarded here, both from the Council of State and from the inter-pellant. I would also like to point out that the Ombudsman’s annual report points to the positiveness of the apprenticeship system and the initiative taken by the Minister of Defence for freedom of expression, harassment and bullying. The time I was called to the recruiting school was the forced cutting of hair that was longer than prescribed – which, at least, hit all the Beatles-inspired hair sweaters – the big theme. It was perceived as unenvoying and discouraging. Therefore, measures that enable individuals to experience the integrity of their lives, whether by maintaining their freedom of expression or by letting go of harassment and bullying, are important for well-being. And well-being is important for the benefits of the service. There are still many status-enhancing measures that remain and should be implemented as quickly as possible, but as a natural part of the defence transition. The initial service must be such as to meet the needs of the defence and society for well-trained and motivated soldiers. However, it also needs to meet the different needs of the individual guardian over these twelve months — for training, of course, but also for leisure time, opportunities for schooling and for participating in other arenas, as we do in the ordinary community. What needs to be given priority is what is most important in raising the status of the first-time service, namely that the actual training of the individual as a soldier is good and meaningful, as underlined by both the inter-pellant and the Council of State. It is this that really engages in the service, that you learn to control the equipment you are going to use, understand tasks and roles, and have opportunities for adequate training. That's what you're doing. I am sure that when the transition is completed in the next two years, the level of training will also be where it should and should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e446	It is a very important theme that interpellant Eriksen Soreide addresses today. The duty of protection is the support of our defence. The guardians give the Defense the popular anchoring that is so crucial in an open democracy like ours. It is important that the guardians are proud to serve and that the service provides competence. This will make the good ambassadors of the security system. For those responsible for protection, it is important that they have other status in society. The protection obligation shall be an appropriate instrument to ensure security for Norway and peace with our neighbouring countries. At the same time, the guardians must benefit from having earned their protection – that is, what is called a win-win situation in our day. For us who, like previous speakers, served the duty of protection in the 1970s, there was a lot of motivation in itself that Norway was exposed to a constant threat from the Warsaw Pact countries, with the Soviet Union at the head. The Soviets developed the world's largest military base on the Kola Peninsula, just a few miles from Norwegian territory. Norway had to be defended, and it gave status to having done its duty to the country of origin. We, who were finished in the mid 1970s, felt that in a job interview was always one of the first questions about whether you had earned the protection obligation, and in that case what you had done. If you had a good answer to that, you were already on the way. The role of the defence has changed and, when the Defence Committee gathered in 2008, the Government informed that the Committee assumes that the Government is continuing its work to make the initial service more attractive to those under protection, it was not without reason. Of course, this means that the first-time service is definitely not attractive enough and that something needs to be done. The status-enforcement of those who serve as guardians has been a theme for a long time. The 2002 Seventeenth Report has been an important contribution. Some of the measures identified in the report have been implemented, but much remains to be done. It is now also necessary to look at other and new areas of status raising. Societal development is increasing, and the defence must be more attractive to appear as an attractive organization in order to secure well-qualified and motivated soldiers. An instrument here is that at the end of the service, the guardians receive more than one medal, they must be able to use the service as a reference and as an important qualification for a career in civil society. Last but not least, the Norwegian soldiers in foreign operations: the status of the veterans and their ability to use the service as a reference for their career in civil matters are important to them. In addition, this is an important signal for new recruits. It is therefore important to ensure good rights, follow-up and support for veterans. The government has an important problem here, and there's a lot left before we can say that this task is done. This might cost you a little bit. The Progress Party is willing to give priority to this in budgetary terms. The first occasion is the 2011 state budget, and we will see which parties will follow the words.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e457	Once again, the duty of protection is a theme, and once again we hear that the duty of protection has the anchoring in Stortinget that I have seen that it has always had. What I think this interpellation is questioning is not whether the duty of protection is our main recruitment mechanism for Defence also for the future; it is a question of what is to be done, what must we do to ensure that the duty of protection will also be in the future and survive. Then I think it is important to take the signals that the Trustee's system here is bidding through the interpellation. The measures described in the Interpellation, which, to the extent that the Council of State has also been involved, are, of course, important to ensure that the burden on the guardian is not excessive when he is inside and doing his duty. It's also, of course, about status. However, I would like to point out what may be the most important thing for the protection obligation to remain meaningful and continue to be our main recruitment mechanism, namely that during the initial service there are sufficient frameworks for practice, so that the guardians feel that they are actually doing a socially useful task, while they are being trained for the soldiers we need both at home and outside. In this context, we must agree that the exercise activity we see in the Defence Departments today is not good enough. That's where I think the main problem lies in terms of survival, in order to use such an expression, for our duty to protect. Of course, it's the way to focus on the long-term message that the Storting has adopted, but I think it's important, even in that context, to ensure that there's sufficient framework so that the soldiers get the training they need. I think that is even more important than the other measures that the Trustee System points to in order to have a meaningful duty of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e468	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important theme such as the Trustsman scheme in the Defence Agency and to help put it in focus – the Trustsman scheme in which I myself in time made a hard-hitting attempt to get to the top of it. In 1992, after I finished the recruiting ball in the good old intention, which was at the Gardermoen Air Station at the time, I made choices to be the chief authority of the Army in TMO. I lost after a hard fight, where I had no doubt remembered that my main estate was that if one chose me, it would be a great improvement in all the arrangements for trustees, and much better food in the canteens around the country. I didn't win, and I used the rest of the first service to sort paper, archive mail, and do other important tasks for defense. However, I have the experience that it was not so much better before when it comes to the practice of protective measures in Norway. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that it is possible that it was much better in the 1970s, but compared to the early 1990s, significant improvements have actually been made in many important areas when it comes to compulsory protection in Norway. It's my clear impression that a much larger part has a meaningful service directly attached to the tasks that lie in the core tasks of defence. We have been given a session duty for women, which, in my view, is a major and important step forward. There is also a clear improvement in the provision of skills and training in the context of the protection obligation, not least formal training provision in the context of the service. It is also so to a greater and clearer extent now that the defence needs to be governed by the protection obligation. However, there is a very clear need, as the Council of State was also involved, to move on along that track and make improvements. In the short term in particular, I would like to say that there are three important issues: Firstly, the contents of the service and the training offered to our protective crew must be of the highest quality. There's still a good deal to go on, which we're working on from the Government's side to get further improvements in the years to come. Secondly, there is a real need to take a discussion about redress. As I'm going to come in afterwards, it also has something to do with the protection and the way it is practiced today, something quite different than it was a few decades ago. Therefore, the debate on different types of evidence must actually be going on in the years to come. The third is that my clear impression is that, especially when it comes to formal training in the field of competence in connection with the detonation of protective duties, there are still considerable possibilities for doing it better and more systematically. This is true over the next few years, but it is also clear that we are facing a broader debate in the long term. I do not believe that the debate is about whether we should have a duty of protection or not – I am strongly attached to the duty of protection – but about what kind of duty of protection we should have and how we should practice it. During the cold war, more than two thirds of the male population in Norway ignited the duty of protection. One might say that it was relatively common, most men had been through the duty of protection. In comparison, I would like to note that in Finland, as far as I know, there were more than 90 pst. of all men, so there was a significant difference. Today, there are completely different numbers we are talking about. It's no longer that having been through the first-time service means that one does what the great majority of its generation does. This opens up various debates. That applies to the debate on a gender-neutral protection obligation. The protection obligations will be further changed in that direction, but the debate will of course come in the years that are coming to an even greater extent. So that's how we're going to select the guardian, and the selection system -- not least the system of further recruitment to other defence tasks will be a continuous debate in the years to come. I also believe that the debate will broaden the perspective on what the duty of protection is. In its program, for example, it says: that we would like to address the question of civil peace forces, whether they can be an addition to the military protection obligation. Germany has a similar state-aided arrangement alongside the ordinary military protection obligation. To sum up, the protection obligation is very important, we need to continue working with state-of-the-art measures, redress and competence. There will be major debates on the subject in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e491	The centre party is concerned that Norway should have a defence based on a duty of protection and that the duty of protection should form the basis for further service in the Defence. This is a very important element in creating a mutual understanding between the Defence and the people, and it remains to maintain the will to defend and defend the people. That is why I am very pleased that today we have the opportunity to discuss how we should be involved and strengthen the duty of protection. The general duty of protection is to ensure that we get well-motivated and capable soldiers. In order to ensure the protection of the legitimacy of the people, it is also important for those responsible to feel that first-time service is a meaningful service. An important measure to be taken in place is the mandatory session of women. This will help the defence to reflect society more closely. And the fact that more women look at Defense as a possible workplace in the future will help to raise the quality of Defence and increase the interest and commitment of those under protection. The government has said that they want to work to increase the number of women in defence, but have not yet applied for general protection for women. Personally, I think this is something that will come to pass. Gender-neutral protection obligations will be a very important element in strengthening the legitimacy of the duty of protection in the people. The implementation of a two-part session will also contribute to improving the information and predictability of those subject to protection, which in turn could counteract the non-response. Other important instruments may be the ability to make study credits during the course of service. A job has also been done in this respect, which will provide the guardians with an even better offer, and which will allow even more people to gain additional skills after the first job has ended. The discussion about the desire for better financial arrangements has been going on for a long time. Quality-enhancing has been a priority in recent years, and the implementation of the long-term programme also leads to the prioritisation of the funds. But in the future, it is important that the financial arrangements are also raised when discussing what is needed to strengthen the protection obligation. The use of guardians for postal sorting and other administrative tasks will quickly compromise the motivation. Therefore, it is also important that these tasks are primarily done by others. In order for us to have a duty of protection that is still strong in the people in the future, it is important that we have a high-quality first-time service, that the underprivileged perceive the service as valuable and socially beneficial, and that it provides them with something that they would not otherwise have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e508	Let me first thank the representative Eriksen Soreide for the fact that in the interpellation she has just taken up the work of raising the status of those who are implementing the protection obligation. In the Christian People's Party, we are strong supporters of the duty of protection. When more people are inside the defense and more people are familiar with the defence, and can talk about it to other people they meet, I think there's less space between the defense and most people. In this way, the duty of protection is to ensure good recruitment, and to ensure that young people are allowed to carry out a socially useful task. In the debate, several stressed that the duty of protection is that of the Norwegian defence. I agree with that. But I would like, like others in the debate, to comment on the developments that have taken place in the defence when it concerns the number of those who sacrifice the protection. From the moment almost everyone was in, there is now only a small part of the youth school doing military first-time service. In many ways, their bets and services will not be high enough. The Christian People's Party is therefore one of the parties that is impatient at work to make the service more attractive and more attractive. In many ways, it's actually about justice. Because there's only a small part of the year to implement this service for society. In fact, less than one-third – yes, in fact, it is probably close to one-fourth – that implements the service. And if you look at girls and boys under one, it's under 15 pst. providing military first-time military service. Then it is important that their efforts and their spending one year of life on social services are properly valued. And it's important that the service becomes meaningful and attractive. The representative, Mr. Solhell, had the impression that the number of those who got a more meaningful service in the military has gone up. I think that's quite right. But the number of people who run the service has fallen significantly. So I think a lot is related to that. Too many people still have services that are not so-called green. As the interpellant pointed out, the government has asked the government to implement measures to raise the status and improve the compensation for those implementing the first-time service. I think the government's response shows that the government's follow-up is not good enough. As a former chief authority of trust – there are many who have talked about the first-time services here – not in the 1970s and not in the 1990s, but just a few years ago, in Kjevik, I have to compare with several underscore the praise of the Trustee arrangement, which is unlikely to be important in this field. That's why we've had more meetings, and not long ago, the Christian People's Party had a meeting with the trusted ones. They said that the Government and the Defence have a long way to go in order to raise the level of protection, especially in view of the difference between those who are called in to the Service and those who are not called in. They therefore propose a series of measures that will make the services more competitive and attractive. I agree with the Council of State that raising the attractiveness and increasing the status is about more than wages. But it may seem that the Council of State is pushing it with pay ahead of time. I think that's risky. Because what I've been up to is justice. I wasn't one of three, but maybe one of four, in my coal that completed the service. If one took with all, I was one of less than 15 pst. who carried out the service, and it was unfair in many ways. That's why we need to be even better at making sure that it doesn't feel unfair. But status raising is also about improving quality, and I have to say that I share the concern that the interpellant underlines, that many people feel that they are not well-equipped when they come out of the first-time service. I am concerned about the number of exercises that are cancelled, and I am concerned about shooting training that is not being carried out as she should. It's an important part to tackle. But I also believe that what is going on is the study score – the fact that one is left with something after one has lifted the duty of protection – is important. Maybe we can increase it to 30 points of study, as if one was left with one semester. But it's about competence measures, about better information about services, about the possibilities in defence – that a focus is on even better rental, even better retention building work in defense. There is a broad register of actions waiting to be implemented. We've seen developments in Sweden, and the fact that the number of people in there is significantly reduced, and the lack of quality of those who run the service seems to me to be worrying. I'm afraid it'll create the consequence of the debate that's going to come forward. There has been a clear majority, and there is a clear plurality, on Stortingen to keep the duty of protection, but it also imposes an obligation on us to follow up that those who serve the first service get it better than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e535	Thank you to the representative Eriksen Soreide for raising an important debate in Stortinget. Thanks also to the Right who takes a distance from his sister party in Sweden, which is one of the parties that makes us have a broad agreement on the general protection obligation in Norway. When I grew up in the Ring Kingdom, I saw constantly green, usually young men, who went to the march mark right past the school I went to. With three military camps in the area there were many greens to see, which made us talk about the defense and were aware of it in the environment in which I grew up. At the time, the defense had a completely different structure than today, not least because the defense we built after World War II was based on a completely different security policy image. All three military camps in the Ring Kingdom are now laid down, and the army has moved from there to largely the Inner East and Inner Troms. My point is that we have gone from a time when the defense was present with some type of business in almost all the municipalities of the country in the 1970s, so that the defense now concentrates its business to fewer places. This has been the right thing to do, and it has been in line with what has been the defence's wishes and the Stortinge's decision in relation to the long-term plans since then. At the same time, I believe that the restructuring of the defence reinforces the need for a general protection obligation and reinforces the need for a high status of the initial service. It is very important that people in Norway have confidence and knowledge of the defence. They receive it mainly through duty of protection, session and initial service. There is a broad consensus on Defence and the need for protection in Norway. According to the 2008 poll of People and Defence, 90 pst. by the population that Norway should have a military defence in the current situation. In the same measurement, 83 pst says. that we should maintain the duty of protection in Norway. This is a anchoring in the Norwegian people that the Defence needs. The guardians are also evenly satisfied with the Defence and their own service. If you go to the 2007 compulsory safety survey, you will find that about 70 pst. has a quite positive impression or a very positive impression of the Defense. In the marketing language, there is something called a positive commodity record. This means that you speak positively to someone you have been in contact with, about something you have purchased. The positive rate is also the Defense totally dependent on having, that we talk positively about the Defense when we talk to others, and the fact that others outside this hall do. A good number of measures have been implemented to raise the status of first-time services, and several are on the way, and the Council of State has explained well to them. But I want to elaborate on a couple of themes. First a little bit about session. Several have indicated that there is now mandatory session for both sexes. First of all, through the online survey on education, health and motivation, young people are to be found. Based on this, the defense calls in approx. 25 000 to the part 2 session when it is fully roll-in in 2011. It's a personal encounter at one of the Defense Session Centres. Thus, it has been centralized to a number of places where the session is conducted – an important quality enhancement. After that, 10,000 will again be chosen to earn first-time service in the next year. The new session scheme will help hopefully more women get into the defense, that you can give a better and closer personal follow-up, and that people are better prepared for what's waiting for you in the service. Then I want to say a little about something that is not part of the duty discussion, but that I think completes part of the picture. On the internet yesterday I could read that for the first time in many years the defense can fill all the apprenticeship spaces within the maritime trade. What is called Project for Depression is the background of the increased candidate mass. 65 out of 115 students who have been outsourced in the Maritime Defense Department have obtained an apprenticeship contract. The number of applicants for maritime courses has tripled, and the applicants come almost exclusively from schools that have had students outsourced. This deployment is an enormous recruitment potential for the Defense. Through the combination of a good initial service, a good session, a higher quality and a higher level of protection and initial service and an apprenticeship system that also markets and proves to be a very good system, the defence can gain important and good competence in all parts of the organisation. I believe that the Deepening Project should also give inspiration to other parts of the Defense in order to develop the Defence as an entire organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e556	First, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. It is good that there is a lot of positive attention and a lot of commitment about the issue of protection and the content of the initial service. I would say, as my good party colleague Jonni Solsvik said, the question is how the duty of protection will survive in the future. The system we have today, which we all agree to have, depends on development to survive – a good, conservative position. To take the questions from the representative Gustavsen on a tight arm, I would like to say that it is a little harsh argument to refer to Sweden just in the context of who removes the protection obligation. In Sweden, the protection obligation is going to exist, but it is changing. Firstly, women are included in the duty of protection, i.e. the obligation to defend their country under given conditions, but the military first-time service is voluntary. If you're going to be looking first for who has removed protection obligations around the world, you can notice that it was the socialist President Mitterrand who removed the duty of protection in France. Then I'd like to say a little bit about some of the moments that have come up. I think there are two things that seem to stand out as the most important thing. One is to improve the content of the initial service, it is about a variety of measures. It's about the financial framework, but it's probably so much about the content. What do you do when you are in the initial service, preparing for the assignment to be performed, and motivating for further career in Defence? The fact that for a long time you have experienced cuts in the number of training days and exercises in the Army is depressing. It hits both officers, commanders and soldiers – it hits everyone. There is a situation where something needs to be done, both in order to ensure the overall operational capability of the defence, and not least in order to ensure that the initial service becomes relevant, and that it is realistic in view of the tasks to be performed. I think it's also about simple things that can be implemented quickly. I mentioned some of them in my main post. One example is distinctions, which is a simple thing to do, but which means a lot. I ask the Council of State to think carefully about whether there is something that you can do quite immediately, and that does not cost much money. Then we're going to be more than willing to take the discussions when that time comes, about how to improve the economic conditions of those who are in the first place. There, the Right has been busy doing something and getting things in place, but it is important that we also discuss what doesn't necessarily cost so much money, and that can be done quickly, but that can have great effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e569	Once again, I would like to thank the inter-pellant and thank you for the debate. I have carefully recorded recordings that have come along, and note with joy how the interpellant now also finally points out that building the status and reputation of the first-time service is so much about content in the balance between how much emphasis one should put on economics for the individual, and other things. These things are connected. And the feedback that comes from the soldiers themselves shows that there is a broad consensus that content is important. Pleasure soldiers are what over time builds the best reputation and raises the status, as I said. I would also like to continue the good cooperation with the Trustee System. And if there are measures that can be implemented quickly in the course of the process, I am of course prepared to consider it. Several good actions have already been taken since the long-term review. Of course, we're going to try to keep going. I think, like the interpellant, that it's important to keep focusing on how we can further develop and strengthen the initial service. It's what, over time, both builds strength around the duty of protection and a broad consensus about it, if we manage to create a good content in the first-time service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e580	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed. There is no voting theme in cases No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-30.ana.ud1090e595	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
