ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e26	The representatives of Jørund Rytman, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Gina Knutson Barstad, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Per Arne Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For East-Agder counties: Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth For Finnmark County: Willy Pedersen For the province of Hordaland: Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland For Nord-Trondelag County: Ingvild Kjerkol For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås and Tage Pettersen An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Susanne Bratli from 20 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Second and third alternates of the Nord-Trøndelag counties, Ingvild Kjerkol and Terje Sørvik, are convened to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e105	Terje Sørvik is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e111	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e114	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Arve Kambe, Svein Flätten and myself, I would like to make proposals to reduce access to information in the tax lists and reduce the risk of related crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e119	The representative, Mr Gullvåg, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e122	On behalf of the representatives of Sonja Mandt, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, I allow myself to make proposals to prevent local politicians from taking undue advantage of their own decisions in a local housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e127	The representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e131	On behalf of the undersigned, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Bjørn Lødemel, Trond Helleland, Siri A. Meling, Olemic Thommessen and Lars Myraune, I would like to make a proposal on the rights of use in the general government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e136	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e139	On behalf of the representatives of Frank Bakke-Jensen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Arve Kambe, Gunnar Gundersen, Ingerd Schou, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I am delighted to propose a change of ownership in small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e144	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e147	I would like to make two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e152	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e155	On behalf of the representatives Ulf Leirstein, Anders Anundsen and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to improve the legal security of the taxpayers, and on behalf of the representative Ulf Leirstein and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to ban today's practice of publishing the tax lists, in combination with a system of concession for access to the tax lists, if there is a specific need for information about the individual taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e160	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e163	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Tjäldal, Per Roar Bredvold, Ulf Leirstein and myself, I would like to make proposals to lower the capital requirement for limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e168	And finally, the representative, Mr Träldal, wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e171	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on the abolition of provisions on the pricing of concessional agricultural properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e177	All proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e189	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e198	In the wake of the publication of the State budget, KS, the local authority’s association, stated that it was only in the sense that the municipalities were able to keep their heads above the water with this budget, and many municipalities say that it does little to help with investment grants all the time they do not have enough money to operate hospitals. So you can read in the evening post today that the government today has plans to present a list of their own efforts. To believe the evening post, the government also intends to boast of the care of the elderly, at least to the extent that they think they are on track in terms of full hospital coverage in 2015. At least it may seem unlikely if the Prime Minister intends to use the day today to boast of the elderly when you hear the feedback coming from the municipality of Norway. One of the major challenges to get this to, now and in the future, is about manning. 70,000 women today are involuntarily part-time. In some municipalities in Norway, successful projects have been carried out to help reduce this. Both in Harstad and in Bergen, two completely alternative models have been introduced that have helped more women get full-time work by changing the tour. My question to the Prime Minister is whether this is something that the government will address and try to reach more country-wide agreements, so that even more municipalities can ensure that women who are currently involuntarily employed in part-time jobs can get full-time jobs and thus also help us get more annual work faster in the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e209	I believe it is very important that we develop care and care and care for the elderly in our country. That is the main reason why this government has said that it is more important with communities, with more employees in municipalities than new billions in lower taxes. We have also done so in practice. Therefore, the municipalities have received about 47 billion. NOK extra after we took over, and there have been about 40,000 employees in Norwegian municipalities after we took over the responsibility. There is about five–six times as much growth in the number of employees in Norwegian municipalities under this government as under the previous government, supported by the Progress Party. Many of the annual works have come into care and are an expression of a step-by-step step-by-step development of welfare services in Norway. We have also presented a separate plan for stepping up both annual work and places in the care of the elderly. We have put forward a plan for dementia treatment, and we are also following that step by step. This does not mean that we are satisfied with the state of Norwegian care for the elderly, on the contrary. We believe that there is still a lot to be done, and that is why we grant more money and implement several measures to ensure that more people can work full-time by those who want it. The amount of involuntary part-time has fallen significantly under this government, from around 6 p.m. of those who work part-time, to about 4 pst. of those who work part-time. Most of those who work part-time do because they want to, but some do because they don't get full-time work. We have also succeeded in reducing the amount of involuntary part-time. In the 2011 budget, we have allocated 25 million. kr to different pilot projects to support municipalities that want to test new ways to organise this, so that less involuntary part-time and better use of resources can be made. I would then like to welcome local initiatives and local proposals, and we have money for that on the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e222	It is therefore a fact that 70,000 women work involuntary part-time, mainly in the health and care professions. It is clear that if several of these come into full-time employment, it means a total of a considerable number of years' work to a sector that screams for more than one hand. When the best results to reduce involuntary part-time have been negotiated locally, when it has produced good results, and at the same time it is felt that the more central trade union leaders have protested against this, is my challenge to the Prime Minister again: Will he take an initiative to call the parties centrally to try to find a solution to this problem? Last week we heard a debate between UNIO leader Anders Folkestad and KS, where they stood in exactly the same trench that they've been doing for years on the question of solving involuntary part-time. This is solved in private business, where tours and shifts are quite common. That's exactly what men are talking about, but they're in 100 pst. position. It should then also be possible to solve it in public health Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e231	I am busy doing something about involuntary part-time. It is an area where it is important to do something for the sake of those who work involuntarily reduced time and who want to work full time or at least in higher job breaks. But, not least, it is important for all those who can get better care and care services, where there is a lot of involuntary part-time. That's why I'm proud, but not satisfied. I am proud that we have had a severe reduction in the amount of involuntary part-time during this government. I am pleased that we have allocated our own money in the 2011 budget just for dialogue with the parties, with the municipalities on how we can better organise this. Then we're open to different ideas. But I'm not satisfied because we're still not in the goal. I think dialogue with the parties is the key, and that dialogue we have started. What we are now doing with pilot projects is a result of the dialogue on how to reduce involuntary part-time. The most important thing we do for us to have fewer people who are part-time unemployed is to keep order in the Norwegian economy, and it works with the government every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e238	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e241	In the summer, we saw that the applicant figures, among others. until the training of a nurse went down. One of the reasons they have fallen in recent years is that it was difficult for many people around the municipality to get a full-time job. They did not get a job large enough to allow it to live off. They chose to take other courses to get other jobs. The Prime Minister is very proud that 25 million have been spent in the State budget. kr to projects to reduce involuntary part-time. There are 70,000 people outside who want a bigger position. The $25 million. kr gives initially 82 pieces. a yearly opportunity to receive an increase from 50 pst. to 100 pst. There can be nothing that the Prime Minister is very pleased with and proud of. Does the Prime Minister wish to change the law so that local approval agreements can be obtained and the Labour Inspectorate can make the local approval agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e248	I think it's a misunderstanding if the representative thinks they're the $25 million. kr should be used – what we say – to strengthen the local economy so that we can employ more people on a full-time basis. That's 47 billion. SEK to enable people to hire more people in Norwegian municipalities on a full-time basis, and they have employed many more on a full-time basis: there are about 40,000 more annual jobs and 70,000 more employees in total, and many on a full-time basis. The $25 million. kr should go to two things. One is to look at pilot projects, look at new ways to organise this around the municipalities, and the other is to provide training, qualification, to help people into full-time positions. The amount of involuntary part-time is still too high, but there is a significant decrease during this government. This is due to many things, but one important reason is that we have significantly strengthened the municipal economy, so that municipalities have been able to afford to hire more. In addition, we have now equated shifts and turns. That's what this government did with its own bill, and we've also negotiated collective agreements that adapt to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e258	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e261	This issue is not only about involuntary part-time, it is also about new tour arrangements that can improve the quality of services – that children in child protection should not deal with many different adults during a weekend, that older people should not have a dozen different people coming home to provide them with the care and care they need. This reduces the use of coercion, increases the quality, and many local initiatives also provide satisfied users, and provide satisfied employees. The problem is that the legislation that this government stands for in the Working Environment Act hinders this local flexibility. As the rapporteur of the Workers' Party in Skien says, 'The Board of Directors seems to be an obstacle to schemes that allow more people to have full-time jobs in the health sector'. Will the government support the Right proposal to remove the central provisions, so that this becomes a question that can be resolved between local politicians and the employees of the municipality, for the benefit of those who receive services in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e271	So, first of all, we've done a lot in this area, and it's significantly less with job breaks now than it was under the previous government. Secondly, we need to do more, and that is why we are launching pilot projects, different pilot actions, in the municipalities. Thirdly, I think the following is important: we have a long and good experience in Norway that these things pay off in dialogue with the social partners. If we add up to confrontation, we get time to less. That is why we now have a good dialogue with the social partners about how we can achieve better solutions, both for employees and for users – further improvements in relation to what has already been achieved in this area. I think we should have an open mind, an open mind, and consider different proposals. We have also announced our own big message about the working environment, where this will be a natural topic to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e276	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e279	Many initially well-motivated young people entering higher education fall away. In the field of health, half opt for education after two years. In 2010, only 1,400 of the 2,800 who take the health profession have applied for a place of study. In this case, a record number of applicants for health care and health care are of little help. Students argue that the guarantee of fixed-term full-time positions is important. It is also clear that low pay, a lot of part time and low status are also part of the explanation. In 2008, the average employment rate for auxiliary workers and carers was 77 pst. Will the Prime Minister listen to the students and go in to ensure that newly educated health and care groups are entitled to 100 pst. position?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e286	Once again, the most important answer is to provide more jobs in care and care, and the government has done so, and the government has to do even more of that. So there have been 16,000 more annual jobs in care after we took over. It's a lot, it's more than before, but we want more, and so we increase the allocation to the municipalities and add up to further escalation. And the amount of involuntary part-time, i.e. those who are part-time unemployed, has fallen. And once again, we're proud of the effort, but we're not satisfied with the results, and we're going to keep working. So the most important measure to be able to offer newly educated jobs is to get more jobs, and that is what we are doing. We have lower leave, and more people in care and care than ever before in Norway. In addition, we have introduced a legislative provision from 2006 which implies that those with part-time jobs should have a right of priority for full-time jobs. Now let's think about the experience of that, plus the pilot projects that we're now financing with $25 million. kr around the municipalities to contribute to more full-time jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e295	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e298	Several of the reforms of the Stoltenberg government are running into the sand. In the last period, we saw that the regional reform, which was intended to give us strong regions, ended up with a far yawning and cosmetic change. During this period, the interaction reform is the challenge, a reform that was sold in by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – with almost awakening meetings around the country – is becoming a shadow of itself. Interaction reform is important, as it should ensure that child protection children, drug users, mentally ill, elderly and caregivers do not have to be throwballs in the system but should receive a better offer. Now it also seems that that reform can flow into the sand because the system becomes more important than the users. On Monday, the Prime Minister and an elderly lady sat in the hand and told me that more people should be treated in hospital homes and fewer should be treated in hospitals. What the Prime Minister did not say is that many municipalities lack resources, skills and strength to provide better welfare for their citizens. This was confirmed today in the NRC by both the health director and the education director, who are very clear that today’s municipal structure prevents better welfare provision for the population. We have heard from the Center Party that it is the municipal structure of the last century that will govern the well-being of our inhabitants of this century. That means it's the inhabitants who have to adapt to the system. My question to the Prime Minister is, Where does the Prime Minister stand on this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e307	Prime Minister Stoltenberg is standing there, and is now given the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e310	Yes, and more than that: I am safely planted on the Soria Moria declaration. It says all that – what to say – is worth standing on. And it says that we are now volunteering in terms of community reunification, as the previous government did. There's something about the tone drop from the Right that's kind of eye-catching, as if this was kind of the answer to all the difficult questions. Then it's strange they didn't do anything in the years they put themselves in government. We have a debate within the Labour Party on how to formulate ourselves in the run-up to the 2013 Grand Prix, and then we will come back to the question of whether we should have other formulations relating to municipal mergers. I think you should also have an open look at the municipal structure. We have encouraged and appealed to volunteering in the area of community reunification, but I'm a little warning against believing that that's the answer to all the questions. Just to compare some dimensions here: what we get through the Pension Reform is estimated to be about 3 pst. of the national product – savings, increased value creation. It's about 60 billion. kr. But then the Central Statistical Bureau has estimated that with nearly half the number of municipalities it will be about 2-3 billion. NOK, so there's something about getting the proportions out. Without having looked carefully at the Agency's calculations, there's something about the proportions of what you think you're saving with different reforms. The major reform that this government has implemented, in close dialogue with the Stortinget, has been the Pension Reform. We are now implementing a new major reform called the Cooperation Reform. But there's a reform where we put new leads into the system, by adding financial responsibility for the municipalities for pre-treated patients. For years, it has been said that patients who have been treated are going out of hospital. We do something about it by spending money, so that it is profitable for municipalities to take pre-treated patients to the municipalities, home care, home care, primary health care or nursing homes, depending on what kind of patients we talk about, corresponding co-financing responsibility for the treatment of patients, and a lot of closer cooperation. This is what we're doing. We are also going to implement a fine reform of interaction, as we have done in many other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e321	I think the Prime Minister misunderstands if he thinks this is primarily about saving money. It's about giving our citizens a better service. It's about babysitting, it's about mental illness, it's about drug users, and it's about the elderly. It's not just the right that says you have to see the system, the municipal structure, in the context of the new reforms. The education director and health director were clear at the NRK today. LO and Unio have said exactly the same thing. They have rejected what the Stoltenberg government has recorded as a possible fourth level of government, a co-municipality, and said that it is not the answer to the challenges we are now facing. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Progressive Party have made a number of proposals to improve the cooperation reform. We got a cold shoulder from the Stoltenberg government. The question now is whether Stoltenberg will be open to look at, together with Right and other parties, a municipal reform to define the welfare of our citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e328	First, in terms of numbers, my point is really just to emphasize that the pension reform is the one that without comparison provides the greatest boost to the economic space to finance well-being here in the country, and much, much bigger than all the other reforms we've been working on in recent years. When it comes to the figures for winnings in municipal mergers, I make a reservation about them, because I've read them in the newspapers. Instead, we get back to more detailed calculations of it when we get proper numbers on it. I understand that it is also about quality, and what we have put forward in relation to the cooperation reform is that the municipalities can cooperate. We see that many small municipalities get very good solutions, for example. on health. Some of the things we want more of are local medical centers, so people don't have to be sent long roads to hospitals, but can be treated near where they live. I've been to the Fernes. There are several small municipalities that have merged on a local medical centre – a fantastic offer that you don't have to travel to Lillehammer. Alta and Stjørdal have the same thing. Many municipalities join forces and create local medical centers. There you can get dialysis, you can get cell poison, you can get hospital treatment in a safe and safe way without going far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e337	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e341	The Prime Minister says that he's safely planted on Soria Moria, and that they're volunteering for community reunification. Yeah, does the government really do that? What are the measures that stimulate municipalities to merge into the system we have today? A new income system was just put in place for municipalities, where the smallest municipalities come out better, strengthening the municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. The rapporteur in Hof now says that if they want to join a neighbouring municipality, they will lose $8 million. kr. What kind of incentives is what the government has put in place to give its citizens a decent and qualitatively good offer? KS has unanimously said no to the government's columbi eggs about joint municipal councils, and then the question is to the Prime Minister: does the government have any policy for this at all, or has the central party vetoed out this enlargement period in terms of municipal changes and municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e350	This government's policy with regard to municipal mergers is to be confused with the policy of the previous government, and that is that we add up to volunteering. It is because we agree that the best thing is that the municipalities themselves find out, locally anchored, what is the best municipal structure. Then there is a discussion also in the Workers' Party if stronger instruments are needed. We'll have to decide when we adopt our program for the next growing-up period. In addition, if there are large gains in municipal mergers, not least in terms of services and quality, one must also believe that it is seen locally in relation to the gains that residents of municipalities can get by joining forces. In addition, I believe that in the case of municipal structure, it does not apply to the municipal structure itself, but if you want to address it, for example. school structure – the kind of thing. That is where the big and difficult decisions lie, and as many municipalities struggle with whether they are large or small today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e357	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e360	The main reason why we have so many small municipalities today is that we have an income system that rewards small municipalities to be inappropriately small. The municipal committee was recently in Nord-Trøndelag, where we were informed that the municipalities of Mosvik, with 850 inhabitants, and India, with 5,900 inhabitants, are planning to merge. The problem here is that if these municipalities join together, they will have a reduced income of 14 million. kr per year. The councillor had calculated that the present value of such a loss of income over 40 years would be 145 million. kr. Then my question is: does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable for the inhabitants of Moscow and India to have to pay 145 million. kr to the rich state to get permission to join together?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e367	I don't know those figures, but what we've put into the income system for the municipalities is that municipalities that merge, firstly get support for investigations and the process itself, and secondly a breakdown grant, which is a compensation to merged municipalities for the reduction of the framework grant as a result of municipal mergers. It is a grant that just compensates for the reduction in the basic grant because there are two smaller municipalities that become one larger municipality. With regard to the income system we have now produced, it is based on objective cost keys and has nothing to do with large or small municipalities. It's based on objective cost keys that I don't think we should politicize in terms of local government revenues and cost compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e374	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e377	There seems to be a lot of work to do with the Interaction Reform. I have a question about the local hospital structure. There is a huge insecurity around our country – among the population, among politicians. You just don't know who controls the processes. There are proposals for the closure and closure of hospitals and departments. One after another, tasks are removed from the local hospitals. Yesterday we read in the Nations that ‘the government’s draft new health plan makes it natural to look at all decommissioning matters again’. That's what Central Party leader Liv Signe Navarsette said yesterday. She went on to say, ‘I believe that what is said about distance, geography and accessibility as criteria means that the proposals that are already on the table need to be looked at with new eyes and that the new criteria need to be taken more into account.’ My question is whether it means that all ongoing administratively controlled local hospital processes are now stopped pending these new criteria to be taken into account and pending the hearing. Well, in that case, it's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e391	The government's policy in this area is determined and based on Soria Moria. It says – and we believe so – that no local hospital should be closed. But we're open, and we think it's necessary, to look at the division of work, the division of responsibilities, between different hospitals. There are different processes in different places, and it is handled by the different health businesses. However, if health companies promote proposals that are contrary to government policy, the government can intervene – and then we will intervene. The system we have today is that health businesses take a decision on structure, but make decisions or make decisions that are contrary to what the government believes to be right, so the government intervenes. And health businesses know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e396	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e399	I have noticed that the Prime Minister, when he answers questions about the care of the elderly today, quotes Göran Persson's old slogan that he is proud, but not satisfied. I don't want to remind the Prime Minister that Göran Persson lost the election on that slogan. I'm going to come to a case where the Christian People's Party was both proud and satisfied, namely when we signed an agreement with the government to carry out our main election campaign from 2007, the dignity guarantee – the requirement that older people should have the right to a place, should have the right to worthy care, quality, in terms of both the medical, the care and the cultural and spiritual aspects of care. We agreed – then Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen expressed it this way: this is to cost money, and the municipalities are to be compensated. It was also written in the proposal that was sent to the hearing. That is why we were very surprised, to say it mildly, when on Monday we read the proposal for a new municipal health and care law, where the guarantee of dignity, the claim and the rights to a place and a decent care, has continued as we agreed, but where it suddenly says that this is in accordance with the applicable law, so this is not going to cost any money, and the municipalities are not going to get anything extra. I expect this to be a mistake, because I know the Prime Minister as a very punish man, and when five parties here in the staging room have an agreement that this is a change in the legal situation, it is going to cost money, and the municipalities are going to have it compensated, then I expect that when this regulation and the law change comes into force on 1 January 2011, i.e. in a few months' time, the money for the municipalities is on the table. I ask the Prime Minister to confirm that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e410	Firstly, it is quite right, as the representative Høybråten says, that I have stolen this with pride, but not satisfaction, from Göran Persson. I steal more from him, we stole the whole slogan "Everybody's Going With" from Swedish social democrats. The lost choice of that, we have won two choices on the same slogan and the same message and have intended to continue stealing from Swedish social democrats. So to the matter. It is true that we have an agreement on worthy care for the elderly, on the guarantee of dignity. We're going to prescribe a prescription before Christmas that ensures it. I will give all honor to the Christian People's Party and the Dagfinn High and Left because they have pressed and participated in an important conciliation, the conciliation of the elders, and the follow-up to it with the guarantee of dignity. That regulation will be laid down, and there we will say more clearly than ever before what is meant by a decent and sound care for the elderly. There is no such overall overview today; it will be grouped in one regulation and be clear and clear. It itself has a value. There will be such things as that everyone has a right and proper form of living according to the individual's needs, a varied and adequate diet, adapted help at meals, maximum access and the possibility of a normal life with normal daily rhythm and getting out, necessary help for personal hygiene, etc. When this is going to be in a regulation, it's because we saw examples of these minimum constraints not being fulfilled. And then the Christian People's Party became alarmed and we worried. That is why there is a rule in which this is established. This implies that municipalities have to spend money. Therefore, there has been more money in the free revenues. In addition, funds should be provided for the development of health and nursing homes and more jobs in the coming years. It is going to cost money to ensure a good and dignified care for the elderly in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e424	The fact that the Prime Minister steals from others to run election campaigns also has Christian People's Party experience. In the 2009 election campaign, the Prime Minister sent a letter to all pensioners in which he boasted of the dignity guarantee to be implemented and failed to mention the copyright of the proposal. That's what we let go of. I'm not going to do any larger number of it now, except to say that I understand that this is a methodology we have to expect from the Prime Minister's party in the future. Back to the question, which I felt I was not getting a clear answer to. It is therefore stated in the document that the Prime Minister himself participated in and presented on Monday that the proposal – as regards the retention of the right to the guarantee of dignity – will not ‘bring economic consequences’. [[...]] I repeat the question: Is there a misunderstanding? Will the Prime Minister ensure that when the regulation he now announces is adopted before Christmas, and which will enter into force on 1 January, will the municipalities be compensated, as we have agreed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e431	I still want to be inspired – I think it's a better word than steal – by many different politicians in the country and abroad. I believe that some of the policies are about, are just getting experiences, learning from each other, and then putting forward a policy based on that. The guarantee of dignity is something we have worked out together, and as I believe is an important political craft, in which the Christian People's Party has also played a significant role. With regard to dignity and dignity: a regulation will be laid down. This regulation requires municipalities to spend more money on care for the elderly. They've already done that. And that's what they're going to do in the years that come, because if we're going to ensure all of the most normal daily rhythm, decent living conditions, etc., it doesn't come of itself. That's why we have these other plans, about 12,000 new annual works, about 12,000 new places. Gradually, we will also follow up the dementia plan, to have day-to-day services for dementes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e440	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e443	I'm quite shocked, upset. It's not only the Christian People's Party here that leads behind the light – I'd say so strongly – but also the voters. I quote the Prime Minister in the election campaign: ‘We will introduce a guarantee of dignity which strengthens the rights of the elderly and which enhances the quality of care for the elderly.’ [[...]] In the consultation draft that the Christian People's Party was allowed to participate in and design together with the then Minister of Health and Care Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, it is black and white that the municipalities should be compensated for the expenses. Today, it is stated in a consultation note that this will not ‘bring financial consequences’ for municipalities. [[...]] Would it not have consequences for municipalities to increase quality and give rights to the elderly? Of course it's going to cost a lot of money. I ask again: does the government really not want to follow the new regulation? How, then, are we going to get more quality in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e453	There's been more money, and there's going to be more money. There is money for different purposes and for different parts of the care for the elderly. There will be more than one place to spend money, and there will be more than one year's worth of money. We have also announced that there will be money – but they will not come at this time, they will come later – to follow up the daily provision for demente. It is stated both in the Soria Moria Declaration and in the earlier settlement. All this will cost, all this will require money. In addition, we get a clarification of the rights of the elderly by giving us for the first time a provision on the requirement of a worthy care for the elderly. It comes under the Patient Rights Act and new municipal health and care laws. In order to clarify the quality of care for the elderly, we need to make a regulation clarifying this – proper living, normal daily rhythm, varied diets, etc. Just because we know this is important, we're doing something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e460	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e463	The Prime Minister has argued that the government should ensure a sick home for everyone who needs it. We see that the municipalities, on a large scale, dispose of nursing homes and turn them into nursing homes. We have now received a new health plan and a new health law for consultation, without any proposal for the right to a health home. My concrete questions to the Prime Minister will then be: How many net full-value hospitals must be built by 2015 in order for the Prime Minister to be able to fulfill his promises and secure all those who need it, a sick home place? What is the reason why the government will not legislate on the right to health care, so that all those in need can have proper care and care at the best and most effective level of care – when the need arises?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e468	What we're doing is we're sending out a proposal to legitimize the right to a worthy care for the elderly. We do that in two laws, in the Patient Rights Act and in the new Municipal Health and Care Act. And then you can ask, what is worthy care for the elderly? Yes, it is specified in a regulation. I can repeat it, it's e.g. the proper living conditions must be adapted to the needs of the individual and to the need for a varied and adequate diet. There are many other very precise demands for what a worthy care for the elderly is. Then we improve and clarify the appeal procedure. If you feel that you are not receiving a worthy care for the elderly, you should have a clearer and easier access to justice. Now there are three different complaints systems. We're going to have a complaint system. So we must ensure the care of everyone, whether in a nursing home, in nursing homes or for example. in the home service. And it should be in law and order that you can complain about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e477	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e480	During the discussion of the Cooperation Reform, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party agreed to a compromise with the Government, as we have the tradition of major, important issues. We agreed on 42 concrete measures to improve the reform. But even though the government believes that healthcare should interact more, it would not interact with the opposition to get this in place – it actually showed us a cold shoulder. With the proposals that were launched on Monday, the government makes a settlement even more difficult. The right proposed a level of competence for the employees of municipalities to enable them to perform more tasks. The government is most concerned with counting hands and forgetting that good care is also about quality and competence. We proposed to recruit dedicated hospital doctors through good pay and skills measures, while the government is proposing to leave the sickest elderly to the most inexperienced doctors, namely the turnaround candidates. Is the Prime Minister familiar with and proud of being the first to push through a health reform in recent times without broad support in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e489	After all, the proposal has not yet been promoted for the Stortinget – we are bringing the bill to spring. We now have a broad consultation asking for input and comments – that is the way we do things in Norway. We send things to the hearing, so many different people express themselves – here we have actually submitted to an online consultation on the health and care plan – and then we will promote our proposal for the Storting. There we will, among other things: emphasising competences – and we have already placed a high emphasis on competences in, among others. The follow-up to what we do in health and care. It's about getting more educated – that's more skilled into the care and care sector – it's about increasing educational capacity, and it's not least that we've had a significant improvement in medical coverage at home. So competence we need. We need warm hands and wise heads in care and care, and we work for both.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e495	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e498	The representative of the Højbråten has explained in a good way what the guarantee of dignity is to be guaranteed. I share the Højbråten's wish that older people should be guaranteed a minimum standard in terms of housing, rehabilitation, medical follow-up, etc. However, in order to offer better care services to older people across the country, more skills and more professionals are required. The Prime Minister warns against believing too much in the merger. With respect to reporting: These questions are so important that the Prime Minister should not reject them by referring to what the previous government did and did not do, as he replied to the Sanner representative. This reduces the reputation of policy. We need to be able to act differently today than to look at what may have happened 5–10–15–20 years ago. The question is: does the Prime Minister think it is just as easy to build the competences of the elderly with today's 431 municipalities, or does the Prime Minister of the Left share the view that municipalities need to grow and become more robust in order to provide citizens with better services and quality, as the guarantee of dignity promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e505	What is clear, at least, is that this government, in cooperation with all its municipalities, has succeeded in strengthening the competence and quality of care in Norway over recent years. 16 000 new annual works — a large proportion of vocational training, several with both health and social education — and a clear increase in medical coverage in hospitals. All of this is a clear expression of increased competence in the care sector in Norway. Secondly, we have seen – and we want more of that through the cooperation reform – that many municipalities cooperate. Not least, we are very pleased that several municipalities – and now we will also facilitate economic cooperation – cooperate on local medical centres, where you can get an offer that lies somewhere between hospitals and hospitals. It will relieve hospitals, but above all it will provide a better offer for the individual patient. They can get an offer closer to home, maybe live at home to a greater extent, and thus get a better quality offer than they get today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e512	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e515	I intend to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister on the main role of the new book entitled "Climate Paradox", and then I thought I would ask for the climate agreement. For 2008, a settlement was reached here in the United Kingdom with the Left, Right and Christian People's Party, in which we supported actions in both renewable energy, research and technology development, and in the transport sector to reduce climate change emissions. Then we see that the government budget for 2011 is adding up to 58 million. tonnes of CO2 in 2020. That's an increase of 13 pst. in relation to today's level, so we are now on a rough course towards a breach of what was agreed here in the house. I'll give you some examples. In terms of assistance: the cuts in measures against deforestation, climate action, in developing countries should not exceed the aid rate. Research shows that in 2011, appropriations in this area have fallen by 37.7 million. kr. Yesterday, in the hearing of the Education Committee, the Research Council regretted that the level built up by the Climate Change Agreement has not been maintained and that the expectations created by the Agreement have not been met. We believe this in the Left is dangerous near a breach of the climate agreement. So my question to the Prime Minister is simply: what will the Prime Minister do to get the 2011 government budget to stick with the agreement he made with the Left and other parties in this room in the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e525	Firstly, I would like to thank you for your congratulations. The Climate Paradox is a readable book. Even I thought it was interesting to read what I had said, and agreed with each word – except for the questions, maybe. But at least it is an expression of a desire to say something coherent and holistic about one of the greatest challenges of our time, namely the climate problem, in the context of another of the greatest challenges of our time, namely the problem of poverty – to talk about it in the context, as today's overall biggest challenge: poverty and climate. With regard to the figures in the national budget, what is being presented there is emissions trajectory, based on unchanged policies — that is the whole point of having a reference path. We also had that in the 2007 national budget, on which the climate agreement is based – and then action is taken in relation to it. So providing reference paths based on unchanged policies is not the same thing as saying that's what's going to happen, but that's what's going to happen if you don't do anything – and the government's going to do something. Secondly, with all due respect for those who make these paths, it is difficult to create safe paths. Right now, we have significantly lower emissions than we expected in both 2008 and 2009 – perhaps also in 2010 – because we have had an economic downturn, so that we are very good at following our Kyoto targets and also over-achieving them with 10 pst. Then we are concerned that the climate agreement has led to increased research and increased appropriations for Transnova. The exact figures for the Ministry of Transport have not I here now, but there has at least been an overall increase in climate research by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e537	I have to interpret the Prime Minister so that he is not familiar with the cuts made in his own budget. The numbers I'm dealing with are the numbers of the Research Council, which shows a cut of 37.7 million. kr for all core areas of the climate agreement. So I want to repeat my question: maybe the Prime Minister will intervene and see if he gets anything done with the cuts that have been put into the budget in the areas we agreed that we should bet on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e542	We have an ambitious budget. We spend a lot of time on a lot of different climates in this budget. Among other things, we are increasing. the appropriations for Transnova. We are increasing significantly the rail effort. We've been doing that for years. There have also been increases in appropriations for different types of climate research. That's what I can say about this budget now – now it's in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e547	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e550	What the Prime Minister instead answered my question, I don't know, it wasn't at least what I was asking about. However, I learn a lot about question-answering techniques as an alternate here at Stortinget. I'll take that further in my work. At least I'm trying again on this new theme. The government has just completed Climate Change 2020. The left had hoped that some of the proposals would be implemented already in the 2011 state budget. However, we record that the government has stated that it will come back with proposals for action in its own climate notification in the autumn of 2011. My question to the Prime Minister is thus very simple: Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the Stortinget will receive a climate report in autumn 2011? And: Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the notification contains at least as good national climate targets as was agreed in the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e557	First, what I answered the previous question. I replied that small municipalities can also provide good health services, and that the interaction reform is not dependent on a change in the municipal structure. Then you might want to have a debate on the municipal structure, but the interaction reform, as we are now putting it up, is fully feasible to implement without a dramatic change in the municipal structure, and I showed you examples of it. So to the question: I rarely use the word ‘guarantors’, but we have submitted and are working on providing a big message on the follow-up to the Climate Action in 2011. I can't see any reason why we won't. There we will follow both the analyses in the Climate Action Programme, but also follow up on the previous climate communication. Then I want to stress that it is not that because if we are now waiting for a big message, we are not doing anything. We have more than enough to do with regard to the follow-up to various climate action already adopted. That is why we are increasing efforts for renewable energy, and therefore we are focusing on public transport and many other important measures to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e567	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e570	Climate change, to which the Prime Minister refers, is a document showing that climate change cannot be achieved without a waste of large sums of money on costly symbolic projects with no special effect. The reference path to which the Prime Minister refers is not ‘business as usual’ without any action. In fact, the reference track assumes that both Mongstad and Kårstø are to be cleaned by 2020. At the same time, Gassnova, which the government believes is the best in the world to estimate CO2 clean technologies, has said that one should not develop two parallel full-scale CO2 clean-up projects. Ergo: One should first build Mongstad, and if it works, one should build on Kårstø. That means that Kårstø can clean in 2022 at the earliest. I think that is a sensible resource use to be sure that we get the most back for the money – it is also an approach that the Prime Minister usually has. But in this case he has been bound by the SV in Soria Moria, where all the good things are laid down, according to the Prime Minister himself, to implement Kårstø cost what it costs. Will the Prime Minister break through such a ‘gridlock’ and ensure that Kårstø is shrank until Mongstad technology works, even if this means that the climate agreement is not implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e585	First only to what the reference path is and is not: the reference path is a path where emissions are calculated based on the measures adopted — not on new measures. There is, as the representative says, both Kårstø and Mongstad put in by 2020. Then, of course, it is possible, in principle, to come up with both new measures, or, if necessary, to adjust old measures – as you keep doing, and things are happening in the future towards 2020, both positives and negatives. But you have to have one stop, and that's the reference path. In the case of Kårstø, we've been waiting to go on with it because we've now got the new numbers and the new calculations. And then we go on with Mongstad. We're doing that the way we've notified the Storting, in two steps. I believe that we get a very good project at step 1 at Mongstad, where we get a world-leading technology center, where we can maybe, as the only place in the world, develop and test different technologies, look at strengths and weaknesses, on different types of waste gases – also what is relevant to coal power. So we're going to go further by step 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e594	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e597	The climate agreement has clear commitments to increase the use of biofuels. Climate change plans biofuels as one of the most important socio-economic measures that we can take. The right is pleased that the announced tax increase on biofuels did not enter the State budget for 2011, but has a question as to whether the last year’s argument for tax increase is no longer relevant. Will the Prime Minister consider removing the entire fee? Last year's argument was based on the principle of equal charges for the use of roads irrespective of fuel. I guess it's hard for the Prime Minister just to be half-prime on this issue. Will the Prime Minister support the Right proposal to remove the tax on biofuels?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e604	In the climate agreement, some very basic principles have been established, and one of the basic principles, of which the Right is also a very strong supporter, is that the polluter should pay. This means that basically you don't have to subsidize what you like, but make sure that the polluter pays for what you don't like. Norwegian environmental policies have been fundamental for many years, and this has meant that we have a good environmental policy compared to many other countries. Instead of using the community's money to subsidize the polluter, the polluter himself has to pay. The reason why we do not want to make the cheaper “to drive” car traffic is that it leads to many types of pollution and environmental problems. If you want biofuels, I think it's more right to go forward like the government has done, that's to increase the mixing order. We've done that, and we've also announced further increase. Then we get increased use of biofuels without the community having to pay for it with money else we can spend on research, schools, roads, kindergartens and many other sensible things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e609	Then we go to the last follow-up question – Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e612	The climate agreement is based on some assumptions. Two of those assumptions were that we were going to clean Kårstø and Mongstad. From that we're going to cut 12-14 million tonnes of CO2 by 2020. Although the Prime Minister rarely offers guarantees, my question is whether he can guarantee that we have been cleansed of Kårstø by 2020, and we have been cleansed of Mongstad. If the Prime Minister cannot give that guarantee, can he then point to the national measures that the government intends to take, because in reply to Trine Skei Grande, he says that the government intends to do something? What measures does he intend to take that have a framework of approximately 3 million tonnes of CO2?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e625	This government is doing a great deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions both in Norway and abroad. It's important that we do things at home, but at the same time we see that what we're doing as real monks, which give great reductions, is, among other things, what we're doing as real monks. the measures we finance, not least in developing countries, which have a double impact. There are many tonnes in decline and, in addition, there is confidence in including the developing countries in an agreement, and we are totally dependent on bringing the developing countries with them if we are to have large enough reductions. What we do at home is a significant effort on public transport, a significant effort on energy efficiency improvement, new building regulations that will reduce energy use in construction. We also use carbon pricing, environmental taxes, among others. on a car, which reduces emissions per kilometer driven, and we extend the use of the EU ETS. The EU ETS is the measure leading to the greatest reductions, and from next year we will extend it to several sectors in Norway. This leads to a reduction in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e632	Then we go to the next main question, from the representative Per Sandberg. The President indicates that we have now passed the time when we usually don't get to any more main questions. We spent a lot of time at the beginning of today's meeting, and the president intends to get away with two more main questions, from Per Sandberg's representative and Bent Höie's representative. But the President then assumes that the number of follow-up questions is limited to one, in addition to the questioner's own supplementary questions, so that we can ask both of the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e637	The Prime Minister is not very happy with giving guarantees, and that is understandable when you know that you have problems with achieving your goals. But others in the government are good at giving guarantees. Among other things, the Minister of Justice has been very good in the last year to guarantee and promise that all graduate students at the Police College will get a job. Yes, he has even gone so far as to promise and guarantee that 90 pst. should have a job at the moment they left school. The situation now is that at least it has not been achieved. The Minister of Justice has said that we don't train people at the Police College to get out of work outside the police. Now the situation is that 60 of the police students who went out this year have found another job. It is still the case that 100 of the departure students this year have no job, approx. 100 have received a short vicariate, i.e. not a regular job, and approx. 100 have got a job. So the next year's budget says it's budgeted with a full year's impact so that all the departure students in 2010 will get a job. So my simple question – initially – to the Prime Minister is: Are these guarantees valid both from the Minister of Justice, and also from the Police Director, that all the graduating students from the Police College in 2010 will get a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e645	I continue to ensure that I am very careful to provide guarantees. But I am in favour of the first behind what is in the budget, and secondly, I can also refer to the following, namely that we have allocated more money to the police, and we have arranged for more of them to be employed by the police. It makes us have a very good growth. We've almost doubled the number of admissions to high school, and we've also had a very good growth in the number of employees. The last numbers we have are the FAD's numbers over the number of annual works. From 1 March 2009 to 1 March 2010, which is the most recent official figures available, the figures show that there has been an increase in the number of annual works of 754. It's also a little bit over the top of the number of newly educated people. So the number of annual works has increased by 754 in the last year. In addition, 230 new annual works have been created as a result of the new working time regulations to work one more hour. This means that we are talking about around 1000 new annual works in total – taking into account the working time regulations. It's a formidable increase. That means we're already about halfway to the target that someone has set for 2000 new annual works by 2015 or 2020, seen a little differently. But at least that means that there has been a significant increase in the efforts of the police, and many have been employed there, of course also by those who are newly educated. Then we're adding up to further escalation in 2011, both in terms of the continuation of the high level at the Police College, more money, bigger budgets and more employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e650	I record that the Prime Minister does not answer the question here either. Now it is the case that all graduate students from the Police College have received a personal interview and cancelled or confirmed whether they have received a job — hence the figures. So it's 100 that's still out of work. 60 have found work in another work and can then perhaps be considered lost to the police, because it is difficult to get them back. That's about it. 100 employees in short vicariate, which is very uncertain. I would like the Prime Minister to have been as concrete as the Minister of Justice and said that these students should in any case be guaranteed jobs, because it is not clear from the 2011 budget, a budget that the police themselves and the Norwegian Police Department say goes with about. One hundred million. kr i minus. There are 200 vacancies around the police districts. Can the Prime Minister guarantee and ensure that there are resources so that these 200 posts are filled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e661	We have had a lot of discussion about the number of employees in the police during many question hours. There's an official statistic, which is probably a few months old, but it's the most recent one we have, and it's from March 1, 2010. It shows that there have been 754 more annual works from 2009 to 2010. It only confirms the image that every year during this government there have been several years of police work. In addition, we have picked up a lot with new working time regulations in the police department. There is a significantly better development in the number of police personnel, now than in very, very many years. There's been a doubling of the admissions at the Police College. The income was then 720 students, which is roughly twice that when we took over. So the number of new year's work in the police is 754. I repeat, and that is also the answer to the question, that I do not guarantee, but I say that we have a sharp increase in the number of posts in the police, which allows newly trained police officers to get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e668	One follow-up question will be raised – Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e671	I will not comment on the Prime Minister's number lineing with annual work. But I want to challenge the Prime Minister a little bit, because he's an economist, and then he's probably also good in mathematics. The increase to the police in 2011 is 547 million. kr. Of this, 378 million is. NOK compensation for wages and salaries. If one then adds the goodwill when one rounds off, get an approx. 170 million. kr. The increased costs for the police in 2011 are 270 million. kr. 170 million. NOK - 270 million. Now, after my simple calculation, kr becomes a minus of 100 million. kr. How can the Prime Minister claim that you can get a job for this year's police students and next year's graduate police students with a deficit of 100 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e678	Every year after we took over, this government has facilitated the growth of the police, partly through increased budgets, partly through more staff, which has been made possible by the increased budgets, and partly through greater admission to the Police College. It is a policy we are pursuing in 2011. All budget appropriations are detailed and detailed in the budget. But we keep escalating the police year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e683	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e686	Recently, there has been a debate on the development of the welfare society. For the Right, it's a goal to transfer power from the system to the individual. People in need of health care or assistance should not hold hands and thank a rigid public system. Today, many people have to arrange their lives according to the municipality's tour plan. Unknown people show up at the door to help them shower. There are many who get dissatisfied because no one can help them to go to work, and many parents never get to be with their children at football, handball or cinema. This is not a worthy situation. Right will give those who need assistance, more power in their own lives. Some are so lucky that they have their own assistant as they control themselves. When the individual controls the help himself, they become the head of their own lives, as everyone else is. Randi Irtun from Tromsø says that user-controlled personal assistant ‘make it possible for me to remain at work. BPA is about being able to live with assistance needs and still have a private life. [[...]] BPA is flexible. [[...]] I can live my life as I will." In other words, the more user-driven assistance system is a release tool. The problem with today's system is that it's the municipalities that decide who can get assistants or other forms of help. That's why many people do not get the freedom that this system gives and that's given up the system. The former municipal minister, Erna Solberg, proposed in 2005 that all those in need of assistance be entitled to the assistance of a personal assistant. This ended in the autumn of 2006, and in the 2009 election campaign, both the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre wrote to the organisations of disabled people that they were in favour of a right-holders’ attachment to this scheme. On Monday it became clear that the government is going away from its promises. The system of user-controlled personal assistant is not legalised. The right is weakened. Why will the government prevent people in need of assistance from being allowed to rule their everyday lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e702	The government believes that user-driven personal assistant is a very important and good tool. It gives the person in need of assistance and assistance greater opportunities to determine what kind of help and at what times, and to adapt it more to the individual. The challenge is that when you have a user-driven personal assistant, there is an effort that can be less or less difficult to do for others. That's what makes us have to find a balance between what is needed by individuals and what is needed by municipalities to make good use of the resources they have. But precisely because we believe that user-driven personal assistants are so important, we have strengthened the municipal economy so that more people have got it. 16,000 new yearwork in the care and care sector until what we call younger users, i.e. users under the age of 67, is very many. Many of them again are user-controlled personal assistants, of whom we have been given the opportunity to hire several of them in the municipalities. There's been a growth of almost 40 pst. in the case of the number of user-controlled personal assistants after that government has taken over. So it shows that we're for it. We have now sent to the hearing a bill that the municipalities should be obliged to offer it. We have not sent to the hearing a bill stating that it should be a right, but an obligation to offer it. But first of all, we have strengthened the offer by about 40 pst. in the last few years and will continue to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e711	In my home municipality, Randaberg, Inge Husmo has received a personal assistant after a long fight against the system. His child says, finally, Dad gets to be a father again. In the argument in the draft consultation, the government states that an individual right-holding will result in multiple users choosing a personal assistant over traditional care services. Such developments will over time increase staffing needs and increase public expenditure – so the government puts the system ahead of people. In today's Newspaper, State Secretary Tone Toften of the Ministry of Health and Welfare says: ‘It is about the rotation and recruitment of employees and about municipal autonomy.’ No, President, this is about people in need of assistance being allowed to be the boss of their own lives and governing their own lives. Why is it that it is the individual municipality that has to decide whether people should be the boss of their own lives? If the Prime Minister thinks this is a good arrangement, why can't he attach it to rights, so that it applies to everyone, not just a few?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e725	I believe that it is the municipalities that have to make an assessment of what kind of offers are best, and how they best set up their resources, so that as much as possible in the municipality gets the best possible offer. But that's also why we've made a growth of almost 40 pst. It is such that this government has made sure that many more people get personal assistance and that the offers get better. So once again, that's what we're actually doing, which is what's crucial. We have increased the offer by about 40 p.m., and we have facilitated a continued increase in the offer of user-controlled personal assistant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e731	One follow-up question will be raised – from the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e734	Today it stands about. 600,000 people in employment before the age of outside the labour force. Many of them are disabled people who could have been in work if they had received the help of an assistant. A study from Econ shows that two out of three users-led personal assistants believe that this assistance made it possible for them to be in work. The Econ report estimates the overall socio-economic value of the increased professional activity of disabled people with user-driven assistants and their families at a level of more than DKK 300000 per disabled person. Moreover, according to the study, BPA leads to more disabled people taking training. This in turn will lead to increased professional activity and further socio-economic gain. Has social economist Stoltenberg been staring blindly at the expenditure side here, or does he see that user-driven assistance is actually a good social investment, because more people can participate in the working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e743	This government is a strong supporter of user-driven personal assistants. We believe that this is a very good and important offer. We have arranged for it to be more of that, not least because it is a more custom offer for the individual user, and because there are clear benefits to it. That is why we have now presented a consultation proposal – not a final legislative proposal, but a consultation proposal – that comes to Stortinget, about an obligation for municipalities to offer it. But more than paragraphs, we've actually done something: a 40 pst. - or a 38 pst. increase in the use of user-driven personal assistants. There is a strong increase, which this government has provided through a strong strengthening of the local economy, and we will continue to strengthen the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e748	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e760	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Culture, this question is moved and answered before Question 11, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 13, 14, 15, 16 and 18, from the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Vigdis Giltun, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Bård Hoksrud and Robert Eriksson respectively to the Minister of Labour, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative of the Minister of Labour, Mr Thommess, has been transferred to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e779	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Technical general education is a unique secondary school provision. Training takes place in cooperation between school and local business and is available at 15 secondary schools throughout the country. After four years, the students achieve double qualifications: both professional letters and study skills with depression in mathematics and physics/chemistry. That this is evident from the diploma is, of course, essential for the students. This is no longer allowed by the Education Directorate. Will the Council of State do anything to amend this unfortunate decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e788	I could really just say yes, I will, and go and sit down again, but let me elaborate the answer a little bit more. What the representative refers to is a four-year training course in technical and general secondary education. It started in the mid-1990s. It's called TAF daily. TAF is a locally composed arrangement that was never part of the official structure of Reform 94 or clarified by the transition from Reform 94 to the Knowledge promise. Following a meeting of representatives of the TAF in the winter 2009–2010, the Ministry of Knowledge found it appropriate to clarify the future status of this offer. In May of this year, we commissioned the Education Directorate to present proposals on how to solve this for the future. The recommendations of the Directorate will be made in November. I aim to ensure that the future conditions for the TAF by the Ministry of Knowledge will be in place during the winter. The future conditions will also include the design of the diploma(s) for the TAF training within the framework of the Knowledge Commitment Code. Until such time as this solution is in place, a diploma must be awarded to those who are already in the process of their TAF training. The first coal this includes is what ended its training in the spring of 2010. For this coal, a dispensation was granted for the printing of a diploma without the subject of ‘body training’. However, the diploma states that training is a three-year course of vocational training and general study competence. I understand that this last one may seem unreasonably strict. I therefore have no objection that the schools, if they want to, issue new testimonies to these students, stating that they have passed a four-year TAF course. The Ministry of Knowledge will contact the Education Directorate in order to resolve this problem. Finally, I would like to stress that this solution applies to those who have started their TAF training before the future solution for this offer is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e806	I'm very pleased with the answer that the Council of State gives here, and not least I think that the students who got hit by -- let's say the missing diploma that didn't tell the whole truth about the education they had completed, will be very happy that it's possible to dissolve in that crowd. In fact, we now have a big discussion about the drop-out in high school. There may be many reasons why vocational training in Norway should be strengthened. The Church, Education and Research Committee was on a study trip to Canada now in the fall, where it was quite obvious that much more effort was made on a stronger vocational training course with significantly longer training courses than what we do in Norway. So, in this case, maybe the TAF model is an interesting model. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether the TAF model can be one of several models that can be assessed for further development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e815	I would like to come back to that very question. Now we have a review of how we're going to fit this into the structure of the Knowledge Lift. But it's a very interesting combination that the four-year-old students get, because they get both study skills and vocational training. It is a major challenge for the future, for those young people who want to choose a profession, to get up the implementation of higher education, especially for the professions, – we have a lot to go on there, and I am working intensively to get it – also because we need an increased recruitment to vocational training. The future labour market is going to be missing many with professional letters if we don't get the status up and increase recruitment to this educational pathway. So I'm working too hard on just these questions and I'm happy for everyone else who engages in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e824	I am very pleased with the views of the Council of State on the TAF and hope that the offer can be maintained within our higher education model, since the Department has asked the Education Directorate to investigate the future of the TAF. Let's hope that the TAF doesn't get lost in that process. As I said, I am very pleased that the Council of State has promised that the students who graduated in spring 2010 will receive a proper diploma.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e831	Doesn't seem like the Council of State needs any additional response to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e834	No, we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e839	It's nice with such mutual joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e846	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The reduction of border barriers and measures to prevent the emergence of new barriers are a priority area of Nordic cooperation. However, experience shows that the different implementation of EU directives in the Nordic countries leads to new border barriers. Are common procedures in place to ensure that different implementations do not create new frontier barriers, and if not, will the Foreign Minister take the initiative to establish such procedures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e855	I would first like to say that, in a broader perspective, EEA cooperation has led to a substantial reduction of barriers and a comprehensive integration between the Nordic countries. I have pointed it out a lot, and I want to repeat it here, that the EEA Agreement is probably the most important Nordic inclusive agreement that has ever been implemented. It is, in fact, a Nordic free trade agreement in addition to being a European agreement. However, it is also true that, when implementing EU legislation in the form of directives, the 30 EEA countries have a certain degree of national freedom – often not so small – in relation to how they are implemented in their own country, as opposed to judgments, which have to be incorporated into words. This may also lead to differences between Nordic countries because in some cases local conditions indicate some differences in the way we implement directives. Three years ago, we set up a Border Barrier Forum under Nordic cooperation on the initiative of the Nordic Prime Ministers, such as the Nordic countries. is responsible for the implementation of EU directives in the Nordic region. The Forum contributes to the work of clearing existing Nordic border barriers where possible. Border Obstacle Forums meet regularly and work independently and independently to identify, prioritise and propose solutions to such obstacles. It is a goal for Nordic countries to prevent new border barriers from emerging through national legislation. In November, a Nordic seminar will be held in Copenhagen on the implementation of EU directives in national legislation. An important objective here is that representatives from relevant ministries working in the preparation of national legislation and the implementation of EU directives can establish and strengthen the network in the Nordic countries. All departments involved in Nordic cooperation have received an invitation to this seminar. A report on Nordic cooperation on the implementation of EU and EEA legislation was prepared in 2009, which will form the basis for the seminar. The issue of Nordic legislative cooperation in the implementation of Community acts was further briefed by Minister of Justice Storberget of the European Commission on 23 January 2009. Then it is that a complete reduction of border barriers is hardly possible, because the Nordic countries may have different local needs and different laws and regulations. However, where obstacles cannot be removed, we can seek to maximise harmonisation and that different rules do not at least create unnecessary problems. The current Danish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers is working to ensure that all meetings of the various Councils of Ministers have the resolution and resolution of border barriers on their agendas. The Nordic Cooperation Ministers agree on this at all their meetings. Nordic Minister of Cooperation Aasrud coordinates this work internally in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e878	I thank you for the answer and for the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so concerned about these important issues in Nordic cooperation. Of course, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that a complete reduction of all border barriers is neither realistic nor desirable because of different needs in individual countries. But at the same time, and despite the EEA Agreement, I believe that in 2010 we still have too many unnecessary obstacles, which impose on individuals and businesses too many problems and challenges. I feel that this work is moving slowly forward, but that the implementation of some EU directives puts us back in several important areas. I would like to ask: will the Council of States implement measures that can be a binding guarantee, so that no new unnecessary barriers to such implementations occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e887	I think a binding guarantee is demanding. However, I believe that a very strong political ambition of the Nordic governments to work in all disciplines covered by governments, with the fact that it is always necessary to be vigilant in the development of national legislation, rules and laws and the implementation of EU directives, must be on the agenda. To keep it politically central, I think we can all make a mark of it in a few days' time, and we are preparing for the Nordic Council session in Reykjavik. Government members will meet. I want to meet in the Foreign and Trade Ministerial Circle, there it is a natural theme. The Prime Minister meets his colleagues, and they follow up the Barrier Forum initiative they themselves have taken. And, in my view, parliamentarians should also be able to make a powerful mark of it in the debate that will be, the general debate and also the debate on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e892	I have recorded that it has been said from the Danish Minister for Cooperation through the Danish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers that the Nordic region should mark itself as a very powerful region in Europe. If this is to succeed, it is absolutely essential that there are no unnecessary obstacles between the Nordic countries in this cooperation. Here, as I said, there is still a good deal left, but I believe that a new grip is being taken from all the Nordic countries to correct this. And I believe that Norway must go ahead and lead in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e897	I can confirm that we will. At the same time, I would like to stress, as I said in my speech, that there will be a number of national arrangements that we believe are important, where we must actually bear that it can be seen as an obstacle. That's why we're different countries. Border Obstacle Forums are currently working on approx. 30 cases, some of which are linked to Norwegian barriers. Example of this is an introduction message on boats, which some people complain about and believe is an obstacle. Another is bank charges for international payments. The Norwegian father quota, the so-called paper issue, is also highlighted by other countries as an obstacle to Nordic citizens when they come to Norway. All three arrangements are arrangements we have put in place because we believe it has value. However, the strength of Nordic cooperation, which I believe is stronger than in other EEA/EU countries, is that we have these forums – parliamentary, political and between our administrations – which can address these issues when they appear, and at least get a thorough check that they are required and, if possible, that they are terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e908	The question is: ‘In the years 2005-2009, a total of approx. $22.5 billion. kr in tolls from the drivers. Of this, approx. 2.5 B.C.E. kr used to cover collection costs and approx. 2.5 B.C.E. NOK used to cover interest expenses. Road investment, collective and environmental measures and the operation of public transport have contributed 17.5 billion. DKK in five years. What will the Council of State do to stop or limit the scope and use of tolls and to ensure the most effective use of tolls paid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e917	National transport plan 2010–2019 represents a historical commitment to transport, where the state framework for transport is increased by about 45 pst. compared to the previous national transport plan. The investment programme will lead to the greatest lift for the development of transport infrastructure in modern times. Nevertheless, there is local desire and willingness to use tolls to further the realisation of road projects. I am in favour of this. However, there is a clear indication that there is local political support for the toll projects being launched for Stortinget. Instead, if the projects were to be fully funded by state resources, this would lead to less scope for investment in other transport projects or other priority areas. At the same time, I can ensure that I will work for the best possible state framework for the development of transport infrastructure in Norway. The state road and toll companies are working continuously to reduce the collection costs and the costs of operating the company. Toll station automation is one measure such as: shall reduce the costs. I also show that the state road system, together with three of the county municipalities, has made a sale of county/regional toll companies. In the report, it is recommended to switch to larger companies. The reason for this is that larger companies can professionalise operating and exploit economies of scale. This matter is now being dealt with in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e924	I choose to follow up on the follow-up of the paid-up funds. So the numbers tell us that in addition to adding 17.5 billion. For five years, the drivers have also had to pay an additional bill of 5 billion. kr. It is the State Road Service that is the supervisory authority of the toll companies, but they have small — if at all some — sanctions in the event of improper use or low efficiency of use. It is clear that it has a significant impact on the actual amount of this additional bill for the drivers, on the rationality of its operation, and on the minimum rate of construction loans. Does the Council of State feel that it is well managed by the Vegvesen as a supervisory authority in relation to the management of the funds paid by the drivers to the toll companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e931	I have to repeat that both the State Road Service and the toll companies are working continuously to reduce the collection costs and the costs of operating the company. That's what makes it possible that one at many toll stations is now automated. That's what also means that a person now has an estimate. In some cases, there are small operating benefits. In this case, there is a reference to economies of scale, i.e. the aggregation of some of these companies, precisely for the purpose of further efficiency, additional rationalisation, the external focus of the extra costs to be as low as possible. I think there's something to pick up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e936	I think, unfortunately, that it's too little done and more to pick up. I am now standing here with the National Audit Office's report, which came yesterday, on the audit and control of the financial year 2009. Again, the National Audit Office has significant observations relating to toll companies. It's about contractual relationships, that is, using the template that is defined and that is to be used. It was pointed out in the 2006 financial year from the Riksrevision that the use of the template had to be stepped up. Now we're reading that this is going to happen first, maybe from 2011. The interest is broken, says the National Audit Office, and loans are not renegotiated to save the drivers for extra costs. So is it that, as long as the drivers are forced to pay, the Department does not take seriously the management and supervision of the funds actually paid?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e943	Now I think that the representative Sortevik himself just refers to an example that there has been a problem here. I've also pointed that out in my answer, that we now have a report for treatment in the department that emphasizes that here it might be beneficial to pick up. In other words, it may be more efficient and rational to pick up toll companies with fewer toll companies. So I'd like to add that we've been busy continuously, from the department's side, and also from the state road and toll companies' side, that here we're going to exploit the potential for efficiency. In this way, the Riksrevision's report on today's state actually helps to give additional momentum for a job in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e954	‘The mandate for the High-Speed Investigation Phase 2 provides for the investigation of different conceptual solutions such as multi-use paths, stopping patterns, speed standards and the possibility of step-by-step development of the existing network. These are individually and collectively important premises for the corridor analyses to be made later in phase 3. As is known, these important conceptual assessments are not sufficient in phase 2 as foreseen. What is the reason for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e961	As the representative Halleraker points out here, different solutions in phase 2 of the high-speed arrangement have to be made. These assessments will be important premises for the corridor analyses in the next phase. But I can ensure that these questions and issues are addressed in the recently concluded agreements with various external consultants to assist the Railway Agency's project organisation. The Ministry of Transport has asked the Railway Agency to identify the most appropriate action options for achieving the transport policy objectives of the various corridors. The following options are specified in the High Speed Mandate: the reference option, i.e. a continuation of current railway policy, a more offensive further development of existing railway infrastructure, including outside the IC area, a high-speed concept partly based on existing networks and the IC strategy mainly separate high-speed railways; As set out above, this is not just an outline of new paths for high-speed trains, but an outline to recommend long-term strategies for the development of long-distance rail passenger services in South Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e983	There are two issues here, really. One is that it has always been thought that there is a need for international competence to carry out these investigations, and the railway manager has also confirmed that. It is good that these tenders have been published internationally. So the majority, who are behind this, said in the NTP setting: ‘The majority consider that further work should be carried out on multi-use multi-modal multi-modal multi-modal trains, regional trains and freight.’ It is there, plus varying stopping patterns, the mix of regional trains, high-speed trains and the speed standard, that I believe is deficient in the tender documents that have now been sent. After the answer just given by the State Council, it may indicate that this is attributed to the Railway Agency to investigate. Then my question is, is that how we had foreseen it with international competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e995	This is the case with the supply so far allocated, that it is a strong feature of international competence. It's been an arrangement that has doctors there, quite simply based on an awareness that there is both international experience and competence on the type of train that we don't have in Norway. If we are to move forward in this field, we need to shift skills that exist internationally. So to Halleraker's question: I see it this way, quite clearly, that all of these different aspects – these four different options – are going to work out and be taken care of as a set of the same competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1002	There are, of course, many questions, and the mandate given is also very comprehensive. We spend a considerable amount of money by the state on this investigation, and then it is important that it is as thorough as possible, and that we also find out what we want to know before a decision is taken. There is also a broad agreement behind this mandate, with many parties, who are not all in government either. Thus, anchoring is also important in this room. I could imagine challenging the Council of State if she would like to come to Stortinget with an explanation on an appropriate occasion about the work on the high-speed investigation – if not before, at least in the revised state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1009	I am well aware that there is a wide-ranging agreement on the basis of which the items are ordered. For this reason, I have also been very conscious of the way in which the mission itself is described, precisely in order to obtain both benefits and disadvantages with the development of the high-speed rail system and the consequences for the transport system as a whole. It may be that it would be natural at some point to orientate the Storting somewhat more, but now this is a work that is going on, and it is already assigned to the first part. So I'm going to be allowed to come back to that. But what I can promise the representative, Halleraker, is that of course I will take an extra round with the Railway Agency to ensure that they are on the right track in relation to the assignment. I personally have no reason to doubt that, but for the sake of order: an extra round.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1027	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 6 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1036	‘The founders of the Skrautvål joint, Steinsetbygda samige and Ton and Leningen outlandslag in Nord-Aurdal and Etnedal municipalities have been working for several years on an alternative model of state protection in connection with the extension of the Ormtjerkamp national park, in their private areas. In a letter dated 8 May 2009, the Council of State promised a meeting with the landowners as soon as the matter was dealt with by the Directorate for Nature Management and Shipment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Has the Council of State considered its proposals and when will the meeting be held?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1043	The case therefore concerns the extension of the National Park of Ormtjerkamp, which is part of the national park plan for the creation of three landscape protected areas and five new nature reserves, as well as the extension of one of the existing nature reserves as part of the overall package. It concerns a number of municipalities: Østre Glidre, Nord-Aurdal, Nordre Land, Gausdal, Etnedal, Sør-Fron and Nord-Fron. Our impression in the Ministry of the Environment is that there is a broad local outreach on essential aspects of the National Park, but that there is also local resistance, especially to the proposed Fullsenn Landscaping Area. Much of the resistance is based on the fear that there will be restrictions on traditional steel operations in Valdres. There may also be other reasons, but at least that's the most essential thing. In the light of the letter to which Bjørn Lødemel refers, from Schrautvål in common, where they present alternative ideas and ask for it, a meeting has now been held on 2 November, where State Secretary Heidi Sørensen will meet all the rapporteurs in the relevant municipalities. Mr Erling Sande, Head of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, will take part. And the hope is to look at how to find solutions that all parties can accept. In this meeting, of course, Schrautvoel too will have his vision presented. Since the treatment has not reached an end point, it is not natural for me to make my own views on this matter, and I hope that Loodmeal understands that. At any rate, we must ensure that we have a good opportunity to express these points of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1054	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that there will be a meeting already on November 2nd, and I hope, of course, that the joint will also have a good opportunity to present its view there. What's special is that the landowners don't want a protective conflict. They want to take care of nature values through an approved management plan. In a letter to the Ministry of the Environment, they are asking for the Ministry to become a partner in the development of a land-owned administration in this area. In an interview with the magazine Jakt & Fiske, the Minister stated that one of the new principles of the new law on natural disasters is that one must be able to manage without necessarily protecting. In addition, the Minister stated that human activities such as agriculture, fishing and road construction could take place at the same time as ensuring natural diversity. In the same article, the Minister states that there is a paradigm shift from nature protection law to its main objective. We see that the landowners want a landowner-controlled administration, and we see that private property rights are strong in such a desire. Can a land manager be such a part of a paradigm shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1065	In any case, we are now adding up to the local administration of national parks. There will be a nationwide process in the next year, how much of the responsibility will be shifted down to a more local level, provided, of course, that one works within the national leadership given by the Stortinget. This work has already started in Salt and will spread throughout the country. It cannot be the landowners alone who manage, but the landowners represent an important local interest, and it will be the local people elected who are at the heart of the administration. In any case, the basic owners shall be heard as one of the most important actors. National parks do not aim to stop any activity within national parks. It varies what can be allowed, and much of the environmental development in Norway in the years to come, as Lødemel also points to, is, of course, to be maintained, for example. grazing landscapes and seating areas, which have just their natural value, and where there are also species, because man has processed them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1072	I thank you for your answer. There's a lot of interest in this case. There is a great deal of interest among the landowners, and therefore some of the landowners are actually here in the Storting today. Private ownership is strong. He is a powerful force to take care of the natural values that are, but he is also a powerful driving force to manage the natural values that are on his own. Both landowners and municipalities are deeply concerned that so large a site is now to be included in the protection plan. They also see the question mark of local democracy’s influence on the basis of extending the national park from 9 km2 to 1170 km2. We see that the county has been in favour of some recordings that have come from land ownership, while the Directorate for Nature Management has been negative. We also see that the creation of this national park will lead to two positions in the State's nature oversight, a significant job that the landowners could have done. Does the Council of State understand why there is such a strong desire to exploit the private ownership of such an administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1089	Yes, I believe that private ownership has many good sides. I am – in all modesty – a significant forest owner myself, and have not given away that forest either to the state or to others. And in international terms, I have argued for it a number of times, because it almost always turns out that the most efficient form of farming is that self-owning farmers, let's call them centre-party farmers -- it probably won't satisfy Lødemel, but let's call them that -- control their means of production and connect to a market producing more. But, of course, in this area too, it is necessary to limit itself to other interests in society, in this case wide-ranging natural interests. The purpose of this meeting on 2 December would be to make the balance between the traditional operation that has been done and the desire to take care of a great area in Norwegian nature. I hope that meeting can help bring it forward. Should the landowners feel that they are not satisfied, and that the process is too bad, of course, I have to stand by my appointment and meet them directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1096	The President expects it to be the meeting of the Council of State on November 2nd?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1099	Undoubtedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1108	‘The party has long criticised the government’s plan for CO2 clean-up at Kårstø to be wasted on taxpayers’ money. We have wanted a full focus on the test facility at Mongstad, in line with advice from Gassnova. It's spent over half a billion dollars on investigations around Kårstø, but for 2011 zero dollars is granted. It's uplifting. Will the government now scrape the Kårstø project until the experience of Mongstad indicates that full scale CO2 cleaning is a technological and economical measure to cut global CO2 emissions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1124	The government started in 2006 planning a full-scale capture plant for CO2 related to the Kårstø gas power station of Naturkraft. In addition, the investigation of a solution for the transport and safe storage of CO2 started. In the context of the revised 2009 national budget, the government briefed in May of the same year that the acquisition process related to CO2 management in Kårstø is halted. The background for this is related, among other things. to uncertainty about the operating pattern of the gas power plant and how much CO2 would be needed to deal with it. At the same time, Stortinget was informed that the government wanted to find a possible integration solution between the gas power plant and the gas processing plant at Kårstø. The survey was handed over to the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in March this year. Furthermore, external quality assurance, known as KS1, has been carried out on the basis of the Kårstø project’s decision-making. This report was handed over to the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Finance in April. The report presents what quality insurers consider to be more overall challenges in the Kårstø project. A comprehensive and important investigation of CO2 management has been carried out on Kårstø since 2006. Work has helped to generate useful knowledge on different aspects of the establishment of full scale CO2 management facilities and will make a significant contribution to the possible continuation of the project. The CO2 management projects at Kårstø and Mongstad are large, they are complicated, and there are expensive projects. There are also significant risks involved in the development of CO2 capture technologies from the research stage to the industrial scale. Against this background, the government proposes that CO2 management at Kårstø should be assessed against other climate action in the context of a climate policy hotspot. This message is scheduled for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1168	The answer confirms, to the extent that my question is intended, that the Kårstø project will not appear as a separate climate action as it did in the Soria Moria declaration, an action that would then be implemented by 2009 independently of other measures. That's good, because this project is a politically born project that doesn't focus on developed technology. Odd Roger Enoksen – when he was Minister of Energy – said in 2006 that the implementation of Kårstø will not give particular learning effect or transfer value to other measures. Fortunately, it seems that the government has now taken note of it, and treats it as any other project. Then I'm really very happy. After all, the price has increased significantly since one first submitted it, from under 1 billion kroner. NOK to now between 15 and 33 billion. kr. Then I have to ask: what chance does the Council of State think that Kårstø will be able to be cleaned at all by 2020 if you want to see it in connection with other projects and would like to have a learning effect from Mongstad, which will be full-scale in 2018 at the earliest? Then it will take another four years for Kårstø to be cleaned, and then it will be 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1175	First just a little bit of clarification. When the number 33 billion. kr is used here, it is not comparable with the starting point of the Kårstø project. Otherwise, I believe that there is every reason to discuss and reason about the complexity of the CO2 projects. I have informed Stortinget about this in the autumn regarding the Mongstad project. I believe that we now have a lot left to use energy to realize the Mongstad project in a good way. I agree with what Mr Solvik-Olsen says about the status of the Kårstø project. There is now a project that is assessed on the basis of the climate effect in isolation linked to different clean-up measures that are being undertaken. The Mongstad project is what is now both defined as and in practice is the leading learning venue in technology development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1185	First, yes, it's absolutely right that the Council of State says, 33 billion. kr also includes the cleaning of the refinery, which the Minister for the Environment said in January 2009 that we should do, but which is not, however, comparable to the original figures. Then it's 15 billion. kr which is more relevant. I am pleased that Gassnova's recommendation, which came back in 2007, is that we only have one full-scale cleaning project at a time. But it's obviously also going to be a line break when you don't have the skill to implement Kårstø. Like I said, that's good. Can the Council of State confirm that the whole government is behind this? For in the media, even after the budget was presented, we have received statements, especially from SVs like Hallgeir Langeland and Snorre Serigstad Valen. Langeland said in the Haugesunds newspaper that Kårstø will come into the revised budget and that it will be implemented as an individual measure and not as a climate action against the other. Is the entire government behind the Energy Minister's statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1196	The answer to that is yes. It is the government's government budget that has been presented, and my proposition to the Storting in this regard is part of the government's budget. And there's a common position about what's in the proposition I've made there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1201	That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1210	‘The undersigned State Council asked a written question on 4 October on how he would deal with any claim for reimbursement of grants granted by Enova, if ESA does not approve the aid. In my view, the Council of State avoids answering my question. Can the Council of State justify why he does not answer my question, and who will have the financial responsibility to restore the area to its original state?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1217	It concerns a common set of guidelines on State aid for renewable energy in all EU and EFTA countries. The guidelines for State support for renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement are followed by Enova. These guidelines state that aid for individual projects of a certain size shall be approved by the EFTA Surveillance Authority. It is the process that is now taking place for a number of issues in which Enova has granted support. As long as you follow the guidelines, there's no drama in this. The Ministry and Enova have a close dialogue with the Authority on the follow-up to these cases. We have stated that we need a quick clarification of the matters. We have not received any signals that suggest that these projects cannot receive the support they are promised, but since the legislation is new both to us and to the Authority, an approval process will take some time. We must respect the work of the Authority. That means we can't pay out support until we have a positive decision. I deal with the facts of the matter as such and see no need to discuss hypothetical issues related to these projects. The matter is now under consideration, and we have to await the conclusion of the Authority, but I am sure that they will take decisions that do not have a significant negative impact on the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1226	I record that the Council of State does not respond to the question for the second time. You can refer to ESA and you can wait for it, but the question comes from those who started it. There are companies that have started up, they have started to intervene heavily in nature by casting, and they have made roads for several kilometres. The problem is that if they do not receive support from Enova, this should be returned to the condition that it was, and there is a polluter who is going to do it. But will the Council of State agree to guarantee and tell who it is that will take that cost? After all, Enova has been given funds that are likely to be withdrawn. So can the Council of State answer me the question I've asked him for the second time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1231	I answer the question, but I perceive that the answer is not what the representative wants it to be. My point is that I believe that Enova has followed the guidelines that apply within the EU and EFTA systems in support of individual projects to realise renewable energy projects. As long as the rules and legislation are followed, I also assume that there are no objections from ESA attached to the decisions that Enova has now taken. On the other hand, if that were to happen, the matter was different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1236	I record that the Council of State has come up with a new track here. You choose to delegate responsibility to Enova. As far as I know, you can't delegate responsibility. The responsibility is yours. You're the boss of Enova. But what I'm asking for is that you guarantee here that the companies might not get hurt by Enova making a mistake, if there's a negative outcome of this. And the reason I'm asking for it is that the companies are going to go to board meetings to stop the work until they know the result. It has great consequences for the companies. They're talking about 200 million. kr, which could help to rage the bottom line of the entire project. So the question is, will the Council of State take responsibility if it turns out that Enova, as the Council of State rules, has made a mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1241	The President must remember that all speeches must be addressed to the President. Then you don't use the form of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1244	It is not right that this is any form of discharge. Responsibility is linked to the granting of aid in individual projects to individual companies. It's delegated to Enova. I assume that Enova follows the legislation applicable to the EU and EFTA areas in support of renewable energy projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1253	‘Petoro shall monitor and follow up enormous values on Norwegian pedestal. At Heidrun, a slow drilling tempo has led to petroleum resources being written down by 100 million barrels, equivalent to 45 billion. kr. Petoro has a total of 58 pst. holding in the licence, while Statoil has only 12 pst. Most of this loss thus affects the Norwegian state treasury. Is the Council of State satisfied with the current situation and how will the Council of State ensure that Petoro can strengthen its ability to follow up the fields in which they are involved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1260	The representative of Solvik-Olsen addresses an important theme – a theme that I am also concerned with. I am both responsible for resource management on a Norwegian base and as the State Council responsible for the follow-up of the owner of Petoro. In order to be recorded in these areas, the Ministry has recently had an extractive selection in work. The report for the sample is now being consulted, and the report and the consultation opinions on it will be an important input to the big picture I intend to provide in 2011. The Oil Directorate has a central role in the follow-up to the petroleum activity, and I know that the Oil Directorate has followed Heidrun closely, and that they have expressed concern about developments in the field to the rightholders. They include: required Statoil to present a new extraction strategy for the field. Besides, it's not my role to be satisfied or dissatisfied with the situation on individual fields unless something extraordinary happens. We have a framework that gives the operator a strong self-interest in running the field effectively, and I know that the operator has a lot of attention on the challenges associated with Heidrun. Active partners are an important prerequisite for maximising the possible values of the fields. Active partners who are constructively challenging the operator's work therefore have an important role on Norwegian pedestal, and I believe Petoro is playing such a role in a good way today. One of the areas of Petoro’s investment is to ensure the maximum profitability of the SEDØE portfolio in the matured fields on Norwegian base, including Heidrun. I am aware that over a long period of time, Petoro has done a considerable amount of work in terms of measures for increased extraction in this field. Concrete measures on Heidrun have been implemented and new measures are being assessed by the stakeholders for the field. It is my impression that Petoro contributes significantly to safeguarding the values of the state on Heidrun. In addition, it is the responsibility of the Management Board to give priority to the funds allocated to Petoro over the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1273	It's extraordinary when we've more or less confirmed that we're missing 45 billion. kr in oil, because time-critical investments and drilling are not carried out. That's what's the challenge here. The resources exist, but due to the behaviour of the reservoirs, it is sometimes necessary to drill within a certain time frame in order to extract them. If it doesn't, it'll be e.g. too little pressure. That's the example here, and that's why this is an extraordinary situation. So Statoil has more explanations, and the challenge is to do something about it. But given that one has had a drilling plan of eight to ten wells a year, but implements two, it should have lit some warning lights a long time ago. I have great confidence in Petoro, but Petoro has for a long time said that they do not have the resources to follow up their responsibilities after the merger between Statoil and Hydro, because they no longer have two parties to play against each other. Now they only have to deal with one actor, and even do – to say – the role of the counterparty. What does the Council of State do to prevent this from happening again with such great values?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1284	Firstly, there are a few more players left on a Norwegian base than one after the merger between Hydro and Statoil took place, but there is no doubt that the two major Norwegian players are now one and have given rise to new challenges. But I would like to highlight the role of the Oil Directorate in this. I also mentioned that in my initial answer. Petoro has an obvious and very important role to play in being the exact driver of the license. On the other hand, the Oil Directorate has a role to play in following up on authority, and what I really see lies in the representative's questions is asking enough critical questions and demanding licences, demanding companies, that there should be good socio-economic thinking behind the plans in the individual fields. We have a good story in Norway that this kind of involvement has produced added values for the fields in Norway, and Troll is one example.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1289	Statoil as an oil company has 80 pst. by the steering of the socket. The state has formally controlled everything. Petoro could first use Hydro and Statoil up against each other. That's what was my point, not that there are no other actors today. But they're not of the same dimensions. Governments mention the Oil Directorate. OD's director Bente Nyland has said very critically about what she's seen. She has asked a lot of questions, and she has even said in an article on offshore.no that she wants us to be able to assess a new operator if you do not follow the responsibility you have as an operator, as you could imagine – and then I aim at the Heidrun field – but lose 45 billion. kr on behalf of the community. Is the Council open, if there's so much money being wasted because you haven't prioritised Norwegian pedestal high enough, to assess the operator's change when concessions are to be re-assigned?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1298	The last part of the question, which is about assessing the operatorship of new fields, is, of course, the management of it at all times, the existing operatorship of different fields of very great importance when assessing new operators. Moreover, my trust in the Oil Directorate – and their ability to make good assessments against the licences and progress there as well as concrete, professional issues to be assessed in this regard – is very great. I think it's important that we have an oil directorate that's good enough to perform that role, and that also of me as the Council of State, and of political Norway, is allowed to have the role of the professional body that they are and will be. And I'm listening carefully to the assessments that come from the Oil Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1305	The size goes back to question 6, from the representative Harald T. Nesvik, to the Minister of Health and Care. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Health and Welfare, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1313	I will ask the following questions to the Deputy Minister of Health and Welfare Council, the Minister of Culture: ‘There has not yet been a final decision on the construction of a new Molde hospital, and we also see in the media that there is a continuous debate on whether structural changes are to be made that could eventually lead to a joint North-Møre/Romsdal hospital. The investigations are ongoing and have been in progress for a long time and there is a significant maintenance need in Molde if there is a further postponement at the start of construction as it may now appear. When will a final start-up decision be taken in this case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1322	As the representative of Nesvik is probably familiar with, an investigation into hospital construction in Health Nordmøre and Romsdal has now been carried out. The report was handed over to Health Mid-Norway on 6 October. Three different solutions have been identified, in line with the mission given by the Minister of Health to Health Mid-Norway in March this year. The options are: one new joint hospital in the North Moravia and Romesdal maintain today's two-sickness structure and build a new hospital at Eikrem in Molde a zero option, which implies the use of today's building mass, and that it is upgraded I am aware that the matter is being prepared for the governing bodies in Health Mid-Norway. The investigation will first be dealt with in the local government of Health Nordmøre and Romesdal. Then it will be promoted to the government of Health Mid-Norway. First of all, this is a matter where a decision has to be made between the different solutions that have been explored. Sustainable health care in the years to come places high demands on priorities, resource use and investment decisions. Regional health enterprises have overall responsibility for the investment and operation of hospitals. This means that they are responsible for prioritising, planning and launching investment projects. This is assumed to be carried out under agreed framework conditions. The health enterprises’ funding system supports the overall responsibility of transferring appropriations for operations and investments as a framework rather than as earmarked grants. Me and the Minister of Health have great respect for the work done in Health Mid-Norway. Of course, we'll listen to the recommendations it's made. At the same time, we cannot give any signals today when the construction of a possible new hospital building in the North Moravia and Romesdal can begin. We would like to stress that when choosing a hospital solution for Northern Ireland and Romesdal, attention must be paid to good professional solutions that are also economically sustainable. There are good hospitals in North Moravia and Romesdal today. That doesn't mean we don't see the need for a new hospital solution in this region. But until this happens, we are committed to ensuring that the population feels secure that they get the services they need in today's specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1347	I can guarantee to the Council of State how the health care system works in terms of processes. I know that a little after 12 years in the Health Committee and four years in charge of it – this also applies in healthcare companies. That's not what I'm asking. My question is, how long should the population wait before a decision is taken? The three options that have now been put on the table during the investigation process, which is also very well known in the region, make the Council of State itself a contributing factor in the postponement of what was the original plan and in the consideration of a number of options. The original plan was to build a new Molde hospital. So it's been fooled by various new recordings. I repeat my question: can you at least soon get an answer? The longer it takes before a decision is taken, the bigger problems are associated with recruiting new people and professional staff applying away from existing hospitals. It is therefore important to make a quick decision. Will the Council of State contribute to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1354	The President will remind you that speaking time must be kept. It's a clock in front of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1357	I would like to draw the attention of the representative Nesvik to the fact that the Minister of Health has a very strong focus on this matter and to conduct thorough investigations. When we carry out thorough investigations into what to focus on to give patients the best possible offer, so that people who are ill should receive good treatment, it is not ‘malicious’. On the contrary, it is a very thorough procedure, on which the Minister of Health attaches great importance in this matter. The studies currently carried out have not yet been dealt with, either in the local health business or in the regional board. This must be decided when the investigations are completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1364	We know they haven't made a decision, but that's because a new process was started. There was a decision, even on the choice of plots, where there was to be a new hospital in More and Romesdal, i.e. on Eikrem outside Molde. The previous processes had started and even started to look at the space program. Now you almost have to start over by figuring out three different options. I will not expect the Minister of Culture to be able to answer in detail what the Minister of Health is doing. But can the Minister of Culture at least promise me that she will pass on a significant wish from the population in this district that the Council of State is strongly involved in the matter to get a quick clarification, because for every extra day that goes without signals and a decision is made, it takes longer before a hospital possibly comes into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1371	I can guarantee the representative Nesvik that the health minister has a very strong focus on this matter. Getting good health care for people requires something else from our hospitals than what it did before. People are going to get the best treatment. Therefore, we need to make decisions based on what is economically sustainable, and on how to attract good professionals. I can guarantee the representative that this places the health minister's emphasis on all his work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1376	So we go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1383	Over to culture – but it can also provide good health! ‘Does the Council of State wish to categorically reject, irrespective of the organisation within a new national museum, the possibility that the national gallery may remain so known to the public today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1390	The representative of the Seven will be aware that since 2001 work has been underway to find a solution to improve the unsatisfactory building conditions that the National Museum has been struggling with for very many years. In the early days, an alternative was identified that gathered all the activity in the area on and around Tullin onions. In St. prp. No 1 for 2008–2009, Stortinget was informed that the Ministry had started work on finding an alternative location, i.e. a building solution on the west runway to accommodate all functions of the museum, taking into account that the National Museum will move its entire activity to the west runway. It's on page 86. The investigation work was completed in February 2009, with an external quality assurance of the results. The recommendations from there have been unambiguous. Both professional and economically, a new building for the National Museum of the West Railway is clearly the best solution. On that basis, the government has decided to launch an architectural competition for a new building on the Western Railway for the National Museum’s overall activities in the fields of visual arts, crafts and design. The majority received a supplementary statement on the matter in the context of the 2009 revised national budget, St.prp. No 67 for 2008-2009. A basic assumption of the Western Railway Project is that the museum should be able to gather all its activities, except architecture, in one place. The National Museum will therefore move the exhibitions that are currently in the National Gallery to the newly built Western Railway when it is finished. For many of us, it's a value in itself to be able to meet visual art in its diversity in one place. It is by no means such that historical art can only be experienced in a certain type of buildings and contemporary art in other types of buildings. Co-location on the Western runway will contribute to a significant increase in the interest and emergence of the entire visual field of art with contemporary art, design and crafts, and architecture. In a newspaper article recently, the museum director describes an exciting perspective in highlighting how the museum can make visible and disseminate the connection between older art and contemporary art within a new, collective building complex. To see contexts I think I can be instructive within the visual arts field, as elsewhere in society. For the rich collections under the responsibility of the National Museum, a new building will mean a significant improvement in security and conservation conditions. Today, this is mildly unsatisfactory. It has, among other things, The National Audit Office was charged with two reports on building conditions in the National Gallery. A new building containing suitable and easily accessible exhibition areas, well equipped with storage space and modern functional workshops, will enable the museum to fulfil its dissemination and conservation tasks in a much better way than today. I want the National Gallery to be filled in the future with activities in the style of the building's peculiarity, but we have plenty of time to have an open discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1413	It was a little bit of a historical review, which there might be a little bit of different opinions about, for example. the extent to which the size has actually been fully informed and has had the opportunity to discuss the overall framework for the decision to which the Council of State has now referred. I remind you that there has been a private proposal here in Stortinget related to that particular part. I have to interpret the council to that she has now landed, and that the National Gallery, as we know today, is going to be history. As the Council of State has probably seen, there have been more articles written in the newspapers than the one to which she referred. My question is, is it so that I.C. Dahl and Tideman and Gode will be the lifebuoy for contemporary art? Is that the new reason for the co-location, as we could read a few days ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1420	No, I.C. Dahl shall not be a contemporary art lifebuoy. But I have faith that many of the traditional paintings can arouse people's curiosity and interest in contemporary art, and that the very possibility of seeing this in a context will be a great advantage of a common new building. Like the representative and others, I'm concerned about what we're going to use the National Gallery for in the future. You have to do a lot of rehabilitation work to take care of this building. But this reminds me of many of the other discussions we've had about older buildings in the capital. It was a big and important discussion about what we were going to use the University Library for. It is now used by the National Library, and the building is well preserved. I believe that an open discussion – and we have time to take that discussion – can also be involved in taking care of the National Gallery as a building as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1427	Then I turn my nose a little bit forward, because the Council of State was concerned that at the end of the day, what it looks like on the West Course is also crucial to the expression of this new museum, and what awareness the people get for a new national museum. It is well known that on this site there are many interests. We hear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would like to have regulated an office building more or less together with this National Museum. A lot of fears, and I think that's behind the unrest that many people have shown about the move, that the total expression on the West Railway is not going to be a good thing if you push too much in too little space. How does the Council of State view this side of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1434	The question relating to a possible building for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we will come back to and assess. I would like to ask the representative to take a close look at what has been proposed in the architectural competition. It's very good suggestions that have come in, which I think will make the western part of a very attractive meeting place for everyone who is currently occupied with visual art, and I also believe that this built will help far more people get interested in the visual arts area, as we've seen how the interest in the Opera has increased after we got a new building for the Opera.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1443	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: «In the Bondeblade of 30 September 2010, we could read about a farm operated as a limited liability company. This I think is great. Why, then, is it so difficult to be allowed to run a forest property like an AS?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1452	After the Ministry has been informed by the municipality, the property the representative of Bredvold refers to is personal owned and not a limited liability company. So it's a person, not a stock company, who owns the land. On the other hand, the operation of the property takes place through an operating company that is organised as an AS and has the right to use the property on the basis of ten-year leases that the limited liability company cannot require to be extended. It is not an obligation for leases of such duration. In the specific case referred to by the representative Bredvold, the acquisition by the limited liability company of the property with operational building was not subject to concession because the property was below the land limits of the concession law. However, even if the concession obligation arose because of the size of the property or the length of the lease term, concession could generally be granted to operating companies. Therefore, the organisation of operating companies is not normally problematic in relation to the concession law, either for forest property. I therefore find it difficult to understand the problem of the representative, Mr Bredvold. It is fully possible to operate a forest property such as AS, provided that the ownership of the forest is personal. So far about the specific matter it was referred to. The more fundamental discussion is about who should be able mainly to own forest and agricultural properties in Norway. The 2004 concession law further pursues the objective that agricultural property should be owned as far as possible by natural persons who are themselves responsible for the operation and living on the property. It has been shown in practice over the years to give a stable and rational form of ownership that prevents agricultural property from becoming a purely capital position. At the same time, the law states that a concession can be granted to limited liability companies. Thus, the law provides for flexible solutions in cases where these offer advantages that traditional forms of ownership do not have. This could be done, for example, by: need to exploit the resources of an area through co-operation. The decision is then based on a concrete and individual assessment. The law obliges the concession authority to pay attention to those who have been engaged in agriculture. I do not believe that a limited liability company in general provides better opportunities and motivation for investing in and operating an agricultural property than a personal property. A more frequent use of the law’s discretion to grant a concession to agricultural property could result in difficulties in enforcing a housing obligation that provides for a stable residence. Shares may be resold without a concession. This means that persons without interest in the property such as residence and employment, who invest only in the property as a mere capital position, can become owners without being prevented by concessional treatment. The free movement of agricultural property may therefore pose a threat to rural settlement. In a long-term perspective, I believe that the form of a share company is also not lucky in terms of taking care of the land resources. Norway only has 3 pst. soil, we can't afford it to be built down, grown again or degraded. Forest resources can play a crucial role in climate policy, but we rely on them to be managed by owners with a time perspective of 50 to 100 years. These are just two of the reasons property law is designed to handle. Therefore, personal ownership shall continue to be the main form of agricultural ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1467	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer is well enough, but what I think a lot about in this case is that we might have to think again. There has never been so many farms that are empty as today, approx. 34 000, there have never been so few who have been farmers either on part-time or full-time, and the interest in farming is at least not increasing, unfortunately. So we have to do something, and that's why I thought it was exciting what was in Bondebladet, that someone was running a farm like an AS. According to the article, it operates in a good way, «animal welfare stands in the high seat», as it says, they invest in relation to their income, and as an AS you also have more control over your income. So I really just see the benefits of this, and then you can transfer this to a forest-AS as well. We have to think new, and that's where I think the government and the Central Party and the Council of State are not involved in the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1472	I agree with the description of the operation presented in Bondebladet on the 30th, as underlined by the representative, and have no reason to say anything wrong about the operation of that farm, which is owned personally, but operates through a limited company. What I tried to underline in my previous answer was that it is actually fully feasible to implement it, provided that one has a personal ownership of the property, and that one has a contractual period limited to 10 years – then the concession obligation is not triggered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1477	I thank the Council of State once again for the answer, and I think you have to look longer than ten years. I don't think that's right, but I hear the Council of State thinks it's okay with such a ten-year period – but what about after ten years? When investing in an agricultural property, it is often investments that go over many years, many more years than ten years, and when you look at what the depreciation rules for an agricultural building mean, there are several more than ten years, and there is too much equipment, so it is a long-term investment. So I think it's completely wrong that it should only be ten years. But I'm coming back to what I said, that there's a downward trend in agriculture, unfortunately, and we're going to maintain the settlement, among other things, I think that we politicians have to think new, we have to think differently, we have to think so that we get into youth, and youth doesn't think in the same way that youth did before. You want time off, you want economic conditions and many other things that weren't before. Before you were born on a farm, you lived on a farm and died on a farm, but that's not the way it is today – you want something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1484	Traditional ownership of agriculture and forestry is personal ownership. It has been shown through many, many years of experience to deliver good results in terms of housing, employment and operation. We have a total number of agricultural properties in 2009 at the top of 186,000, of which 1 856 is owned by AS. If we're talking about forest properties of more than 25 dekar productive forest and less than 5 dekar agricultural land, there's a total of 13771, of which 422 are owned by AS. So there are cases, and it's possible through exemptions to implement it. But my starting point and starting point in the law is that personal ownership creates stability, long-termity and opportunities for good development in agriculture and forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1533	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1540	This question, from the representative of Olemic Thommess to the Minister of Labour, will be answered by the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church that directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1543	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘Nordic linguistic cooperation is largely about the practical cooperation projects a power can achieve. Cooperation in public administration plays a major role here. One field is cooperation on terminology work, another could be cooperation on translations of EU documents, where linguistic coordination would bring benefits over time. Does the Council of State think that the public sector could make a better contribution to Nordic language coordination, and what action, if any, will it take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1552	The Nordic Language Community is a pillar of Nordic cooperation. The language declaration adopted by the Nordic Council in 2006 is an important policy document. It has a long-term and broad perspective. In the short term, efforts shall focus on actions that contribute to improving the understanding of neighbouring languages among children and young people. The representative Thommessen addresses issues such as: cooperation in the field of terminology. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs participates in the Nordic terminology cooperation through Nordterm. Nordterm is a forum for Nordic organisations working on terminology. In this forum, the U.D. presented its terminology database for EU-related terminology available on the Internet. The U.D. has extensive contact with Iceland’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the translation of EU acts to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Such cooperation shall concern, inter alia: document formats, software for translation and work processes. This leads to increased quality and better workflow. I have, together with the Minister of Justice, taken the initiative of a legislative seminar held in Copenhagen next month. The aim of the seminar is to stimulate contacts between those preparing national legislation and the implementation of EU directives in the Nordic countries. As a follow-up to the seminar, it may be interesting to look at the possibilities for greater coordination also on the language side. The public sector is a major player in all Nordic countries and affects the framework conditions for language development. I would like to discuss with my Nordic colleagues how cooperation in the public sector can contribute to better language coordination. Measures that can be further assessed are, for example: further development of cooperation at the level of officials, including: the exchange of Nordic officials. The purpose of this scheme is to provide employees in the country, centrally and locally, with better knowledge of the management and legislation of the Nordic countries in their own field of competence. This is a good opportunity to learn how other Nordic countries solve the challenge in their own field. Of other public sector projects, I would like to mention the clear language of the state, which my department has initiated and financed. Here we have been inspired by similar work in the other Nordic countries. In the Nordic Language Declaration, just plain language work is referred to as an area in which the Nordic region should appear as a language policy region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1569	I thank you for your answer. There were several positive grips here, among others. cooperation at the level of officials, which will also be important in relation to the cross-border problem. But I might have wanted a little more concrete suggestions. I think you should do a review of the state apparatus to see if you can find any possibilities. I mentioned in the question of the EU’s large amount of documents translated into the Scandinavian languages. Very familiar is no cooperation in the translation work between Sweden, Denmark and Norway. I have tried to find out if it is, and the answer has been unequivocally no. If language coordination is to be carried out, it is important to be ahead of what is the case when the language is already incorporated in each country. You just have to be a little bit ahead of evolution. If you had managed to get a common grip on the translations, that is, coordinated translations, you could actually be ahead of evolution for once. Could the Council of State think of that possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1580	I agree with Mr Thommess that it would have been an advantage if we could have had good coordination between all the Nordic countries in translating EU documents. But it is that Sweden, Finland and Denmark have a different form of association with the EU than we have, and have their documents translated into the Commission. For this reason, cooperation between Norway and Iceland has been developed to address at least the Community needs of these countries as regards documents, document formats and software. Then there's also another relationship that I want to mention, which I think is quite crucial if we're going to move on in this case, and that's working with language technology. There's a lot of possibilities here if we can get electronic dictionaries, databases on words. It's working on it, but it's probably a good piece of work here before we aim to have a good enough system in all the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1587	As far as technology cooperation is concerned, it is certain and certain that it is a step forward. It is a very important field, but among other things. the national authorities responsible for ensuring this in Norway have had very uneven developments. Here there is plenty of room for improvement, and I hope the Council of State will bring it with it both into the government apparatus and into Nordic agencies. As far as EU documents are concerned, Iceland is not part of the Scandinavian community, even if the language is related. So, in that sense, there's really no linguistic coordination effect in Norway cooperating with Iceland on this. Is it really that, as a foreigner, we will be cut off from finding a uniform approach to something as simple as making translations? It has no political significance as such, apart from the fact that one could find common words and expressions, or nearby words and expressions where that would be necessary. There is also no coordination between Sweden and Denmark. The coordination that I have seen exists between Finland and Sweden, for natural reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1598	I agree that there is a lot of mess about terminology work, and it is possible to do independently of who translates documents. The language council has its own work related to terminology, and what is new in the Nordic region is that there is a more established network between language councils. There comes a member of staff in place at the beginning of January. My hope is that getting a more systematized work between the language students in the Nordic region can help to make terminology work even higher on the agenda. I think that's where we can solve it to find simple words that we can use together. Although it may not be the most important thing in that context, I will also mention the work that is done in developing Nordic computer games. There's a lot of common words there that we're taking advantage of. I think the work done at the Nordic Council on the financing of computer games in the Nordic region also helps to create some common words, which we will benefit from in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1618	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1625	‘Child protection signs indicate that shortages in so-called centres for parents and children mean that very small children have to be taken out of their homes and separated from parents only because there are too few places available. These centres are important early measures that can reduce the need for takeovers. What does the Council of State do to ensure adequate places in centres for parents and children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1632	I agree with the representative, Hope, that centres for parents and children are an important measure to provide early help, and early help is a priority for child protection. These centres are used as relief measures for disadvantaged parents and children in order to strengthen parental function. However, they are also used in the monitoring and investigation of parental care and further needs. Today, there are 20 centres for parents and children spread over all regions of the country. 14 of these centres operate under state control; the others are under municipal or private control. Even above it is that there is a high coating at the centres, and the coating percentage increased slightly from last year. Two of the regions of Bufetat report overcoatings. Positions in centres are defined as voluntary relief measures and residents therefore consent to accommodation. It is the municipality that makes the placements, and then the State Regional Child Protection Authority shall assist in placements. These are centres which are supposed to be of high quality but which have not been well regulated in the past. The Act of 19 June 2009 on the amendments to the Child Protection Act, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, provided for the inclusion of centres for parents and children in the Chapter of the Act on Institutions. After amendment of the law, private and municipal centres shall be approved by the State Regional Child Protection Authority and all centres shall be supervised by the county. The Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion has drawn up proposals for its own regulations to ensure the diversity and flexibility of the measures. Proposals for regulations for centres for parents and children were sent to the hearing before the summer. We have received a lot of good input into the regulation, and it is expected to come into force by the end of 2010. It is a very concrete measure to ensure the quality and quality of centres for parents and children. I closely monitor the development of the centres. We have a very clear first priority in this state budget, and it's getting more jobs in municipal child protection. It limits the economic space we otherwise have. However, in some regions, as a result of increasing numbers of children living in foster homes, we can have overcapacity in state institutions. Therefore, I would like to ask the state regional child protection authority to consider the possibility of increasing the number of places in centres for parents and children. Furthermore, through research on relief measures, which is to be launched in the next year, I would like to ask for a closer look at these centres, so that we can gain even more knowledge of how to develop them to the best of families who need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1649	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State wants to continue working on this issue. However, it is very worrying that overcoating is reported in two of the regions in that type of centre, precisely because these are so early measures. There are so many small children that there should not be any available places to help such a vulnerable group. But I get all the more concerned about the situation when I see the headline in the newspaper today, where child protection employees say that you are not allowed to tell that there is an economy that is the reason for the training of things, that you have to think of fictional stories, and that there is a picture of the state child protection that puts the economy ahead of the child's best interests. Is it the kind of assessment that also makes a difference to parents and children when dealing with matters that should concern children’s best interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1658	No, what underlies the priorities we do is the best of the children. That's why there's been an effort to develop these centres, so we've incorporated it into the law, so we're now making a regulation, and that's why we're going to look at the possibilities to increase capacity in line with the availability of other institutional capacity. At the same time, as far as the funds that go to child protection are concerned, we're very clearly choosing to give priority to the first line, because we've had an increase in the budget for Bufetat of 70 pst. since the 2004 Child Protection Reform. We're at risk of getting a child protection with a large torso and thin leg. We don't want that, and therefore, the greatest possible amount of money has to reach out to the first line, where most children are, and where the possibility of reaching more people through early efforts is greatest. That is why it is a clear priority. At the same time, the necessary measures shall be implemented and not set aside for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1663	I am pleased that the Council of State has started the job of doing something about the critical situation in municipal child protection, but it is in the so-called large upper body, i.e. the state child protection, that the problems have now been revealed very clearly – in the newspaper today, by referring to a letter sent to the teams in the East region, where it says ‘Continued to postpone/anticipate placements iht bv. §4.4-5. the paragraphs’. And Professor Gudrun Holgersen of the University of Bergen also says in Dagbladet today that this is a violation of the Children's Protection Act. So I have to ask the Council of State again: is it such that there are economic considerations that override the professional assessments of child protection, or is the report in the newspaper simply out of date?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1670	The representative has changed the theme during the questions, but let me answer anyway. It is such that the requirement of the Child Protection Act that assessments of the child’s best interests should be based, of course, on the work of child protection. This means that the necessary measures should not be set aside for economic reasons. At the same time, it is also important that Bufetat does what they can to keep their budgets. So there isn't anything the government has come up with in the course of the year, but something we've been given a clear marching ground from all the parties in the Stortingen, because there has been a broad consensus that there is a need to get control of the expenditure situation in Bufatat. It is then that the opposition must also decide whether what they are asking for in the state child protection is organisational changes that allow us to spend the money more efficiently, or more money. You can't ask for both, like the opposition parties tend to do, a little bit after how the agenda in the newspapers changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1677	That being the case, it is no. 2, today's regular Question Time, ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-20.ana.ud404e1690	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
