ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e24	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Tone Liljeroth, has taken the seat. The Group of the Progressive Alliance is informed that the called alternate of the Telemark County, Kåre Fostervold, is invited to meet under the granted leave of the representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, on the 11th and 12th October instead of on the 7th October to 12th October. – This message is taken into account. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e42	On behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Hans Olav Syversen, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I would like to promote a representative proposal to improve the arrangements for private pension savings and housing savings for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e62	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Grete Faremo State Council Tora Aasland State Council Lars Peder Breck The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. With reference to our new conference facility, it will be an opportunity from the on-screen site to report on follow-up questions. But it is only possible to ask follow-up questions when the main questioner is on the platform. Then the system will be activated. Once the current State Council has come to the pulpit to answer the main question, it must do so in the old way. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e83	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: In connection with the last few days' election in the VG on soldiers and command in Afghanistan, it has been claimed that some actually have greater pleasure in killing their opponents than in sexual intercourse. If that's right, it's also a management responsibility to make sure that the people we're out there to represent us stand for the right attitudes and do the right thing in relation to what's drawn up by the Storting. I have understood that this is not new and was known at the time when the predecessor of the current Minister of Defence was appointed Minister of Defence. It surprises me that you haven't done anything, when it's obvious that there's still a problem here. I read a chronicle that the Minister of Defense wrote about supporting our soldiers, but I wonder if she is aware of her responsibility in this. My question is: to what extent is the Minister of Defence aware of his responsibility for the attitudes and challenges that Norwegian soldiers represent during his mission in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e92	Let me start by saying that I recognise the efforts of Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan. They are making an excellent effort to solve the difficult and demanding task that they have been given by this magnificence. Let me be clear from the beginning: I have reacted to one thing, and it is revenge or desire to kill as a motive to travel to Afghanistan, expressed in an interview of command. I don't think I would have done my job if I hadn't reacted, and that's exactly the concern of the soldiers that was the reason. I am pleased that the management of the defense has also been clear on this issue. Value-based management consists of both being clear on values, contributing to implementation and being able to correct if necessary. I am therefore pleased that work on values, attitudes and management is being taken seriously in the Defence. Much has been done in this area since a separate action plan was also put in place several years ago, which was also revised last year. This will nevertheless be a sustained work, and much of the job lies in a direct dialogue between management and soldiers. It is absolutely essential for me that we contribute to supporting the mission in such a way that the soldiers can come home with a high-ranking head. That's what I want for all of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e103	I thank you for your answer. I record that the Minister of Defence is concerned about attitudes, and I think that is positive. At the same time, I record that the Minister of Defence is vague, I think, to define his own responsibility in this. And if you've known about these problems for a long time, why do you still have problems with it? If there is still a command to go to Afghanistan to kill its opponents, then you have to ask questions about the way you select, at my discretion. It would also have been tempting to hear if the Council of State has any idea of how big the problem is. Is this one command, is it two command, or are there many? Is this also a problem among our private and corporates? I think, unfortunately, that many of those who are there feel collectively stamped by the attack that has been made on the part of the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence, and I think very few of them really recognize themselves in relation to the approach that has been used here. So it would be interesting to know if the Minister of Defense has any opinion about how big the problem is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e112	So I have expressed what I reacted to, and that I also think it is important to contribute to the failure of the few to destroy the many who are making an especially strong and good effort in Afghanistan and are contributing to the success of the mission. I have actually this last week had to work quite a lot on what this debate is not about. It's not about whether we're going to have a high ceiling for expressions that fall on the battlefield – strong expressions. I think we should have a very large ceiling height for that. This debate is not about sex either. There are many who have tried to contribute to the expression of what you have been looking for to respond to. That has not been the case either. Therefore, back to what my concern was: it was kindness for the soldiers that made me see it right to react in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e121	If the system has stopped us, two follow-up questions have been asked – first Ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e124	It is not difficult to agree with the Minister of Defense that our soldiers in Afghanistan are doing an excellent job. But they also do a job under rather extreme conditions. Many of those who have served in Afghanistan have served there before 1 January 2010. From then on there are new rules for compensation to veteran soldiers who have been injured in a mission. In the summer there was a big discussion about whether it was right to have different rules for those who served before and after 1 January 2010. Then the government was pressured from skirmish to skirmish, and Sverre Myrli of the Workers' Party said that ‘the government will now go through the scheme again’. He said that to ABC news on July 5. My question is, where is this bill now? Can Stortinget wait to get it soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e133	We have already started to assess the compensation scheme with a view to improvement. I fully agree with the point made by the fact that our soldiers in Afghanistan are working in extreme circumstances, and I therefore also hope that the representative agrees that the government has actually contributed to a quantum leap in the veteran work since 2005. We have to move on, too. We work, among others. with the follow-up to the veterinary notification and will shortly have an action plan in place. Of course, our work covers several aspects in order to strengthen both the rights of the veterans and their recognition. They deserve all the recognition they can get for the important effort being made. And so it's important when we have approx. 120,000 veterans, also stress that most come back with positive experiences that they can take advantage of still in life in other functions, either in defence or in civil life. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e142	The President must remind us that the response time is 1 minute, and expect it to be kept with military precision. Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e148	It's interesting to see the big commitment that blows up around these statements. I think a lot of our solar data in Afghanistan should have liked that same engagement was also there when one sees so many coming home and struggling with aftereffects. A year ago, I was allowed to travel to Afghanistan with some other politicians. I have to say that the visit to our soldiers made a huge impression, and it made a big impression as a politician, too, that it is in this room that we are responsible for the solar data. That's because of us they're down there. We decide that, and they're there until we call them home. My impression was that it was good soldiers, that they had a desire to help Afghans, and that they were there for idealistic reasons. But then one also sees the statement that comes as an unacceptable one, and I'm glad that the Minister of Defence will take care of it. But what they also said was that they wanted greater focus, greater preparation, greater follow-up and training in advance. Is there anything the Minister for Defence would like to address?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e157	Absolutely – and that is something that we will certainly be discussing in connection with the budget just presented. I can promise that I have a great commitment and will still have a great commitment for our soldiers out there. They deserve all the recognition they can get for the great effort they make. I am pleased that we now also have more – both in this room and outside the public – with knowledge of the efforts being made, so that we can discuss on the most realistic basis what can therefore be done to support the important job they are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e162	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e165	My question also goes to the Minister of Defence. In recent days we have seen reports that Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan are out too often and too long. In Afghanistan, we have now been twice as long as we were in World War II, but with a completely different defence, namely an intervention defense. We planned for three so-called OMLTs, which are mentoring Afghan security forces. It is now planned for six to seven pieces. We planned for a helicopter contribution, which is absolutely crucial for our efforts there, for six months. They've been out for almost two years. These are soldiers who are making a fantastic effort, and are prepared to kill or die in the utmost consequence as a result of our political choices. It deserves recognition. But much of the reason that the wear and tear on the staff is now so great is because the army's difficult situation and lack of resources. Telemark battalion, which has been in Afghanistan continuously since 2002, lacks about one troop in each company. We have a shortage of ammunition. It's too little practice, so it's a situation that makes many people feel less prepared than they should have been. The Minister of Defence said in an earlier speech that she was pleased that the management of the defence was clear when it came to values. She is probably also, I suppose, glad that the general inspector of the Army, Per Sverre Opedal, is just as clear to NTB yesterday. He said, «I find it difficult today. When we get down on the ground, there are two ways to solve it: either you have to hire more people, or you have to reduce the ambitions out there." My question to the Minister of Defence is: Is the Inspector-General correct or does the Inspector-General misappropriate in his analysis of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e185	Firstly, as the representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, I would like to stress that the mission in Afghanistan is demanding and is defending itself against major challenges. This is why it is all the more impressive to see how they are able to solve both the mission in Afghanistan and the major migration challenge that this House has also imposed on the Defense to do through the Long-term Defence Plan. There's also some background for the Army's budget to be strengthened next year by real 170 million. kr, and that we have cleared up a little better the cost allocation between the army budget and the budget for international operations, so that preparation for departure is not covered by the Army's budget to the extent it has been in the past. We also strengthen the budget with internal measures – for Army 206 million. Total kr. Now that we're also giving opportunities for increased crewing, increased training, increased ammunition to the departments at home, I'm still the first to realize that a professional system would always want more. In fact, I understand that the Army wants more personnel, more ammunition and a higher level of practice. But I think we with the budget presented next year is better off than we've ever been. And I'm actually able to say that it's the first time in a long-term plan that we stick to what we agreed, in the third year. We are working to achieve the objectives set by the current long-term plan, including the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e192	Finally, in the context of the adoption of the long-term plan, the Right and the other opposition parties were opposed. It's the first time it's happened. And the reason was that we and the other parties thought that the economic calculations didn't last, and that the huge imbalance between the tasks and the budget was just reinforced. The Minister of Defense here draws a very rosy picture of the situation in the Army and in the Defence in general. This can also be read in the budget documents that came yesterday. It's clear that there's a lot of emphasis on the fact that the story story is going to be right. Then it seems strange to hear the Minister of Defense today compared to what her State Secretary said to Nettavisen E24 yesterday. He said that it is a «restricted budget»: ‘We have huge challenges that will not be solved in 2011.’ Can the Council of State tell us what huge challenges the Secretary of State refers to and is not mentioned in the budget documents?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e204	I have characterised the budget as good, but tight – good because it increases the spending on defence, good because it increases in all defence sectors. It is tight because there is a call for a conversion that is demanding, also in the Defence. I cannot believe that it is precisely the Right that is concerned about effective public sector migration. One of the objectives of the migration is to ensure increased operational capability. I have myself wondered what it would mean to change the State Secretary from a well-formed Oslo citizen to a non-linguistic northerner. Even I'm a southerner, emigrated a seat beer even. In the South I think maybe we had described the budget as okay, on Byglandsfjord we describe it as good, but tight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e211	There are three follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e214	I can assure the Council of State that if other departments had received the same requirements for conversion and efficiency as the Ministry of Defence and Defence, we should have cheered. But back to the question of recruitment. The violent outcome of the Council of State in the light of the famous Alpha report is hardly a contribution to strengthening recruitment to a minimum level of Afghanistan. After we have received over nine years' feedback from the Swedish Defence Administration and from the Ministry Council that Norwegian soldiers stand for a high professional standard, a high ethical standard, we wonder what it is that the defence has not brought with it in nine years as the Alfa magazine has brought with it in six days down there. My question is: do the councils regret their violent attacks on soldiers and officers on the basis of this weekly report in Alpha?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e221	I think it is very important that both this Chamber and most people are aware of the responsibility that the Norwegian defence feel as military power with its mandate from Stortinget. There can be no doubt that Norwegian soldiers are carrying out their task within the limits set. That is why I have been concerned about giving a clear signal related to expressed attitudes about the desire to kill or revenge as a reason to kill by the command in an interview. I wouldn't have done my job as Minister of Defense if I hadn't been clear on this very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e226	Jan Arild Ellingsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e230	It would have been interesting to start with the definition of the term ‘clear’, but I'm going to leave it there for another time. What I've seen lately is at least that there's quite a different perception of what is a reality when it comes to, for example. The wear and tear on those we have down in Afghanistan. I was in a debate with the Minister of Defense two days ago when it came to wear, about soldiers being sent out prematurely and having too short rest at home, and specialists being sent out. I even realized that the department did not have a full overview of the status of how many were involved. I also record that on Monday during the throne debate there was a standing ovation to the budget that has been submitted, so it should not be a budgetary problem, although I perceive that the Council of State may now moderate it a little from its point of view. My challenge to the Council of State is simple: Does the Council of State mean, with the framework you now have in mind, that you will be able to take good care of our veterans, so that they will feel that they are taken as good care of as all the others that the government thinks you should take care of in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e241	As far as our veterans are concerned, it is important that we focus on the situation both before the mission, during the mission and after the return, and that is the basis for the work that the government has done and that has a long term. With regard to concrete rotation in Afghanistan, this is a situation we follow closely. This mission is demanding, and it presents defence and personnel with great challenges. There are also a lot of soldiers here who want to make an extra effort. So it is also an important task for me to make sure that the personnel do not take on unreasonable burdens in this way. However, it is important to stress here that no one is ordered out during the two rest periods after repatriation in relation to the period they are out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e248	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e251	As a seat beer that still lives in the valley, I believe the Council of State describes the budget as well. We know that we don't have so many words in the South, so I'm going to say that the follow-up of the veterans is at least less good. We all know that the follow-up to the solar data needs to be improved both before the mission, during the mission and after the return. So I'd like to get to the right of the Council of State a little bit about the impression of what's happening to the dormant home. We know that the solar data needs a good amount of time to evaluate and think about the impressions they've got, but the second piece that I think is at least as important is the time they're followed up after they get home. In the vet report, the Christian People's Party proposed that the solar data should be followed up for five years after home. The government thought it was enough by one year. Does the Council of State think that this is enough, or is it perhaps time to see if this follow-up needs to be expanded?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e256	One minute doesn't give you time to take the full discussion on how to ensure that the veterans are as secure as possible after returning home, not least the group that is struggling, where we now have a full focus on how to ensure as seamless a help as possible with civil society: health care, contact with Nav and contact with the State pension fund. Here it's important that we work on the defence side to give as seamless a routing as possible into the civil auxiliaries, and then we'll see if it's also necessary to reinforce the rights that already lie after the treatment here in the size of the vet report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e261	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e264	I have a question for the state council Aasland. Nor in this budget does the government choose to bet on teachers. In the budget, we see that the government would rather use the money to fully finance the increased number of hours, and I think that has caused great disappointment in School-Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that the large amount of money is then spent in the wrong area. We think of the teacher as perhaps the most important actor in school. That's why it's very important that we both have enough teachers, and that we can also give the teachers who are going to school the best possible start. Then we believe that if you are going to do that, you should have had a mandatory mentoring system that took care of all the newly trained teachers. In the guidance of newly educated teachers in other countries, there is a right, and it's a duty, while the government went against it when we dealt with the same thing here in the Storting; now it's just to be an offer. In February 2009, the KS and the Ministry of Knowledge signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the guidance of newly recruited teachers and pre-school teachers. The government has said that it will now offer guidance to all newly educated teachers from 2010. But the reality is, according to the magazine Education that it is only one of five newly educated teachers who get that offer. It is up to each municipality to decide whether to offer a mentoring system, as well as its content and scope, and how to implement it. Then the consequence is that we don't get a national system, but that we get a series of random arrangements around, and there are huge variations in the quality of the offer, and many may not get the offer at all. It's when I wonder that the government has no greater ambition to give newly educated teachers a good start. Does the Council of State think it is wise to conclude an agreement without the participation of teacher organisations? And does she think that the proportion that gets guidance will increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e277	I guess there's no group we've been working on as much as the teachers. This is particularly true in teacher training, and it is related to the new teacher training, which started this year, where we will introduce a system of guidance the first year after the teacher has been trained. We want to get this up as soon as possible. Many municipalities are already doing it. The current situation with regard to the follow-up to the guidance system is that there is good contact between the KS and the Ministry of Knowledge, based on the very agreement to which the representative refers, while there is good contact between the Education Association and other teacher organisations. This is something we all want. It depends on the attitude of the teachers themselves and their organisations to this as a possible negotiating theme, but it also depends on what the municipalities themselves want to contribute to. Many municipalities have gone ahead with a very good example. I can mention both the municipality of Stavanger and the municipality of Skien, which has good arrangements today for guidance from teachers. Our goal is to implement this. It shall not be incidental, non-discriminatory and shall not be unstructured. It should be proper, with a good follow-up of the newly educated teacher. I must also say that in the proposal for a budget for the year, we have proposed a rise in the category of funding for teacher training, so that each teacher training institution receives NOK 16 000 more per year. study places in relation to what you had in the past — a big boost that in a few years will be more than 100 million. and contribute to the excellence of the education of new teachers, for that is what they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e288	I thank you for your answer. All that is done in relation to teacher training is very important. But what the newly educated teachers say is that it's when they get into real life and experience teaching, that they really need to have an experienced teacher to join. When she or he is in the classroom, reality can be very different from what the teacher is able to illustrate. I'm surprised that the government, when what many other countries allow to become a duty and a right, accepts that this goes out as an offer, that they've only made an intentional agreement, and with it they believe they've got a national guidance system. Isn't it time to put this into a structure that makes it mandatory, that it becomes a right, and that it becomes a duty, because we see that this gives incredibly good results for newly educated teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e299	It's going to be a right. It's all in the new teacher's training. When the first teachers are trained from the new teacher training, we are absolutely sure that we have all this in place. But in the meantime, we have to take the steps necessary to bring with us both the municipalities, as school owners, and the teacher's organisations, because this is in the frontier country between a negotiating issue and an obligation issue. Here we have good contact with the parties involved, both the KS and the teacher organisations, in order to achieve the best possible common and structured arrangement, so that this will be a good offer and a right for everyone. We're also discussing other sides here to get even more right-wing talk on the system. For the time being, however, the objective is to be part of the new teacher training. It must be put in place as soon as possible, but at least within the first newly-trained teachers it must come from the new teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e306	There will be three follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e310	‘Instruction of newly educated teachers will require both money and time’, she said in an opinion delivered in our opinion from the European Commission. They further believe that guidance from newly educated teachers will require both investment and time. It is pointed out that new trainees need to reduce the workload without pay cuts, and that supervisors need to have enough time to guide. Good guidance is very demanding, and must not be seen as a job that comes to the top of the education. If money and time are not earmarked, it goes beyond the quality of the guidance, it's called from the Commission. Then I wonder: What is the reason why the government, contrary to all recommendations, has agreed that guidance should not trigger money from the state to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e317	I fully agree with the representative's description. The point of guidance is just to guide the teacher. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether this should be something, for example. experienced teachers do just before they retire, when they still want to step down their reading duties and their teaching time, or whether there should be younger teachers doing so. It'll depend on how to fix it at each school. However, the question of resources for this is a question that is discussed both in relation to the ability of municipalities to follow up as a school owner and, as I mentioned to the previous representative, in relation to any question of negotiation between the teacher organisations and their employers. We're moving in an area where we're discussing both the follow-up to an agreement of intent and a possible economic solution to this. My goal is to get this in place at the same time as the first graduates from the new teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e322	There will be three additional follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e325	Yesterday. 10 came the budget. I don't know. 18 had been reversed by the government in relation to the proposal for the flat-rate payment of study aid. The council explained that she had not put any prestige in that matter, and that it was not wanted by the students. Now it is probably the case that both the government’s structure for mentoring and the continuing training of teachers has not – to put it that way – made teachers’ organisations muted by admiration either. It would then be interesting to know, in this important issue of empowerment for the most important actors in Norwegian knowledge activities, whether there would be room for improvement in the budget. Or has the Council of State placed too much prestige in that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e332	In this context, I believe that a certain recognition can be given to the Council of State for the rapid handling of cases. It was a matter to which we hoped that there was absolutely no merit attached. That was the way the study aid was to be paid. Therefore, yesterday we made a decision that we would keep the old scheme. Now it's the way that my responsibility is the education of teachers. There is no local economy or any result of wage negotiations. That's why I have done my part of the job by increasing the possibility of better teacher training by raising one category of our cost key and giving a better payoff to the educational institutions of the teachers they have to teach. I have also contributed to the fact that not only the teachers who come out with new education are better qualified, but that we also train supervisors. It's the responsibility of the colleges. I've done that job too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e339	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e342	The SSB has drawn a rather gloomy picture of the future situation. We could be missing 18 000 teachers in 2020 if we don't play our cards right in the years to come. That means we don't have one new teacher to lose. It means that it's vital that we also get the guidance the Stortinge wanted for newly educated teachers. The right is very impatient after the scheme is put in place, and it is very worrying that so few municipalities have sent employees and used the training offered for the guidance of teachers. Does not the Council of State also see that this is now in the process of bringing us into a situation of A and B municipalities – the municipalities that train supervisors, who can set up more attractive employers and accept newly educated teachers in a completely different way, and the municipalities that have failed to train supervisors, where newly educated teachers are thus largely left to themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e347	I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am very pleased that in the budget proposal yesterday we were able to get up with 2,200 new places of study, and of them a significant proportion are earmarked for teachers. We're definitely doing the job we can with more teachers, and we've done that by prioritizing these for new places of study. As far as the guidance system for new graduates is concerned, I have responded to it in the past. There is a question of following up the municipalities. We have a good dialogue with KS on that question, and I want to be the last one to find out that there is a big difference between the municipalities. I want it to be stimulating, and that there should be good, attractive arrangements both for the teachers who come out, and for those supervisors who are actually also educated by our colleges and institutions. It is not just the municipality's course that educates supervisors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e354	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e357	I will first take the opportunity to boast of the Council of State's ability to turn around. The left has faith in the public debate and the drafting of positions by the public debate. Maybe other departments should learn from the state council that's here now. My question is related to the main question that was asked about this guidance proposal, which we in the Left's view are very good. It should really be carried out with great gravity. But the warning we get from both the organisations in the field and a lot of worried teachers is that you can't recruit people for this, because this isn't enough money for this. So the teachers on the ground plane warn the Left system that this isn't going to mobilize enough of the good, old, tanned teachers, who can stand in the classroom, to do this job. Can the Council of State guarantee that she can get so many teachers to do the job with so little money?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e364	I want to make it clear once again that my responsibility is education of teachers. In the new teacher training there is a very clear case about guidance for the newly educated. I want to do absolutely what I can to get all the municipalities involved in this when we're done with the first litter of those who have now started the new teacher training. In the meantime, we're not going to relax. I thank the representative for his recognition of follow-up and quick decisions. The speed at which we can decide in this area will depend both on the economy of the municipalities — and they have got quite a lot to school — and on the negotiating situation and the relationship with the teachers’ organisations’ views on this. So the relationship between teacher organisations, KS and the Ministry of Knowledge is a crucial triangle in this process. We're in the middle of this work, and I'm doing what I can to get things in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e372	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e375	I want to ask questions to the Council of State Breck. In the last ten years, Norwegian taxpayers have spent over 1 billion. kr for the reindeer industry through the reindeer management agreement. Today, we have almost 100,000 more domestic animals than has been decided by the Storting, despite the fact that the authorities have threatened forced slaughter if not together themselves reduced the number of animals. Now, state councillor Breck has gone in with nearly 10 million. kr of taxpayers’ money to buy up 330 tonnes of reindeer meat from private slaughterhouses in Finland. This despite the fact that the Council of State stated in the Business of Today on 24 September: «Reindeer meat is priced too high and industry has destroyed itself by cleaning out the delicacy as a frozen product.» While Norwegian salmon are sold for record prices on the continent, there are practically no exports of reindeer meat. Breck also expresses to the same newspaper the following: ‘There is no more reindeer meat in Norway than the large enough domestic market.’ Can the Council of State elaborate and justify why he has to go in and buy up 330 tonnes of reindeer meat from private slaughterhouses while not wanting to export abroad and with it get a very good price for the meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e394	The actual situation is that the Norwegian Rein driftsssamers Landsförbund, NRL, and the State have conducted exceptional negotiations. We reached agreement on 20 September on an additional protocol to the reindeer management agreement for 2010-2011. What a concrete agreement has been reached is the establishment of an exceptional freight subsidy, an agreement with Nortura on the purchase of 212 whole slaughter and 120 tonnes of small meat and fin beef, and the strengthening of areas of activity in the pure value creation programme to ensure increased slaughter and placing on the market of reindeer meat. The background to this exceptional negotiation is that the market situation for re-meat has become extremely difficult. Mainly, there is a Finnmark problem, but Finnmark is also the core area for Norwegian reindeer farming. At the beginning of the 2010-2011 slaughter season, there were about 550 to 600 tonnes of reindeer meat in stock, representing about one third of the annual slaughter volume. The point is that there is a redistribution of funds already agreed to be a transfer to the reindeer industry. One has redispatched the means to ensure increased withdrawals in a difficult situation. Of course, a fear, if you don't get an increase in the output of pure, that one gets problems with the reindeer number of widths. The main point is that market measures are a responsibility for the industry and the actors in the value chain. Since neither the target price nor the market regulation of reindeer meat exists, the operators operate in the value chain for reindeer meat within a free market. That's the starting point, so these actors have every opportunity to carry out exports, if desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e403	It's a little strange to say that the state should go in and buy up meat. When we talk to the industry itself, both the slaughterhouses and the chains, like REMA 1000 and the Norway Group, they say that they want the state to keep its fingers off the barrel and let them regulate it themselves and sell at the price they are going to. The price of reindeer meat is 40 p.m. today. higher than in, inter alia: our neighbouring country Sweden. Why? Well, Sweden is so lucky that they don't have State Councillor Lars Peder Breck there, who is so far in and using their policies by setting up prices. I also wonder why the Minister of Agriculture may not be so great that perhaps minimum pensioners and young children’s parents are allowed to buy and enjoy delicious reindeer with gooseberries and almond potatoes. He doesn't love us. My question to the Council of State is: why does Lars Peder Breck let the free market forces stop working?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e410	In order to draw the attention of the representative Tåldal to the actual situation, it is in fact the reindeer industry itself that is responsible within that market for the marketing and price setting and for ensuring that there is a reduction. It is not a responsibility of the state, and it is not that the Minister of Agriculture can put prices on the market. I agree with the representative, Treldal, that probably the price level for reindeer meat has been too high. That's what I said. The main point now is that the reindeer industry itself pays for this purchase by redeploying funds that one already has at its disposal over the reindeer management agreement – a reindeer management agreement that is otherwise adopted in this Stortinget. So I think it's important to keep my tongue right in my mouth, and we've had it in the department this time anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e417	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e420	There can be no doubt that a state interference, and not least the use of money, has not led to anything particularly positive for the reindeer industry. Stocks are large and difficult to sell, and there is talk of a major crisis in the industry. At the same time, others, without the involvement of the State, have made agreements with, for example: REMA 1000, and they produce and sell everything they can. Then my specific question becomes to the Council of State, with a hopefully concrete answer: what will the Council of State do to enable the reindeer industry to operate in a sensible manner without interference from the state, and where the market, i.e. The demand for these products, is production controlled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e427	I will repeat it: in fact, it is the reindeer industry itself that under existing agreements is responsible for market work and price fixing, and also to ensure that there is a clarification of the quantities available. Through the reindeer management agreement, we have redispatched resources to ensure that the withdrawal is increased, and one has thus improved the situation. I want to give praise to part of the food chain that has addressed the challenge and increased the turnover of reindeer meat, among others. REMA 1000, mentioned here. They did so, among other things. After I called them to a meeting on 22 June in the evening at Gardermoen, to focus on the challenges, and to work together between the industry and the daily food industry to increase turnover. So here the food industry has taken hold of the situation, here the industry itself has taken hold of the situation, and here we have contributed in a positive way to ensure that we achieve what we all want: to get a greater reduction in reindeer meat in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e436	Frank Bakke-Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e439	Here one can get the impression that the Council of State is only responsible for the times you have positive actions, with meetings at the Gardermoen and stuff. Then I would like to remind the Council of State that we obtained market access early in the 1980s by joiking at the Melodi Grand Prix. The councils may also put it on the CV, and take it with them as one of their successful arenas! There is no doubt that when the department intervenes through the reindeer management agreement and agricultural policy instruments, the picture is complicated. It can't be possible to ignore it. In addition, we know that the reindeer industry is now facing challenges. We have an oil and energy minister traveling around and building wind farms, in large places, and we have a Minister of Industry who is now traveling around and is going to do a great deal of mineral extraction. I'm not going to discuss these millions you've used, and the meat that's bought, but does the Council have any visions about how to help the reindeer industry in what's becoming a more difficult and difficult situation, when you're not going to bet on exports, and when you're not going to use the market as a tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e448	For the sake of order only: Joik is a member of the Ministry of Culture [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e452	I thought I'd try to say that I need a course in joiking, because unfortunately I can't! To put it back in place again: in fact, it is the reindeer industry itself that is responsible for market measures. The contribution that one has made through this redispatch under the reindeer management agreement is to increase the extraction of clean in a situation where there was too much stock, to ensure that the reindeer operators were paid, and so that we got more flow in production. I hope that works, and that means that the reindeer industry itself has contributed to paying through redisposal. What's important in the future is to reduce the reindeer in the Finnmark range. We work through rules of use, and through the law that exists, in order to ensure that the industry itself takes responsibility for the reindeer numbers, thus creating a sustainable nourishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e461	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e464	I would strongly urge the Minister of Agriculture to read the record from what he has spent time talking about here now, about the reindeer industry, because the reason that the Council of State uses for not doing anything or not intervening, or for not intervening, is, as he himself says, that it is the reindeer industry itself that controls this. No, that's not it. For the very reindeer management agreement, that framework is laid down, and there is a framework to be set by the ministry, and not least by the Council of State. And when you don't accept that the market should be able to regulate this, we get the results that we now see. My question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State, in the context of the next year's reindeer management agreement, ensure that some of these mechanisms are relaxed so that the consumer can have access to cheaper reindeer meat? Because it's obvious that when it accumulates in stock, you have to lower the price for people to buy. You can't let the state go in and buy because the price is still high and no one wants the meat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e471	I repeat that market measures are a responsibility for the industry and the actors in the value chain. The contribution made by the State through the redispatch of the reindeer management agreement is to ensure that the industry itself pays for the extraction of larger quantities from the slaughterhouses — that is to say, the operators in Finnmark. We have worked actively to increase the turnover of reindeer meat, we have, as I mentioned earlier, met with the daily food industry, with the actors there, and we have also made sure, through this adjustment to the reindeer management agreement, that there are greater reductions. I am concerned that we are going to use the reindeer meat, which represents approx. 1.6 pst. of the meat market, in a real way, because it is a fantastic product. The industry will then have to find solutions to the price increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e480	Before we go to the next main question, which is asked by the representative Henning Warloe, the president will inform us that we have a visit to the gallery today by the meeting leadership in the Sametinget. They are cordially welcome to the Storting. They're here to have various meetings with us, and I appreciate that they're following us from the gallery. So to the extent that someone today thinks about talking for the gallery, it has something to do with the questions we've been dealing with! Then is the next main question, from Henning Warloe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e485	I have a question for the state council Aasland. Norway participates in many important cooperation programmes on education and research under the direction of the EU. On several occasions, the government has underlined the importance of this, most recently when the Tora Aasland Council briefed the European Commission on 27 April this year. Such important cooperation is Erasmus Mundus, also known as the Fulbright programme of Europe. It shall promote academic cooperation and contribute to social and economic development. The programme also includes third world countries, such as China, India, Brazil and African countries. Erasmus Mundus has three areas of action, of which area 2, partnerships, includes exchanges of students, young researchers, teachers and professors. Norwegian universities participate actively in the rest of the programme. Many were therefore surprised when they discovered that they were excluded from Action Line 2 because the government would not pay Norway’s share to participate. Norway has previously participated in similar programmes, and Norwegian universities have several partnerships globally. The universities have obviously not been asked before the decision and have not been informed afterwards. Both NTNU and the University of Bergen have now had to decline the invitation to participate in projects that would be strategically important. For NTNU, this concerns, among other things: on partnerships with Indian universities. In addition, Norway therefore refuses to contribute to the development of the educational field in poor countries. What is the strategy behind the government’s decision not to participate in Erasmus Mundus’ partnership actions, and why was the decision taken at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e498	It is an important part of the strategy for universities and higher education to have an internationalisation programme. This means cooperation, for example: for student exchange with other countries. We've worked a lot on it. There are, of course, European programmes, to which the representative refers, but we have also worked on this to ensure that every one of our educational sites and every one of our educational institutions has a thoughtful and good strategy for internationalisation. It often turns out that direct institution for institutional cooperation and a strategy in relation to it provide better counting for students and for researchers than being involved in larger organisational associations. We are not negatively inclined to Erasmus Mundus. This is a priority issue in relation to the budgets that exist at all times, and we are following them closely. We have in no way opted out of this, but we have encouraged our institutions to develop their own strategies for their internationalisation programmes. We are going to follow up on the Erasmus Mundus programme in the future, but it is true that we have not granted extra funding for this in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e507	I thank you for the answer, but I still think – like those who work in this sector – that it is very difficult to understand that Norway should not be part of this one part of what is thus the most important programme in this field in the EU. The government itself, at the latest in the budget we received from the Ministry of Knowledge yesterday, underlines the importance of participating in these cooperations in the EU. I could quote from the budget document, but the Council of State obviously knows the text well. Announcement of this important cooperation appears not only unsolvable, since it involves cooperation with the Third World, but also directly unreasonable. We know what is happening in countries like China and India and the importance of Norwegian educational institutions being on the road here. So this just seems to be incomprehensible. But it's not too late to turn around. I would encourage the Council of State to assess this in the context of a new EU call in March 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e516	I thank the representative for the call and will of course follow it up. But I would like to stress the importance of the government's view is that the individual institution has an independent programme and an independent strategy in relation to both student exchange and research cooperation. So that's what we've encouraged. But part of it is of course also to be part of the international superstructures above this, so we're going to follow up. I take seriously the representative's request to follow it up in the future to see how we may also have the opportunity in the future to invite to the type of cooperation that we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e521	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e524	The representative of Warloe was sure that the Council knew the text of the budget. I think I'm going to repeat it for sure, because now I was a little in doubt: ‘In order to make Norway an attractive knowledge nation and partners, international education, together with increased international mobility in research education, is necessary. Participation in the EU Framework Programme and the development of the European Research Area is a key priority for the internationalisation of Norwegian research.» [[ERA]] So participation in such programmes should definitely be in the middle of the picture. So the Council of State says that institutions must have their own strategies. Yes, they have made their own strategies, put down a lot of work and participated in it because they were involved. They've had their own strategies, and Warloe asked a question: why is the decision not to be taken further on top of those who have made their own strategies? This is bad use of resources!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e535	As I said in the answer to Warloe: this is at any time a budgetary question, because this particular programme has a relatively demanding financial effort in it. This does not mean that they are not involved in EU cooperation, both in research and in student exchanges. This is one programme, and there are several opportunities to be involved in the EU context. And it is perfectly obvious that all our institutions should have an international cooperation strategy that extends far beyond what the EU has. That's what we encourage our institutions to do when we, for example. invites international cooperation with Latin American countries, with the United States and Canada and with Asian countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e540	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e543	Let me start by giving honor to the council because she often says a lot about internationalization. It's not always the action that indicates that you follow up on everything that's positive. Erasmus Mundus is an example. Another thing is that weak basic funding primarily in the institute sector, but also to universities, makes it difficult to pay a proportion of the costs to participate in some projects. The fact that there is also little opportunity to take lower-level studies in a wide range of countries with full scholarships is another problem. Yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs told the evening post that Brazil, Russia, India and China will become important areas of activity for Norway in the future. Do the State Councils for Higher Education and Research agree? And in that case, what consequences will there be for the opportunities to receive grants for lower-level studies in Brazil, Russia, India and China?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e552	It is an important part of our internationalisation that I am pleased that the representative is also aware that we have. It is an important part of it that we of course facilitate both lower and higher degree studies for students who want to take all or part of their study abroad. And as the study funding scheme is now, it is fully possible. What will always be a question of conflict is whether you get paid — or get a scholarship — for the very first year. But otherwise, our study support scheme from the State Loan Fund is one of the very best in the world, and we are working on quality lists of the places of study in the countries mentioned, with which we want Norwegian institutions to cooperate. So it's a clear goal on our part that we want both Brazil, Russia, India and China as countries of cooperation, and that we don't see any particular challenges in terms of student funding for those countries. I've even talked to students in these countries who think they're doing very well. We want us to move on and get even more students out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e557	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-06.ana.ud1757e570	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
