ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the VAO Material Defence and Project Acquisition F-35. The AO took place on 4 February. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Defence. Thank you for joining us. We have six speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group. Like everyone else, she has two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We debated equipment projects and the F-35 a few weeks ago. We also talked about how it is that the Secretary of State is constantly in crisis with other governments. In this particular case, we are not talking about Zeeland or Zeeland, but about the province government in Friesland. Friesland, Overijssel and parts of Gelderland have become very angry because the press has communicated that there will be a low-fly route for the F-35 with a lot of noise and nuisance for residents. In the debate, the Secretary of State stated that there is no nature permit yet and that it is not yet certain that the air force wants to use this route. She said: I think the odds are very small; quiet, quiet, wait. But if the opportunity is very small and the concerns of 2002 about safety and nuisance are still present, then the Secretary of State has one thing to do in my party, namely to withdraw the possibility of this low-flying route. For that, my colleague John Kerstens will also table a motion on behalf of my party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u3	Thank you. I call Mr Bosman of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u4	Mr. Chairman. We talked about Friesland's concerns. People are concerned about what is to be decided, about the agreements that are to be made and about the agreements that can be made. That is why it is important to clarify quickly. The Secretary of State has made a number of promises, but I have taken the liberty of putting it in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Air Force must have been trained in all forms of operations, including low-flying;]] [[Whereas low-flying route 10a, which runs from the north of the province of Friesland along Zwolle and Deventer to Winterswijk, is no longer in use since 2002;]] [[noting that low-flying route 10a was suspended in 2002 on the basis of safety and noise restrictions;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of the above limitations, the inhabitants concerned are entitled to rapid clarification of the plans for the future of low-flying route 10a;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify as soon as possible the need for the Air Force to use low-flight route 10a and thereby to clarify the situation for the inhabitants concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bosman, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Voordewind, Mr Diks and Mr Belhaj.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26488-457]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that the lack of communication from the Ministry of Defence has become sufficiently clear. In the meantime, all kinds of discussion and unrest have arisen, widely spread throughout the Netherlands. Unfortunately, due to other commitments, I could not attend the AO to which this VAO refers, but it is clear that the discussion that has arisen about the possible opening up of a new or, rather, old low-flying route in Friesland has led to very serious unrest, and I understand that too. It feels terrible when you are passed by by the driver who may have power over that region. That's not the way I wish the Secretary of State would take this. I hope she really wants to talk to the region of Fryslân, just like she did in Gilze and Rijen. I have a motion in front of me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that after years of shrinking, Defence is growing again, and that this means that Defence will (re-) re-use areas in the coming years, make more use of Dutch airspace and will exercise more often;]] [[Considering that the expansion of defence activities can cause significant nuisance for residents, and it is important that the support for the activities of Defence is maintained as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with all stakeholders in local government, for example in the field of terrain, flight movements or intensification of exercises, in accordance with the applicable deadlines and methodology of the Environment Act, to leave room for participation by residents, and to take into account, where possible, the interests of residents in the final decision-making process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26488-458]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u6	And I sincerely hope, Mr President, that this Secretary of State will also take care of it soon...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u7	Hohohohoho. Is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported? I note that this is the case. Then it is part of the debate. Unless that was all in your motion, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u8	No, no. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u9	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u10	I had already said "over to the order of the day," I think. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State to take a quick look at the environmental permit for the airport at Leeuwarden, because I can even remember from my previous work that we talked about that back then. We really need to take action on that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u11	Very good. Thank you. Then there is Mr Kerstens of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Defence wants more recognition of society for all the important work that is being done, and rightly so. DOD is doing a lot of important work for your and my safety. It would be extremely helpful if the Defence Department also showed itself to society on its best side, for example as a good neighbour when it comes to enlargement plans or whatever. Too often it goes wrong, this time in Friesland. We discussed this extensively in general consultation a while back. As my colleague Mrs Karabulut has already announced, I have a motion for a resolution. It is intended to clarify very quickly, in a way other than the motion that Mr Bosman has read out, because that motion calls for clarity and we also indicate in this motion what that clarity should consist of towards the inhabitants of Friesland, Gelderland, Drenthe and Overijssel. I see I still have a minute. That's just enough for reading the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there has been a great deal of concern about the possible reactivation by Defence of a low-flying route over the North and East Netherlands since 2002, as well as the way in which this has been made public;]] [[Whereas, on the contrary, the objections at that time relating to the route in question were not removed;]] [[Whereas confidence in Defence as a good neighbour towards local authorities and local residents has been damaged by what has happened in this area as well as on other occasions....................................................................................................................................................................]] [[calls on the Government to definitively waive the above-mentioned re-use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26488-459]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u13	Mr President, you must not give away my dreams! No, I'm not. I have the honour to replace Mr Van Helvert, who is present in an international chamber today. But I think this is such an important subject that I would like to say a few words about it. Because we are subject to a motion, so I think it is a good idea to give an explanation. As a Brabant, I know only too well how worried one can be about flight routes and altitudes of planes. So it is very important that people are made clear quickly. We know that the Secretary of State has done her best to make this very clear in general consultation, but let us be honest, there are some ripples in confidence as to whether communication is going well. That is why it is sometimes important to table a motion. That is why we have done so. We do hope that the Secretary of State can embrace it generously and that we can make it clear quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u14	Clear, thank you very much. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Belhaj of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u15	Mr. Chairman. It is good that, as a result of a good general consultation, we have a VAO today, so I can make two important comments. As my colleagues have pointed out, there are concerns about the announcement that low-flying routes will be used in the vicinity of Friesland. We have expressed our concerns about this. I have also indicated that I am very concerned, because our airmen are very keen to talk about how well civil aviation should grow and at the same time the F-35s come to the Netherlands. That means there's a lot of practice to be had. I have a feeling that these two worlds aren't gonna come together completely unless there's trouble. That is why I asked whether it would be possible to talk more about this, starting with a technical briefing. I will make that request to my colleagues at the procedural meeting so that we can see the impact of the arrival of the F-35, but also how we ensure that defence is not pressed into anything because civil aviation does not really take into account the fact that we simply have a legal task. At least I want to make sure of that. I supported Mr Bosman's motion from the VVD. Finally, in the AA, I drew attention to a number of measures arising from our own initiative paper on the energy strategy in the procurement of equipment. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that he will report to the Chamber before 1 June. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u16	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u17	I have a question on what is meant by 'clearness': calls on the government to clarify as soon as possible the need for the air force for the possible entry into service of low-flying route 10a and thus to clarify the situation for the inhabitants concerned. What is meant by "clearness"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u18	Clarity as to whether the Secretary of State and the Ministry intend to take those low-fly routes into operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u19	Yes, but the Secretary of State has said: I cannot give that clarity now; nor can I completely rule it out. What kind of clarity would you like to give to the inhabitants? Do you think that, if necessary, the low-fly routes should be put into operation or not, given all the objections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u20	I think that's a very short turn of events. This motion is also there, because it's a little strange if you just say: yes, we just have to see whether that decision is made or not. We think it is important to clarify this as soon as possible. That it has no preference goes without saying. But I am not going out of my head right now, without knowing exactly what the consequences are and how those flight routes run, saying: I am against that. That is exactly why I want an extensive technical briefing, namely to ensure that we have that insight. When the Secretary of State says "we're not gonna do that, because it's extremely unhappy," well, we're gonna celebrate together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u21	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u22	Finally. Can Mrs Belhaj then clarify the clarity she wishes? At what time would the Secretary of State have to give that clarity, according to her?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u23	I would like the Secretary of State to clarify today. That would be great, because it's a bad thing. It really causes a lot of unrest among a lot of residents. It would be fantastic if the Secretary of State did that today. Then that motion will be carried out before it is passed. Otherwise, we'll have to do it as soon as possible. I indicated at the committee meeting that if you used to train a lot in Canada, you wouldn't do that anymore and therefore look for alternatives in the Netherlands, which should be on the table. Because it may be that you decide not to do those training courses in the Netherlands, but in places where that space is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u24	Fine. Then we move on in a smooth motion to the Secretary of State. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to proceed immediately to the assessment of the motions. The first motion, in part No. 457, requesting clarity. In the debate we had with each other on the low-fly routes, I indicated that it was written too quickly in the note of reply published and that there was still the Air Force investigation into the usefulness and need for reactivation of this low-flying route. I would like to wait and see, because I always think that if a military unit indicates that there might be a need for something, whether it be training areas, airports or whatever, you should take a serious look at it. But I also said that the route was shut down in 2002 because of noise and also because of safety. As far as I am concerned, these are always the two conditions under which I will also assess such a proposal. For this reason, and also in response to questions from Mr Kerstens, I indicated that I would like to clarify this as soon as possible. I have also said that, in the context of the application for the nature permit, there is a preliminary route to all kinds of studies for the ecological test. This is broader than just the low-fly routes; this is also about all kinds of other military aviation activities. In reply to Mrs Karabulut's question, I would say that as far as I am concerned, the sooner the better. I believe that it is indeed important for people to be clear about this as soon as possible. As a result of the discussion that has arisen, we have also been to the other provinces during the last period to explain and to explain how we want to deal with this. I actually want to take over the motion, because this is in line with the commitment I have already made in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u26	The Bosman c.s. motion. (, No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u27	The second motion, in part No. 458, is Mrs. Diks'. She's about engaging the environment. I would like to make two comments. The motion is fairly broad. I agree with Mrs Diks: Defence must be a good neighbor. Mr. Kerstens said the same thing. After all, defense is everywhere in the Netherlands. On the one hand, a lot of people are very proud of Defence, but on the other hand, we also realize that the presence of Defence can sometimes be accompanied by nuisance, for example by exercises, by flying or by whatever. The motion is now very broad. I would ask Mrs Diks to allow this only to apply if it is major changes. Can I interpret the motion like that? 'Cause we do exercises all the time, of course. Internationally, it is also simply announced. So may I interpret the motion in such a way that this simply applies to major changes? There is also the Environment Act. The petitioner must realise that we also have a deadline for implementation. This applies to all governments. That is what we are going to do in that context. But I would also like to say to Mrs Diks that it cannot be done at once, also in the context of the Environment Act. That law will, of course, be implemented in the coming period. And with the establishment of the National Real Estate Company, the full capacity of Defence for environmental management has gone to the National Real Estate Company. So it really takes a while to build this up. So may I interpret the motion as follows? Mrs Diks asks that this be done in the case of major changes covered by the Environment Act. That's what the motion says. If I can interpret her like that, I'll give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u28	I can imagine, because of course I do not mean that this also applies to very small changes. Then the defense should continue to fill in all kinds of new structures. But I will come to the interrupting microphone for a while, because it should not be an escape in that sense, where we end up in a discussion about what is big, and what is small. That would be too lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u30	I sincerely hope that will not happen. It is true, of course, that the law applies to everyone, and therefore also to the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u32	So just during transition periods on the way to the Environment Act, the Defense Department is supposed to abide by this. And there is, of course, a great deal of doubt about this at the moment, for example in Friesland, with the Air Force Base environmental permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u33	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u34	Will the motion now be judged Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u35	Yeah, she gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u36	Your conditions are therefore met. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u37	Yes. I'll come to the motion in part No. 459. In the debate with Mr Kerstens and Mrs Karabulut, I believe that I have the intention to clarify as quickly as possible, and that is true as far as I am concerned: the sooner, the better. That's what I just said. But I'm not ready to say I'm not going to reactivate the route. I just said that I think that the air force should also be given the opportunity to indicate whether or not there is a need. If it turns out that there is no need at all, then we will not enter this route at all. If there is a need, I will assess it on the basis of the two conditions, namely aviation safety and noise pollution. I have already said that I do not see that these conditions have changed so quickly since 2002. I therefore consider the opportunity to do so to be very limited. But I also think that the Chamber should also give the Air Force a chance to work out in a proper way what would be necessary for reactivation. However, I have also said that I do not see it so quickly. So I'm dissuading the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u38	The motion in part No. 459 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u39	That is very painful, all the more so because another crucial mistake has been made here, in my view. At the same time, the Secretary of State says that it is quite impossible for this low-fly route to be put back into operation, but that it does not want to rule it out. I would like the Secretary of State at least today to clarify the time limit for the decision to be taken or to remain open or to definitively exclude the low-flying route. Can she name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u40	First half of this year. That is also what I indicated in the debate towards Mr Kerstens. So by June 1st at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u41	Clear. Mr Kerstens, briefly, pointy, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u42	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u43	You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u44	Thank you. I understand that yesterday there was a discussion with the governments of the north and the east of the country. There has been talk of a moment at the end of March. Then there could be that clarity. That's already a win over July 1st. If, at that point, it turns out that in the future, Defence does not need that low-fly route, does that mean that the clarity that the Secretary of State is going to provide consists of the phrase "we are definitely going to abandon it"? I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u45	I don't know. There are two routes. One course is that the air force must indicate what the need is and whether there is any point and need to reactivate. The other is that under the nature permit law, which is broad, there is a preliminary trajectory. He'll take care of the ecological test. These are two routes that run, one of which probably ended a little earlier than the other. Those two things we need to combine. That is why I indicated: before 1 June. It also depends on how I'm going to interpret the weighting. How real is the Air Force need? What's it for, and what does it mean? Two: if we were to reactivate the route, under what conditions? That is what I made clear in the debate. I'll hold it against that. With that decision, I also promised you, I will return to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u46	In order to avoid new confusion: surely it will not be the case that if the inventory of Defence shows that there is no such need, the other procedure will continue? I assume it will then be stopped, because it is about the possible reactivation of the low-flying route. If Defense itself says there's no need for it, then I think at that point you can just clarify: okay, we're not gonna do it, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u47	I suggest we just come to you with the total package. Then you can also take note of it yourself, also to see if you just leave it as it is now, but then you have to comply with all the permits and procedures or let go of the route completely. However, I believe that this should be done carefully and sent to you on the basis of the two studies. That's what I promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u48	Fine. So much for this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-31.u49	Thank you to the Secretary of State for her presence. On Tuesday we shall vote on the two remaining motions.
