ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the EZK budget, including the National Growth Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u2	I see that a number of Members want to ask a question right away. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman, because I understand that she wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u3	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. At 1.45 p.m., a very large set of answers was received to the questions asked in the first period. First of all, thank you incredibly for those answers, because I can imagine that's a lot of work. In that short time we have not been able to read the answers. So I had a little discussion with my colleagues about what's useful. We can take a 15-minute break so we can take a quick look at what has been answered to our questions. Another option is that we ask more questions during the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really want to prolong the debate, but we do have a problem now, because we really have not been able to read the document in five minutes. 57 pages is just a bit much. I would imagine that we could suspend for another 15 minutes, so that we could study the questions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u4	I see several Members with understanding noddings. Shall we do it like this? Here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u6	I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes. We'll continue at 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u7	I hope that Members have indeed been able to devote time to taking up the comprehensive package. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the first time. I would suggest to the Members of Parliament that we try to do with four interruptions in two, with a brief closing remark. But I think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u8	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. The letter came shortly in advance. I thought it was a very practical solution; thank you. We're dealing with a lot of people who have a lot to do. The debate was put forward a little bit, but you wanted to be able to read the package as a Chamber. Thank you for all the reflections, openness about concerns and the many questions of yesterday. Mrs Keijzer and I are here in what is probably the last missionary budget debate in the cabinet. It has been a stormy period in recent years. We started off the gas in Groningen. Then we went off the gas in the houses, but then up to 2050; many people have still mixed that up. Then we concluded the Climate Agreement with just about everyone in society at the table, or on the phone. And when I first started the economy, there was corona. That was something. But I thought, while it is the last time and so much has happened to us, perhaps I will also try not only to address your concerns during this debate and during my response, but also to address them, because I am not without concern. And a good debate between government and parliament about these concerns might not be so crazy on such a last time. Here's what I wanted to do. I wanted to start with the economy and, in the wake of that, some things about the Growth Fund. There will also be a separate debate on this, but some things do fit in with economic thinking. After that, I wanted to treat climate and energy. I start with the economy, and then I start with prosperity. But also for prosperity, as with climate, there is a need for support. There is already an important question. I think that, in this Chamber, we have, in general, a positive appreciation of, at least, the level of prosperity. We all see that it contributes to the financing of collective arrangements. We also see that it somehow provides a basis for our way of life, in which we can also concentrate on other steps of the Maslow ladder than just eating, for example safety, legal certainty, democracy, living environment and education. With a mark on the list, I'm looking Mr. Van Raan at nature. Yeah, it's on the list. And perhaps there is also a growing agreement on how that prosperity should be accumulated. I see that Mr Van Raan wants to interrupt, but perhaps he can do that after this block, because then there is enough for him to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thanks for the word. I would like to say something at the beginning, because at the end of the block the Minister has already put down his structure, his frame. One of the things he's trying to suggest between his nose and his lips now, but maybe he's gonna correct it... is that in the pyramid of Maslow nature can't be dealt with until we've done the rest, when it might be at the base. Can that also be a difference of opinion between the Animal Party and the Minister, or does the Minister also say 'no, it is really a basic condition that we have that nature in order'? I'm gonna ask you before he fills out that frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u12	This is getting a little philosophical. I was trying to tell Mr Van Raan that it is widely recognised in this Chamber, and also in the government, that more attention is also needed for nature and biodiversity. That's what I'm saying. Let him take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mr. Chairman. About the way in which we gain our prosperity, we all see more and more............................................................................................................................................................................................... There are also positions on the labour market that we need to review. We all see that there is a lack of consensus and there is also a certain consensus on this. There is also a growing common awareness of what threatens our prosperity: economic insecurity, unfair competition, from Asia, for example, trade barriers that arise, the Brexit, the lagging productivity in southern Europe, cybercrime and pandemics. We are also broadly convinced of that. But when I follow the public debate, it sometimes seems as if the appreciation for prosperity and for economy is gone. Big companies are in any case long out of favour, the banks preceded them, but the industry was a quick follower in falling down on the popularity ladder. Economics is a swear word, while my thesis is always: economy is not about money, but about usefulness and about consideration within purpose. In the end, it's about our happiness. Let me take a look at the President to see if there is any point in starting another paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u15	I think you could wait a moment, because I would like to give Mr Verhoeven of D66 an opportunity for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u16	I could have waited until the end of the block, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u17	Yeah, I could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u18	But I think the Minister says something very important. I would like to ask a question about that. He says there's some kind of feeling that how growth is translated to prosperity is somehow changing. He said after that: the banks and the big companies have long been discredited. I think it is true that there has been a changing feeling in this Chamber for a certain part of the business community. I also notice this in my own party and even in the minister's party and in many other parties. This has not to do with the fact that we have started to find money dirty, but with the fact that the distribution of wealth has become increasingly a problem in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u19	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u20	My question to the Minister is: what is the government doing to give up the support for earning in this respect? How do they improve the distribution and explaining that earning is necessary in order to be able to distribute? That is what has been lacking in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u21	Well, I'm trying, among other things, to do something about that with this contribution, because my point is that you have to earn it first. A lot of our conversations are about publishing and redistributing, which isn't weird at all, but we also have to earn it. A negative halo... You can be critical about a lot of things, but it's not "the big companies" that do it. It's our way of life that's made the molecules fly around us. We wear, use and eat products that have had effects somewhere in the chain that we have not included in the price and that the eater, user or carrier may never have meant. That's not someone's fault, but we need to change that with each other. We can only do that if we fix this with each other in a positive way. I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u22	Okay. If the Minister is going to say more about the relationship between sharing and earning, with the aim of making a future in which we are going to earn in a way that many people understandably see as a way for them to get a little more of that prosperity, and so the distribution becomes more important, then I would like the Minister to comment on the following. That is the way a part of the big business has set itself up to make that division almost invisible, because they've only been working on earning for themselves. I believe that this has, to a large extent, led to a sense of resistance in society, which almost all parties in this Chamber have had to deal with. May I ask another question, Mr. Chairman? Then I won't be giving long introductions anymore. This minister started his block with: yes, I was working on gas, I was working on Groningen, I was working on the Climate Agreement and when I wanted to start the economy, Corona came. The Minister is, to a large extent, right in that regard. That's what happened a little bit. The Minister is now starting with the merits of the budget and the importance that this Minister attaches to it. If he looks back... For example, he left all the questions I asked about the economy to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u23	And a little shorter, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u24	Is it not true that, looking back, the Minister might have wanted to pay a little more attention to the economic part of the portfolio, to the growth part, to the innovation part? Shouldn't a next Minister for Economic Affairs do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u25	I have made no secret from the outset that I felt that there should be a lot on the economic agenda, but I have also made it clear that a number of things were extremely urgent. Moreover, I think it is entirely justified to leave questions about the economy to our capable Secretary of State. Moreover, I believe that the debate on the distribution of wealth should be conducted first and foremost with the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs. That's not what we're talking about today. We are talking today about a responsible collection of our wealth, but the distribution issues cannot be put on the board of large companies. The distribution issues lie with the Cabinet and the Chamber, in the legislation they make for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u26	I would have waited until the end of the block, but because the discussion is already starting...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u27	I think it's a good idea to wait until the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u28	Good. But I do, because the Minister said a few things that are a little paradoxical. He starts by emphasising that we are getting closer together, but at some point I hear him saying that economics has become a swear word. In my view, that is a misanalysis of what my party has appointed and is referring to economics. That is precisely what we are talking about. It is then no longer earning, because the way it is earned causes so much social and ecological damage that it is unsustainable. That is not about putting away any entrepreneur, because it is an analysis of how we have organised ourselves and how we exhaust our earth and our raw materials and are failing flora and fauna. We are changing our climate and therefore it is no longer sustainable. It is then not wise to fall into the victim role or to take it up for companies. They can stand up for themselves. To put economics away as a swear word... It is the title of a social analysis on which the Minister is moving in the right direction. I would just like to reach out to him there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u29	I like this interpretation of economics very much. Mr Van der Lee never sins against this definition either, because he does not use that word, but I invite him and his circle to fill that definition in that direction and not to use it to quantify things or to disqualify earning power in general. So I very much support Mr Van der Lee's definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u30	You can read the introductory remarks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u31	By the way, I do not propose large companies as victims, but I do say that there is no point in making concepts such as 'large companies are bad' sound in social debates. That is not a reproach to the Chamber, but something I see in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u32	Mr Moorlag also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u33	Mr Wiebes is not only touching my colleagues with an open nerve, but also with me. There is a presentation of things here as if earning is a rather neutral activity and that doing something is happening within the framework of the laws and regulations that we lay down here in this house. But earning is not a neutral activity! Mr Van der Lee pointed out the ecological aspect, but also the social aspect. Look at those huge Internet companies that exploit people and do harm. These companies are completely detached from society. A football association goes to a shopkeeper for a price for the annual raffle at the annual meeting, and compared to that, these companies are really off the rails of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u34	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u35	One more example, Mr. Chairman, one more. The large solar parks are also completely unsung from communities. The solar park above Hoogezand changes ownership three times without the community benefiting from it. Then earning isn't a neutral occupation, is it? That's something we can regulate, but surely companies must have something like corporate ethics and morality. This is often lacking, and it is certainly also criticised by society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u36	What I do agree with is that morality also plays a role. I also said in my previous appeal: not everything that is allowed by law is desirable and you should want it. But I will distance myself from the specific proposals. It is not the case that the cabinet wants to make a negative assessment of the business activities mentioned by Mr Moorlag. But I do agree with him on that morality. Therefore, I am not disqualifying morality and I am not screaming big companies either. All I'm saying is that we have a lot to do without dogmas to work on what needs to be done and that we should not fall into rhetoric that denies that our earning power is ultimately very important. 'Cause what's it about? Those are exactly the things Mr Moorlag has a high priority. It's just the middle-class paycheck. It's about our social arrangements. It is about the things that Mr Moorlag wants to preserve, such as an old age provision, such as care and education. It is also about employment and the extent to which people can participate and feel part of society. We all call that prosperity and GDP, but it's something else. It is the degree to which we do things for each other and for each other, that is what we call economics and how we can use our standard of living in this way, even at a time when a very large transition is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u37	To my taste, this is all too much the exaltation of the current economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u38	I'm expressly not doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u39	Look at the earning models of the big companies. That's what fundamental transitions are going to have to do, isn't it? You can't harvest, consume and throw away infinite virgin raw materials. Look at big companies. Look at what happened to the gas extraction in Groningen. This is not only based on a formal permit, but there is also a moral license to operate. It's totally screwed up, isn't it? I think there are really fundamental shortcomings in our economy. We have a high level of prosperity, but that is something other than a high level of sustainable prosperity. That's my message to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u40	It's a bit resentful that we stop every two minutes. I've got a whole story about it. I don't have that for nothing. I am very much in agreement with the speakers. But when I call sentence a, they jump over to sentence b, and vice versa. Would it be a crazy idea if I tried to put the whole thing down, including where we should be in 2040?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u41	Then we cut and paste it for economics class. I'll give you that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u42	It's not an economics class. It is my view and my concern. I want to put it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u43	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u44	They are very similar, but not quite. That's what we're talking about. Mr. Chairman. What I regard as high is the concept of prosperity. I really think we're underestimating it in two ways. We underestimate the importance of maintaining that prosperity, but I think we also underestimate how much that still lacks. You have to wonder where we're going to go. I have always mentioned 2040 in the discussion on the Growth Fund. If we look ahead, we can see that there are still a number of major issues. We can continue to philosophize endlessly about the Netherlands as a seafaring nation, but it's about other things over the next twenty years. The first has already been mentioned; Mr Moorlag has already mentioned it. The molecules fly us around the ears and we know how to treat all the raw materials into waste at a relatively high rate. It's not going well. We have a large use of space and the primary raw material consumption is enormous. Everyone sees that we need to renew our production model. Two thirds of the Dutch also have the best support for this. I think that makes sense, too. I don't like being left and right. Anyone interested in prosperity is renewing their earning model. I think that denying that is a form of economic nostalgia. Nostalgia is for under the Christmas tree; that's why I never have such a thing. I'll give it to everyone, but we have to move on. So by 2040 we will have to be very credible on our way to CO-neutral. Take a look at what's on the Maasvlakte, the petrochemical complex. This is no longer a petrochemical complex, but a biochemical and circular chemical complex. The front train needs to be replaced and the rear train is probably still working. But in the next 30 years we have to get it done and in 20 years we have to see a lot of that. That's a huge challenge. The second thing I see before 2040 is this. We have no hope other than that we are a society that relies primarily on knowledge. There's no alternative. This means that we must be dominant in some areas of knowledge. Think of high-quality clusters. We're doing great in biotech, photonics and a lot of other things. More areas need to be included. We will need to increase the number of high-quality clusters in which we work on the basis of knowledge and propose something in the world. We don't even know exactly which ones they are yet. We are not going to be able to decide that democratically either. You don't do that by vote, but we have to work on that. Knowledge doesn't just mean knowledge that we have in clusters among highly educated people. I am convinced that we can only make an important leap if we continue to train the entire workforce. Everyone knows that we have been talking for ten years about a lifetime of developing. Everyone knows that we have done something about this in every cabinet period. We certainly did so during this cabinet period. I think we need more of it. We need to make everyone as productive as possible. That's more useful for people themselves, but that's what society deserves. And knowledge is not only translated into services. I agree with an important part of this Chamber that we should also look for this in production, in high-quality industry, high-quality agricultural production. For simple low-grade commodity's, we won't have the space. For the basic industry we have a fantastic head start through our location, through the entire gas network... you name it all, but for a lot of other things neither. With further automation and further excellence in knowledge, at some point we see less and less of a labour cost disadvantage in production, but an advantage of knowledge proximity. Hey, that's funny! Isn't that what Wiersma was talking about? He was talking about reshoring. This is a fairly natural reshoring ground. Production costs are making less and less difference, but close acquaintance makes more and more the difference. ASML never had to have low cost. That has had to have so much knowledge in one area right next to production that only one party could do it. Call that our reshoring. This also means that we should not think that we are at the end of prosperity building at the employment rate. There are still a lot of people who say they can and want to work more. If people want that for themselves, then society should not stop them from doing so. If people don't want it, it's a choice. Dominant in 2040; I'm not gonna waste a lot of words on it, but it has to be mentioned. Society will come out best if you and I, chairman of the board, have strong institutions, a good factual basis, where important decisions are based on facts and analysis rather than just on images and interests or partial interests. World history does show that. If we see all these things, if we see that we're in this position in 2040, what does that mean for the government? Now I'm going to say something I wouldn't have said four years ago. That is that I think we should have a government on two fronts that is just a little bit more involved. First of all, it is inevitable in renewing the economy that we have stronger public participation. There is also new academic knowledge in this field. This means public investment in innovation, especially in cases where opportunities for a society and societal challenges come together. This also inevitably means that we are concerned about education in the sense that our foundational education should be the top. Period. There's nothing else we can accept. It also requires that we inevitably have to take on a heavy coordinating role for the whole of the sustainable infrastructure that we need to build. We did that a long time ago with the gas grid and so on. In between it was quiet for a while; there is another time coming. But that's building up that prosperity. At the same time, we need to take a stronger role in protecting the economy where it is needed, from here on out, you and I, yes, in this world, irrevocably, for example, when it comes to unfair competition, state aid, cyber, state-dangerous takeovers and pandemic support, can I mention it in the list? To do all this and to make it happen, this cabinet has laid down that growth strategy. Mr Verhoeven asks if I would not have wanted to spend more time on this. I wish I had that growth strategy a year earlier. That's about two things; the underlying analyses are really two. First of all... If we don't renew, we're gonna be sidelined. Then we have one or too fossil, or too old-fashioned, or not unique, or no longer knowledge-based economy. Period. We need to do something about that now. We can see that! The second is this and that is serious, and that is why I am committed to prosperity. We have seen only a very limited part of the prosperity growth in the past twenty years in the wallet of Dutch people. A very large part was for collective arrangements, which benefit us all. No one has ever protested against that either. They've always served the top three of all the political parties in the middle. But the fact was that the people at home noticed only a limited part of the rise in prosperity. That's gonna get worse in the next 20 years. Because the prosperity expectations are just a little lower if we don't do something. And the growth of collective arrangements due to ageing, care and so on is just slightly higher. So from what's left, we might be able to finance a few collective wishes, but then we're out. So we must also do something about the level, but within the framework of the way we do it. That's what we based that growth analysis on. It has six points. They all cost at least effort, and often also money. Often structural but sometimes occasional. There's six of them. We could have made 20, but I would have finished a year later. According to prominent economists, these are the six most important. With their help and with all the recent economic literature in hand, we made six. Half of them are about knowledge. The héft! Mr Moorlag has made a whole speech in which there was knowledge. I'm always nodding hard, but he's got a point. Foundational education is one of six points. Developing a lifetime is one of six points. The focus on innovation and R&D is also one of six points. Of course we also have a more modern infrastructure to build. Hydrogen is one of six points. It is also about the employment rate of those who want and can work and about the whole management of all these transitions together. 'Cause there's a lot of them. And again, the molecules are flying around your ears. I think that's the basis. Soon I will come up with how such a growth fund fits in, because that facilitates some of these things. I have been asked: what strategy is behind this Growth Fund? No, it's the other way around. We have a growth strategy. Which funding vehicle is included? There, that's the Growth Fund. But that's where we want to go. My belief is that we have a growing consensus here, that this is not a left-wing issue, that it is appropriate to be constructive and to realise that it is also a battle. If I make a plan now and we're gonna do it, something's changed in the world next year and we're gonna have to adjust it. Our systems must be flexible. We also see it with the climate, but I'll get to that later. We need to keep adjusting, but we need to keep an eye on the target and not argue about who we can blame. In my opinion, it is not the big companies that are being blamed, not the people who are being blamed, not the people who cannot work that are being blamed: no, this is a task for all of us, and I do see a growing consensus for that. And I've seen that with some pleasure and some restraint during these three years. A lot of questions have been asked about that, but there are so many people eager to observe a kind of natural silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u45	Have you completed this block on main lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u46	I have several questions, including those of Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Haga, Mr Graus, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Öztürk and Mr Verhoeven, on specific matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u47	Okay, fine. First, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u48	Thank you to the Minister for his consideration. I'd still like to test the consensus he's experiencing. Much of what he perceives, I recognize and even subscribe to. But he needs a lot of words for that. Let me bring that back to the Netherlands, which last year in dollars was the fourth exporting nation in the world. This has to do with the fact that we are a fossilized mainport. What we need to go to is a sustainable brainport, not only in terms of services I recognize that but also in terms of high-quality products. Can I understand the Minister so that the transition from a fossil mainport to a sustainable brainport is a somewhat simpler summary of the consensus he perceives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u49	Mr Van der Lee says that I needed a lot of words, but he only adds new words, so the speech will not be shortened. The additions are welcome. Yeah, we're a big exporter. But it's too easy to say: let's not export those products anymore, then we'll be done with that. He doesn't say that either, but I'll fill it in, because I'll add more words. Not producing these things anymore is not the solution. The other way of producing is the solution. And I think that there is an opportunity for some of these products to say: let us, as a responsible country, that this can be done in a sensible way, a number of products that fit here because of the unique location of the Netherlands, but in a green way. It creates a lot of jobs, but we take responsibility for doing so in a new way. This means that we have to take the infrastructure first. There's every chance for that. The gas infrastructure needs to be changed, but we can. The ball is on the spot, to talk to the football lovers, so it's possible. But we have to bet on that. So it is not the question whether we export too much, but whether we produce the stuff properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u50	Then I conclude that the words'mainport' and 'brainport' already in existence in the Netherlands can sum up what the Minister says here. We need to move from a fossilized mainport to a sustainable brainport. A second point I would like to make is the following. For a few decades, the Dutchman has been benefiting relatively little or almost nothing from prosperity growth. The Minister devotes this almost entirely to collective arrangements. I think that is a fundamental error of opinion. We also see an enormous concentration of power in a few. This leads to a capacity inequality similar to that in the United States. If he doesn't include that in his analysis, the consensus he observes will fall apart. There are several parties here in the Chamber who see that earning happens in such a way that a lot of power ends up in a few. On this issue of distribution, the Minister does well to look not only at collective arrangements, but also at the concentration of capital as a reason for the fact that the distribution in the Netherlands is not yet in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u51	No, I'm not buying it. You can look at the distribution of wealth with and without pensions, but this is not primarily about wealth. Mr Van der Lee says that what is left of income has been very good for households, but that it is a very limited group. But first of all, it is not true that if you look at the total income of households, then you see that a very significant part of the prosperity has ended up there. Secondly, you can see that in the distribution "b" there are a few individuals who are probably very rich at that time "b" the gini coefficient is virtually unchanged in the Netherlands, just like the labour income ratio. So it's just statistically not true. There are all kinds of people who have a lot of power. I want to believe all that, but that's not the big cause. That's not anyone's fault either. I'm not blaming the government. The election programme of the party on which I voted for many years has also had the top three: concern, old age and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u52	I have two questions which are in line with the Minister's speech. I really agree with the words he speaks about the consensus and the system changes he describes. He actually follows the Party for Animals in that, so we really agree on that. But I do have two questions. They may also be about testing that consensus. Another big part is the export that finds its physical form in an activity that really doesn't yield anything, namely the numbness of the Netherlands with all the big warehouses that are being built and that actually doesn't contribute that much. What role does he see in this? I'm assuming that this stunning of the Netherlands is gonna wear off if I have to test his consensus. This should be automatically reduced in Mr Wiebes' worldview. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u53	I'm not so sure. I am not saying no, but I have not done a sectoral analysis of the distribution sector in preparation for this budgetary treatment. I outline images for 2040 that emphasise that we need to have more knowledge on all fronts than we do now and that we need to organise our production in a different way. That is not a matter of left or right interest, but of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u54	I certainly agree with that, but it would be good if the Minister would also draw the conclusions which are part of his analysis. Such a physical distribution system with very little added value but a huge space attachment should have no place in the Netherlands of 2040. You don't have to do sector analysis to draw that conclusion. That was my question about that. I feel that he is not going to answer this question, but I assume he agrees with the analysis. The second question I have is about the earning model that needs to be earned first because collective demand is increasing. In fact, there is a part of it missing, namely the third piece on what business pays off. Of course, that's gone down. Look at the taxes that business pays. There are also large and increasing opportunities for tax avoidance. Perhaps he can add a few words to that, because that is still lacking in his picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u55	The previous cabinet and cabinet have recognised that tax avoidance has been subject to changing opinion in a variety of ways and that we need to do something about it. I do not think it is right that companies should systematically pay less tax. Again, the labour income ratio has remained about constant in the Netherlands. There's a big change in shape. In recent decades, companies have been paying less of one type of tax and more of another. For example, they have started to pay much more in environmental taxes. In the time I took those taxes, we were number three in Europe, probably number three in the world. There are a lot of things to note on the system. I am not saying anything about that, but given the total contribution, it is not the case that companies have systematically started to pay much less tax. Whether it is sufficient is a question of political decision-making, which I would like to leave to the participants in the Tax Plan. But these are basically the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u56	It's always nice to have a look through 2040 with this minister. I think it is also very good that we should consider this. The minister said, looking back, maybe two things should have been different over time. I think one of them was in on it. The government needs to be more involved. I forgot the second one. But that is not relevant either, because this is what is at stake. How does the Minister look at the agility of the economy towards the future, but also at the agility of the government? Can she follow the pace? I am not saying to the Minister that, as in China, in Wuhan, we will have to stamp out a new hospital in ten days, but you can see that the economy has much shorter roadmaps in its developments. We do not talk about new developments from 10 to 15 years; often they are five-year deadlines. Yesterday, I congratulated the Ministry on its rapid development in the corona crisis. But can the Minister briefly reflect on how agile the government will be? Think of manoeuvrable instruments but also of being able to act quickly, to help companies in time in these transitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u57	I did not say that we should have done more in the past period, but that we should have done so in the coming period. The point that Mr Amhaouch missed, but which I said we should have done differently... I told Mr Verhoeven that we should have had a growth strategy earlier and that all the work failed. But I think I should have. Such a thing should be at the beginning of a cabinet period. Well, it's there now. Yeah, I think a government should be agile. This requires a certain form of work which is uncomfortable, I say, also in relation to Parliament. We're gonna have to practice a little bit. Corona is a very good example. We are managing a crisis, in debate with Parliament. That controlling function is heavy. In other countries they do things differently, I think. It is also up to the Chamber to determine how that controlling function is fulfilled, but it is difficult to manage a crisis and major changes in the Dutch tradition of debate, poldering, etc. This concerns many parties, from the security regions to the others. In the climate agreement, for example, you can see that. It is very good to set goals and put instruments against them. But we have not for nothing, by the way very much helped by the Climate Act... I look at seven groups, but I always start with GroenLinks and the Labour Party. They are the initiators and the rest have joined in. That's a sensible document, because it doesn't tell us how to do it. It's a law that recognises that things change every year, so you have to change things every year. We have to learn to live with these things. An evaluation that shows that something else has to be done is not a bad thing. It's a good thing, because that's exactly what it's supposed to be. It is good to measure something every year and see what is going well and what is not going well, and to adapt it. We have to embrace that as a normal course of action. There's a purpose. That is parliamentaryly established. There must be some room to manoeuvre in this area, with the right instruments to strive for it. We will see a lot of that relationship, because that will all happen with economic policy, prosperity building and transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u58	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u59	I will continue my speech. Mr Wiersma said: nice, such a six-point growth letter. But he remembers that there was a commitment from the cabinet to further develop this and to produce documents, which not only now, during this cabinet period, could happen via a growth fund, but also with which a subsequent cabinet could benefit. I intend to inform the House of Representatives next spring about the progress of these actions. The Growth Fund has been set in motion. We're still working on all kinds of reconnaissance. One of the six points in the growth letter was participation. Among other things, there is the Borstlap Committee and the final report of the scenario study design child facilities. We'll get back to you on that one. But Mr Wiersma has made it a little broader in his question. He looked at me pretty hard when he asked. In addition, therefore, I would like to undertake that the Central Economic Commission should also be asked to carry out further exploration, to provide these themes and additional themes for the strengthening of earning capacity, so that a reformer can take advantage of them. I will come back to the Growth Fund later, purely to some economic questions. Mr Wiersma has distinguished several periods: the short term, the medium term and the long term. He's actually asking how they connect and how we're gonna handle it in the middle. The short term is clear: a package of support. There's no other way. There's not much choice. That's what we have to do. In the long term, we can only really have it in the long term. That too is economic theory, but everyone here knows it with productivity gains. In a sensible productivity improvement, the Growth Fund has a role to play, but we will simply have to make reforms and make adjustments so that we always focus on the right things. In the intermediate area, the main challenge is to maintain private investment. Yes, the government can also invest things, but 85% of all investments in the Netherlands really come from the private sector. If they fall silent, you're the bad guy, that's how we learned from the previous crisis. So we are trying in all kinds of ways to keep that up. Hopefully European funds, the RRF and the Just Transition Fund, will help. The Growth Fund has a long-term productivity effect, but in the short term at least a spending effect, to complement it with the BIK or other things. But it is above all an economic stimulus in the medium term. I don't see an acquisition job for the government. I can't tell companies how they get new assignments. My rather noisy and comprehensive silent diplomacy towards VDL and BMW has not resulted in me being asked to act as an acquisite. I think Van der Veegte might have asked me if he'd seen my talent, but he hasn't. No, I can't acquire. So the government can't do that. I'm bad at that, and we're all here. The point is that we have a spending impulse and we keep an eye on whether we keep the healthy companies running. Then it has to be in the medium term. There's more in that impulse. We have another industrial agenda. We've got Tiki. We have the Climate Agreement, a digitisation strategy and an SME Action Plan. All these things play a role. One of the medium-term dishes, I see, is a spending impulse. In the long term, this is a productivity improvement. In the short term: save what can be saved, with an emergency package. We must help all healthy companies to survive as much as possible. But it's not all gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u60	The minister says that he is not good at acquiring, while many ministers go along with trade delegations, with a lot of entrepreneurs, SMEs, VNO-NCW and ONL, to make proper acquisitions and establish contacts. Prime Minister Rutte is good at that. Our king will do that where necessary. The fact that the Chamber asks the Minister to make an acquisition for BMW and the employment in Limburg is therefore completely normal. That is also one of your tasks. Only, in addition, you can remove a lot of obstacles in the laws and regulations, so that a partner outside Europe can also come to the Netherlands. You do have a part in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u61	Sure. I fully agree with this. We don't do specific acquisitions for a specific company, but this is the kind of thing the king and the prime minister do. I would also like to mention my colleague Kaag in this context; let us not forget that we have a minister for it, with great respect abroad. Obstacles to regulation must also be removed; I fully agree with that. There's no pin in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u63	Then Mr Wiersma, speaking about the investment test, asks whether we also support key technologies. That's under investigation now. The Cabinet conducts an exploration to identify which emerging technologies and key technologies also contribute to national security and should then be brought under that scope. This could be done through a general measure of governance. It is true that this is a matter of national security. We have no protectionism in mind. It's not gonna be that French around here. Mr Wiersma also asked about the investment climate test whether, in the business impact analysis, which is a standard part of a legislative proposal, we could also explicitly include the effects on economic growth and the investment climate. I think this is important. We now have a business impact test, which also looks at some aspects of the investment climate. If there is a wider desire in this Chamber to extend that to the locational environment, then I can take it with me in a review of the framework to incorporate it into that business impact test. I think it is a sensible suggestion in itself, especially since we have the ambition, for example, to attract green basic industries with our unique infrastructure and thereby create new jobs. So that could help each other. Mr Van Haga says: cut the bullshit and reduce the tax burden. Economic theory shows that a country's prudent economic policy is more than just a low burden. I am in favour of low costs, but it also requires targeted policies to grow our income. I therefore think that these are sensible arrangements. Then there are the questions about VDL and Tata Steel and to what extent the government is interfering now. One side of the spectrum came from Mr Van der Lee, and I think that is a justified demarcation. He said: we cannot operate every individual company with customization. Customisation is a cousin of state aid and is a brother of legal inequality. It's possible sometimes, but it can't always happen. That is a fact and we all recognise it. At the same time, of course, we want companies to flourish within what we have in our policies. So fitting in with the policies we have, we do want to help with that. Sometimes we also want to learn that our policies are not right. Sometimes you learn that from a specific enterprise, in the sense that you notice that there is a very wrong incentive. We have seen this in the CO supply to the greenhouse gardeners, where there is an annoying effect when we want to achieve the opposite. We have a lot of contact with companies like this. With VDL the last period the prime minister. I have been allowed to interfere extensively with partners in order to move them in a desired direction. Unfortunately, that has not yet worked in the short term. Tata is another example. At all levels, we are engaged and talking to this company to see that they are sustainable in a sensible way. I am impressed by the plans that lie ahead, by the plans that have been worked out. I see there's a big investment challenge there. The company sees that it will have to do so to an important extent, but where the public domain offers solutions within the framework of infrastructure and tools, we are talking to each other, very intensively, I might add.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u64	I see Mr Graus wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u65	This is my last one in the economy block, Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven specifically asked about the sustainability of VDL. This is also the subject of the conversation with VDL. There are opportunities for this too. The SDE++ also plays a role in this. They are also participants in the Limburg energy agreement, in which they research together with other companies, including Chemelot, what is needed to achieve the climate goals. All these clusters are connected, too. It's important that this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u66	I specifically asked the government to take the lead to draw up an integral plan for VDL. What the minister says about the acquisition isn't right at all. Because in the past, when it was the DAF factories, I experienced that as a child, the government actively participated in the acquisition and even made a deal with Volvo. 'Cause the state police went all over for volvos; that was the deal, and then they'd do the factory. So there has been negotiation and acquisition. That is what needs to be done now. So I'm actually asking less, because I'm asking: will the Minister take the lead and draw up an integral plan to make VDL NedCar future-proof? That's what I asked. I have a whole motion record ready and there are some Members of Parliament who would like to support it. But I hope that the Minister will make a commitment that does not require that motion. The same applies to Tata Steel, which, as the Minister says, are of course very active. I appreciate that, too. But now it's about VDL specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u67	Maybe it's in words, but it's not the government that's going to dictate to the Van der Veeg family how to make their business more sustainable, how to acquire or how to expand. Mr Graus can't possibly mean that, it can't be. It is true that this company, when it runs with plans, links a lot with the local, regional and national government. There's a lot of contact there. If that is what Mr Graus means, that we are actively involved, then I think it is a good thing. But I think the measure should be struck by the family and by the entrepreneur himself. And I also think that he would very much like to keep that in his own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u68	I have very often put Mr Van der Veegte senior, who unfortunately has withdrawn, feathers in his ass about good entrepreneurship, because I think that is one of the most sympathetic and best entrepreneurs our country has ever been rich. I do not mean that the Minister should interfere at that level, but I do want him to do something more than he has just said. That is literally: to take the direction to draw up an integral plan. That is why I also mentioned yesterday's text in cooperation with VDL, the province of Limburg, municipalities, knowledge and education institutions. Then I ask: will the Minister direct that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u69	The phrase is almost the same; it contains the same words. But it remains true, and otherwise I am laughed at when I come to Limburg, that the family, the entrepreneur, has the direction, but in cooperation with all those governments. Taking control of an individual company is not going to succeed. The best entrepreneur in the Netherlands, in the words of Mr Graus, is there and not in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u70	May I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u71	A very short closing word, with this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u72	Exactly. Because the point is, I'm not asking what the Minister is saying. I am asking for the direction to be taken in a plan of action to make VDL future-proof. VDL wants to, and the Van der Leegte family wants to, in collaboration with the province, the municipalities and knowledge and education institutions. But they do want the Minister to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u74	You're welcome in Limburg. You will also get the most beautiful and the best pie there is, but please just say so, so that we can leave that motion aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u75	Active involvement of all three governments yes, but directing on the future of an individual company, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u76	Directed!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u77	Yeah, direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u78	I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u79	It's a good thing we're discussing this point. I'd like to zoom out anyway. I don't want to talk about the Van der Veegte family or the VDL in the first place. It's about a much bigger piece. It's about the automotive industry in South and Central Limburg, where 6,000 people work and where we've been building cars for decades. That's a modern factory. I think most of them did have a tour there. There work 1,200 or 1,300 robots, with 6,000 people on the other hand, so more robots, more staff. I also know the automotive chain, the ecosystem in Helmond and Eindhoven. All that works together, all that delivers to each other. So both the socio-economic position of South and Central Limburg and the automotive industry in the Netherlands requires a directional role, an active role that goes beyond just contacts. I agree with you that we should not be at the wheel to give the plan what the Van der Leegte family will eventually build in that factory. But we can help to connect the case, because a company can't connect all parties either. That's what we're expecting. I've said before that I also think it's chefsache for the cabinet. It's really big when you zoom out and you can make it very small when you zoom in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u80	Then I really want to zoom further, because it is also about industry. It's not just about Limburg and not just about automotive. We have a huge challenge. The Secretary of State has written a very detailed piece on this subject. I wrote a big piece about the basic industry. We recognize that in all these transitions and in that wild international situation where we sometimes find ourselves, with the storm coming over us, there are huge challenges for the whole industry in the Netherlands. We see that contacts are not only not enough; we are not doing so now. There's a lot more. There's cooperation. There are teams that consist of people from a particular company and people in public service who look together to see what you could do in the areas of infrastructure, permits, spatial planning and sustainability. A much greater role of coordination is needed. The only point against which there is protest is the idea that a company's final business plan holds the pen. That's pedantic, that goes too far, that can't be done, and that can't be done in the language. It is clear that we have a great challenge and that this involves a strong public role. This is the case in Limburg, as is the case in the automotive industry, and this is also the case in the basic industry, including in many other regions of the Netherlands. I should like to mention the North. That's what it takes. It's never all going to happen at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u81	I saw Mr Wiersma rise, but Mr Öztürk of Denk probably has a comment on this subject. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u82	The future of the automotive industry lies with the electric cars of Tesla and a number of other brands. I understand through a number of employees that the management is in the process of bringing in the new TOGG brand. That brand is being developed in Turkey. There are a number of barriers between Europe and a number of other countries. Is the Minister prepared to talk to VDL NedCar to look at these barriers, in order to get a car brand from outside Europe to the Netherlands and have it built here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u83	I'm not sure. This is an initiative by Mr Öztürk. I would like to make that commitment to him, but I would probably be too recklessly interfering with the Secretary of State's portfolio. That is what we should do together. Here's what's important. If entrepreneurs come up with promising initiatives and encounter legislative problems, they will find this department. Then that's where we'll go. I can't judge whether this is an initiative of this kind. Maybe the Secretary of State knows all about it by now. Then she will respond to that. Generally speaking, it should not be the case that regulation does things it is not intended to do and hinders things it is intended to do. Can I put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u84	Thank you to the Minister for a number of commitments he has already made. I have another question about the medium term. The Chamber has a lot of concerns about specific companies. I think a lot of people who work there have a lot of concerns, too. For the short term, we still have the aid packages, but what about six months or a year? That is also what the questions of the Chamber are about. The AFM warns of a silence before the storm. I see the Cabinet is doing everything it can. The cabinet says the same thing here. At the same time, in the medium term, only reference to European funds and spending is not enough. I would ask the cabinet to include very clearly in the letters it sends on aid packages the medium term and the support they can find in the cabinet; not immediately financial support, but perhaps support in network or ideas. A lot of companies are seeking help with the question of how they get through the slightly longer term of six months or a year, but not as far as two or three years. Those are the tough questions VDL and Tata Steel have. I see the cabinet making good efforts, but it would be nice if we could see that even more specifically appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u85	In addition, I ask for some help. We have always mentioned three pillars in presenting the emergency package, at a press conference and in the Chamber. One of them is direct aid. One of these is the direct accompanying policy to enable parties to go along with the change. One of them is an investment leg. I note, and I ask for some help from Mr Wiersma, that direct support in communication was received much more enthusiastically than the things that may not be happening directly today but in a few months' time. That's the investment leg. It's part of each other. If you just do the one thing, you're gonna have a big problem. In a previous crisis, we saw the volume of investment go down massively. The housing industry also stopped. We regretted that very much; then, because the decline took a long time, and later, because there were too few houses. That can also be called a kind of social productivity. That third leg must also be emphasized. We're gonna have to work hard on that. We need to take that leg seriously and get on with it. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u86	You just answered my question as to whether a number of schemes could not be exchanged for a tax reduction. Now I do understand that there have to be certain arrangements and that you can't trade everything out, and I understand that you're not jumping to tax cuts. But this question was actually meant in conjunction with the fact that SMEs in the Netherlands have calculated that we have been given 1.15 billion in additional regulatory pressure per year. Is it not an idea to take a good look at this and make it a relief for business?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u87	That's an administrative burden. May I ask the Secretary of State to deal specifically with the administrative burden in this respect? This is because no one is ever in favour of administrative burdens. That is a very easy answer, but sometimes the objective for which these administrative burdens exist is a noble one. It is always that consideration and I am not going to answer in general. I'll ask the Secretary of State to report on the state of play in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u88	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u89	Then I'll just hold off on your interruption. I don't count it, and it'll be back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u90	Then I wanted to... No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u91	No, Mr Moorlag had another question. It's been there for a while. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u92	Yes, it's about the role of the government in relation to VDL. I support colleagues' calls. But in my contribution I also asked for specific attention for Tata Steel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u94	To my taste there is a good legitimation to pack a very active role there. The steel industry is of strategic importance. A predecessor of the European Community, the ECSC or the European Coal and Steel Community, is founded on it. There is potentially 3.2 megatons of CO reduction possible there. There are 9 000 jobs and 40,000 indirect jobs. That justifies, to my taste, a very active role. We know that the employees of the company are concerned about the continuity, the innovative capacity and the future of the company. I want the Minister to make a firm commitment that he is actively committed to this and that he also embraces and gives the initiatives of society a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u95	I want to go beyond a commitment. I would like to assure Mr Moorlag that this is one of my most active activities, at all levels in the company and directed towards the future. That's what we do with two-way teams. Underlying and numerically, we look at what this future is and how it is related to the infrastructure, to the necessary permit, to the storage of space and to the use of regulations that exist in Europe and in the Netherlands. I have a very active interference there. There are all kinds of ideas being fired at me from several sides. Let me put it this way: all these things are being looked at, but it is not up to me to impose a plan on an enterprise. I also find that sometimes it doesn't help. There will also be plans from other quarters that Mr Moorlag may not know about. That is not the angle Mr Moorlag is referring to. Of these plans you say: yes, we had that hypothesis at first, but it has now fallen for good reasons, and the direction is another. Then it doesn't always help to get into a situation where unrest is created among the employees. We have a lot to gain from not letting a company that has so much future and that's so strong become a rollercoaster with all options. I also think that employees are a little entitled to this. We benefit from serious consideration of how this company can be made stronger. I'd like anyone who has a good idea to deliver that. But if these ideas are all "up" and "over".................................................................................................................................................................................................. So: very active interference, very likely and many bumps still to take on the road to a sustainable future in 2050. But there's a lot of ground up here. We need to plan wisely and on the basis of facts to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u96	At the heart of the issue is this. A company owns an owner. On the other hand, you also notice that the employees and the other stakeholders are feeling very uncomfortable and are concerned about the future and the current configuration in which Tata Steel operates. That configuration also has no eternity value. And then it shouldn't be the case that the company will soon be handed over to the market and that a private equity investor will run off with it. The motion was adopted in June. They're unconventional measures. I call on the Minister to form a consortium, if necessary, or if necessary, or preferably, so that there really is a basis for giving the company a good future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u97	I don't want to embrace the negative suggestion about the role of private equity. I don't want to go into that for a while, but I don't want to embrace it either. But I am convinced with Mr Moorlag that, in the present constellation, there could be unrest for employees if, for example, there were doubts about the willingness to invest from India, or the viability in England. I'm not going to tell you about that right now. But it is on everyone's mind; this company, in my opinion and in my opinion, looks in a very serious, sensible and in-depth way at how this company can not only remain attractive as an IJmuiden site, but also how it can derive added value from that company.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u98	Finally, briefly, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u99	Yes, concluding, Mr. Chairman. You can call it unrest, but you can also refer to it as involvement. I just see really involved parties, also people of name and fame, who are committed. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister is rolling out the red carpet. Knowledge is an important ingredient. There's a lot of knowledge in society. Take that, that's my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u100	I heard the call. I'm not gonna turn it into a whole company game. I'm dealing with an enterprise with sensible ideas and elaborate plans. I say to Mr Moorlag, but that is for his own consumption. That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u102	Furthermore, of course, I am not the one who determines the future of the company, but I am someone who is in a position to influence it hopefully in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. The Growth Fund is the logical consequence of all the above. That's not a stand-alone thing that's gonna solve all the problems. It's only because we have a growth strategy, which you say: hey, some things require structural funding; that's what the upcoming Cabinets should just do. For a lifetime there is no fund; you just have to do that. There are all kinds of plans for this and we will have to put our hands together, but we are not going to settle that in November. There are other priorities that are likely to require structural funding, but also elements of incidental resources. Incidental resources normally simply come from the budget. And as far as this is to come from the budget, so is it here. But sometimes there's a very big thing you'd like to do, which you think is socially profitable, but it doesn't fit in with the budget. In these special cases, the fund can provide a solution. This can be about a unique innovation impact in foundational education, for example. Mr. Slob sees all kinds of attractive possibilities. It may also have to do with that great blow that we have to deal with our sustainable infrastructure, for example hydrogen. This fund could be used for such special things. The idea is that it is really something to do with that, of course we are stuck at the FES; there are very extensive analyses about what went wrong there from a next generation. So before we start to make ourselves happy here and think that the grassroots will be happy: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It makes the children of the grassroots happy. It's for a next generation. It takes some political perseverance to do something, which isn't for your generation, but what you need to do now. That must be aimed at ensuring that that generation will see something of that in due course. This means that there must be a social return, but also that there must be an income component. That may be because it contributes to creating a new form of our prosperity that otherwise would not have been there, so that there will also be a new income flow that would not otherwise have been there. It may also be that we come up with something extra, something innovative that we wouldn't otherwise have had. It is reasonable, however, that the party that will eventually be confronted with that part of the sovereign debt should also receive that part of the income. Otherwise, you're doing something for yourself. The idea of a fund for that kind of thing is not new. Not only have we invented this twice in the cabinet, but we have also seen all kinds of political parties discover it. There are at least two or three, perhaps four parties who have included this in their speeches. So it is not a unique idea, but non-unique ideas can also be extremely sensible. There's been a lot of questions asked about what that's like. There will also be a debate on this. I just wanted to move all the governance aspects to the separate debate on this Growth Fund. A few questions raised here in this budget debate in the first term touch on the intention and the economic impact. I would like to say a few words about that. For example, Mrs Mulder asks: what about SMEs? Mr Stoffer also referred to this in his speech. I'm starting an abstraction level higher, just as much as the principal. This is not a subsidy pot for companies, like the SDE or the KIA or whatever. This isn't a fundpot for companies. This is not a pot from which large companies are now getting revenue to boost their income. It is a public investment in a public interest, of society as a whole, with a social added value that ultimately results in a positive balance of social costs and benefits and a generation's earning ability that would otherwise see that earning power get in the way. So that's a piece of other kind of economy that you stick to and benefit later generations. That is not therefore a direct subsidy for a company. How does this benefit companies? Well, we all benefit from it, but specifically for companies or SMEs, for example, there is Mr Wiersma's medium-term spending effect. In the medium term, an investment by a government will turn into a turnover for companies. This leads to more knowledge and in companies to new markets and higher productivity and ultimately to more prosperity. For these companies, therefore, it leads to new opportunities. This leads to a swan-stick cluster effect through clustering in knowledge areas, in which all kinds of companies can join. It is therefore not a business subsidy, but an investment in social added value that employees, employers and companies can benefit from in a variety of ways. It leads to that new slice of economics. Mr Wiersma asked whether this could be done before the elections. That's the bet. The proposals will be forwarded to the committee. I do not know the proposals, because I am not a conduit. In fact, I shouldn't interfere. The committee is using many experts to assess everything on its merits and may be able to do so before the elections, which is my hope of honouring proposals, provided they are good. However, I am not going to commit that committee to a deadline, because for me the quality is above the speed. I don't need to put this cabinet in the spotlight of: look what we've done big. I think we should have done something big with this as a vehicle. I would also very much like to broaden the scope for this, so that everyone can see that this new patch of economy is very valuable to the next generation and that these goals are also linked to the growth strategies and the picture of where we want to be in 20 years' time. So I'm aiming for broader, and I'm willing to do a lot for that. I would also like the committee's opinion to be sufficiently clear and sensible in the end. So we're in a hurry? No. Are we gonna make a bet? Yes. Mr Van der Lee asked whether it would not be wise to incorporate CO pricing internally into the balance of social costs and benefits. I would really lose it if I said no to that now, because there is no other way to live up to those ambitions and the balance of social costs and benefits than with internal CO pricing. I would like to return to that separate debate on what pricing that should be, but the answer can only be yes to this, otherwise the previous speech is all nonsense. Mr Van der Lee also asks whether this includes a generation test. If that wish is wider, I would be happy to say so, but frankly, given the nature of the fund, I find it totally superfluous. It is meant only for that generation, but if that has to be demonstrated again with a generation test, then... So the answer is yes. A point has been made about Parliament and the amendments. It would be my proposal to discuss this in the presence of Mr Hoekstra and thus to find a way for which there is broad support. We have worked for a long time on something in which the two "strevens" had to come together, namely "we do not fall into the mistakes of the FES" and "the Chamber is the one who can finally live up to its budget rights." If there is a feeling that we have not yet achieved the optimum, I suggest that we discuss this further in the debate with Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u103	Nevertheless, Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks has a question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u104	I just want to say that I can live with that and therefore I do not necessarily need to hear an opinion on the amendment. That will then be the subject of this debate, but that debate will have to take place before we vote on the budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u105	Let us do it this way: I will give a written response to that amendment before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u106	Very good. Maybe I can say one more sentence about that generational test. I have noticed not only in the political but also in the social debate and during the round table that some people are very much in favour of adding to the things we are already doing. In that light, it is not yet entirely self-evident. I have heard very well what the Minister said, but I think it is important for the management of expectations that we record that kind of thing. And that is what we are going to do in the debate on the Growth Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u107	I hear this isn't gonna be a fight. Mr Bruins, but also Mr Amhaouch, are good readers of the piece and they have concerns about the region. Mr Amhaouch also picked out a sentence and asked: what does this phrase actually mean? That sentence is: the committee can also have a certain spread... et cetera. How's that? It is not expressly the case that an ex ante allocation of funds between regions has been agreed. Why not? Because that's extremely unwise. We have the Belgian practices of the 1980s as an example: then port facilities in Wallonia had to be built, because they also existed in Flanders. That's what we call "the waffle iron policy." That is not possible and, moreover, if we were to guarantee a region a certain amount of resources, then there would be no more good proposals and certainly no more creative proposals. No one actually thinks so. Nor do I hear from the regions that this is the way it should be. But we do think that this will create a reasonable spread. Why do we think that? We think that for two reasons. The first is that everyone here can see that these economic opportunities are clearly scattered across our country. What, for example, are extremely promising and extremely strong knowledge clusters in the Netherlands? I would then call Wageningen and Eindhoven and everyone sees that it is spread across the country. When I call hydrogen, I call it a molecule, ten of you say the North. They don't just mention the North, but they'll mention the North explicitly. So they're scattered all over the country. But there is also an economic argument that is correcting. That is the absorption capacity of a region. If you honour ten proposals in one region, nothing will come of eight, because the absorption capacity will be inadequate. You have to weigh that in and this is going to be a spread something. If that is not the case, we have an annual debate in the Chamber on the budget of this vehicle. Then let's talk about that. My point is not that we will decide to introduce an ex ante regional distribution, but that we will have questions as to how great opportunities in the region could have been left unhonored.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u108	I thank the Minister for this answer. I see it can happen like this. On top of that, I see that the regions outside the Randstad are simply needed to keep the Randstad habitable over the next 30 to 40 years. However, I am concerned that every time I feel that GDP growth is a leading indicator of the Growth Fund. The calculation of GDP can only be done in cases that are reasonably close in time and are reasonably concrete. The higher the population density, the higher the GDP increase if you invest there. Before you know it, it'll end up in the West again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u109	I don't know that a certain investment is more profitable if there are more people living around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u110	Well, for example, it is with a railway line; the fuller the train is, the higher the yield is if you lay a railway line somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u111	That also depends on the density of the network that is on the ground. If there's no railroad, it's a whole different story. But let's not draw curves in the air, when we don't really know the connections. I'd like to say it in a different way. I have spoken quite often about this to Mr Bruins. So I know that we both think that the social balance of costs and benefits is important. In addition to this, we must ensure that a greater proportion of the prosperity increase will be achieved by households and that we also have room for all kinds of other collective provisions. So we need to boost the level of our new type of prosperity. Then it doesn't make much sense to say: I can't calculate it very precisely, so let me go to another parameter. That's not how he thinks, and that's not how I think. I'd rather we take an approach to something we really mean than calculate exactly what we don't need. He thinks so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u112	Sure. I do have the idea that that includes qualities like believing in something or choosing something with guts and guts. Not everything is calculable, especially with regard to large economic indicators. Do I find that kind of dreams, visions, guts, courage and belief in that Growth Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u113	Not everything is calculable, but we must force ourselves to make everything evaluable. I have another question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u114	But first, Mrs. Agnes Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u115	Yeah, at the same time. I'm gonna go back to what my colleague Bruins said. How does the Minister indicate hydrogen in the Growth Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u116	That question has been asked and I have actually answered it. I have mentioned the following example. In the growth strategy, we have two columns that are both related to hydrogen. One is transition management. If we screw that up, we're 10-0 behind. That is an extremely important point. Energy infrastructure plays a key role in this. Furthermore, we explicitly have the piece of infra. That Growth Fund is there to do things at its crossroads. I'm not gonna make any promises to the hydrogen industry, because the assessment isn't with me. However, this is a key element of the type of investment that could contribute to economic development, including the economic development of the new type. I'm not making any promises, because I'm not the judge, and I shouldn't be. Mrs Mulder should not be either. But I can see that it's an excellent thing that could be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u117	I have a question along the lines of this. It is now always about green hydrogen in relation to the Growth Fund, but there are many more sources where green hydrogen and new projects can be financed. We talk about the DEI, about a possible combination of wind farms and a little SDE++ and about the Just Transition Fund. What a lot of investors are actually waiting for is an answer to the question of which train they can jump on and when it will pass. It would be so nice if the Minister could give us a pathbook of that. That just gives the market a lot more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u118	I believe that question has already been asked. I wanted to answer that in the context of the section on climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u119	So you're gonna have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u120	I do not know whether I can be as exhausting as Mr Sienot and I would undoubtedly like to be, but the answer comes along. I would like to begin with Mr Moorlag's question on the Growth Fund. Actually, he's overreacting. He says: yes, 20 billion; the infrastructure alone is 40! Well, I say, that's 50. But the author of an investment plan of 50 billion must also go overboard. I don't think this is the measure. In fact, I can imagine that if you see good opportunities for this, you will have to push up the amount, but that should really lead to economic developments. We're not gonna raise public debt so we can't give a generation the corresponding income. Because then we're just transferring things to generations. That is not what this fund is for. I can imagine that we are considering this amount more closely, but not in the light of this example. It is true that a lot of money has to go to infrastructure, but we have an exceptionally good tradition for infrastructure in the Netherlands. That's what the user pays for. There is a need for extensive industrial infrastructure. Yes, there can be a kickstart, but I don't think anyone in this Chamber thinks that the industry should get all the infrastructure new style for free. I don't think so. Companies must make an appropriate contribution to this. The user pays, even if it is an industry and also when it comes to infrastructure. So yes, kick-starts can be made. I think that hydrogen is an extremely important example, but I cannot imagine that we are now taking 40 billion in infrastructure out of the fund and getting rid of the idea that the user should ultimately contribute to it. Nevertheless, I do not rule out the possibility that there will be other thoughts on amounts, but again, that must be something that will really benefit the next generation and will see something of it in the rise in prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u121	There is a question for you from Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u122	We are still going to have the fundamental debate on the Growth Fund, but I have asked a few questions. Suppose my daughter comes to me and asks: Daddy, do me $100, because I want to do good things for the future. Then I say, "I trust you, so it's okay in itself, but then I want to know what you're gonna use it for. Suppose she says to me: yes, ask my classmates! Then I say, we're not gonna do that; I want to know about you. Well, that's actually happening here, because the cabinet is asking Parliament for 20 billion to do something good for our future, for the future of the future generation. Then I ask: there are some proposals; can we not share them with each other? And then I get the answer: 'Transparency about the proposals is of course important, but communication about the proposals submitted is primarily for the independent assessment committee'. That means I'm going to have to send a letter to Mr. Dijsselbloem of the committee, for example. That's not how we got married. Why can't the cabinet just give us a little bit of transparency, because we are asked for the 20 billion? I'd like a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u123	You want to avoid two situations. Suppose that daughter needs €100 to invest something in the future, leaving it to daddy and daddy to buy other sports rims for that. That's what we tend to do: Daddy's going to spend it on himself. It may also be that daughter who gets €100 and buys an electric skateboard for that with all good intentions, future-proof. That is very nice, but it does not contribute to the future. It is useful that, if we borrow money from a next generation from public funds, we have very, very sensible people with precision to see that it also meets the earning capacity of that other generation. Then it might be a pot for the study. That is boring in the short term but wise in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u124	In itself, I agree with this. But still, if you're releasing 20 billion, you have to feel a little bit about where it's going. What I don't want is that it goes, for example, to traditional infrastructure or something like that, because we can just arrange that directly with each other. So there's got to be some insight into potential proposals. I really don't need to see the whole list of proposals, but I'll give you the following. Before we here as a SGP later on, possibly, that's really one thing for me: are we going to do it or not? If we are to make a positive assessment, we really need to have the indication that it is going to hyperloop development, hydrogen development or I don't know what. I need to see that it's really forward-looking, that I can't do nice things with it, but that it really ends up with my daughter or grandchildren. That's the guarantee I need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u125	But now Mr. Stoffer is turning it around. He says: to see what the criteria are, I have to take a look at these proposals. But, of course, that's a really weird size. Whether these proposals are in line with these criteria is not at all clear at this stage. Perhaps there are proposals where Mr Stoffer is laughing, and perhaps I am laughing. I haven't seen them, but it could be. The way for Mr Stoffer to exercise parliamentary control is to look at the objectives. There are three pillars; those are the projects. Because steering at project level seems very unwise to me and has gone completely wrong in the past. It has to be about directing on targets. Rooms send on targets. And so does Mr Stoffer. He can learn about those goals. Furthermore, we simply have to look year after year at how the responsibility of the fund runs. This includes budget law and so on. But now to look at the current projects, which I do not know, in order to assess whether the criteria are good, is the reverse world. Mr Stoffer should not want to do that. He must consider himself higher. It is not the project promoters who determine what the money is needed for, but it is Mr Stoffer, who, through the criteria and his parliamentary law, determines the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u126	Final word, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u127	I am really looking forward to that debate on the Growth Fund itself. I think that's going to be a good debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u128	Me too! We now come to climate and energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u129	Ah, but Mr Amhaouch has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u130	We have a very nice fund, the National Growth Fund. I must say, quite a lot of people were surprised at how the first trial went. That went pretty fast. It was also said at the time: we have to submit projects. The ministries themselves have looked at what is feasible in the short term. So there was a hat, but we didn't see that rabbit coming. I find the answer to the written questions rather unclear, so the following question. The second tranche will come in spring, but it is a lot of money and a lot of major projects. Companies are working on it, provinces are working on it. So can the Minister promise that he will come forward with a very short-term description of how this procedure is going to develop and what the time span is? Surely we cannot say at such a large Growth Fund: somewhere in the spring the second tranche will start? That doesn't fit in with the allure of such a beautiful project.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u131	I am, of course, still a little dependent on how the parliamentary procedure goes. A certain modesty suits me. Mr Amhaouch's first sentence was: we now have that fund. No, we haven't got anything yet. It depends on Mr Amhaouch whether we have that fund, and I now have some reservations. I can set up a whole fund that is not there yet, but I have to look at the Chamber first to see if the co-legislator is charmed by this. So I would like to be somewhat cautious. But let us come back to this in the debate on the Growth Fund. Is that an idea? I wanted to move on to the subject of climate. I would like to thank the various speakers for the simply nuanced input and their response to what we are doing now. Hundreds of parties are working on a climate agreement, and I think that deserves the right words. A few marched to full war strength with militaristic rhetoric, but overall I found it... Mr Sienot feels addressed, but he should not. What facts are we dealing with? For it is clear that more needs to be done. I have just said that we are in a situation where we cannot read exactly when we are doing what we are doing. We have to adjust every year. So that's what we should do this year. This is the first KEV, in which what is already ready for the Climate Agreement is put on the grill. In the beginning, we presented a kind of planning for all these measures: what should be done when? In the beginning, Corona took us to a disadvantage, which later largely ran into us. So gross mode is the planning in terms of activities in order. But that means that there are measures that have not yet been crystallised. Some of them, for other reasons, are a little less than I had hoped. About half of the measures could be passed on, from another we knew it would not be finished. One measure that I had hoped would be completed, for example, is the CO levy. We knew it wouldn't be through the Chamber yet, but I thought we had a definite price path. But what did we agree on in the Climate Agreement? We would also base the price path on European subsidies, but they are not yet fully available. As a result, the PBL could not understandably make that price path yet and therefore there is no definitive price path in it at the moment, so that the measure could not be fully passed on. So some of it is not finished yet. My second point is that I was somewhat reassured because of the measures that could already be passed on, because these calculations are not disappointing. Grosso mode is the estimate of what could be calculated about what was in the Climate Agreement. But what's new though some things aren't entirely new, because they've been rolling from the band before, but they've never been in a KEV before is that there are some things in there that I can't blame any of the hundreds of performers of the Climate Agreement, but which do mean that there's work to be done. I call the statistical adjustments. A number of megatons of extra emissions have been found in the statistics following the completion of the Climate Agreement, but we have not agreed on sister and so much megaton, but 49%. So I have to cut 49% of the new emission sources. We haven't made it yet, but that's what the Climate Act says; that's how we agreed. No one else can do anything about it, it's nobody's fault, but that's what happened. Furthermore, in the past we have worked with a PBL estimate for the gas price and the energy mix. Well, it's falling out quite differently, because the Germans are also making a bit more speed with the shutdown of their coal power stations. That means a few things. At European level, that is good news. Everyone knows that. This means, for the same climate law, that we have to provide compensation for this. That's just the way it is. We can say we couldn't help it, but it's a law, an obligation, and we have to implement it. This means that some of the tonnes still have to be passed on. Twenty-five megatons have been calculated. 20 megatons of that have yet to come. We have the effect of all these adjustments since the conclusion of the Climate Agreement and that is about 14 megatons. Mrs. Mulder also asked how far off we are. Well, if the measures that have not yet been calculated would produce what we think, I think there are uncertainties in them and I do not dare to guarantee that; I do not yet sign them and the PBL is in charge of saying that we only have the setbacks to compensate. We still have to do about 14 megatons to reach 49%. I saw a recent estimate in which the bandwidth now ends at 46. I think that's pretty high when you think those exogenous effects are so big. I honestly think 46 with those exogenous setbacks is unlikely. At least I'm afraid to bet on it. Anyway, what does this mean? This means we have to compensate for that. We have also strictly taken a rhythm for this in the Climate Act. I don't want to say that we have to stick to that. Look, if measures have not yet been implemented, they must be corrected immediately that year. If there is insufficient progress due to all kinds of changes in the environment, this should be corrected somewhere after the 2021 KEV. I think it would be wise to look at this earlier with a new cabinet and to go ahead already; I will say something about it in a moment. So there is no need to wait for that. We have a complete review of sectors every five years. The Climate Act says that, and in all honesty, this means that we simply have to get to work now. They're working on that, too. There is a committee that looks at both the possible additional measures on this package and the measures we need if a 55%, if any, would be embraced by the Commission in 2021. Then we'll get a share of that too. So that's a bit of the picture. Do I think it's weird that this is coming out? No. In fact, I expect that all Cabinets between now and 2030 will continue to look at how the world has changed every year, and in all honesty thereafter. It is very important that we stick to the goal and that the measures are at the service of the goal. We're gonna see it again next year and the year after that. Sometimes it's not that bad, but sometimes it's not that bad. Things are complicated. This is the adventure we entered into. We're struggling with the task. Whoever imagined an autopilot might have been naive from the start. Mrs Dik-Faber asked this question. She says: in November there will be... I know the question as hers, but she wasn't there. Then it must have been Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u132	We might hear it from the answer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u133	Yeah, we're gonna hear it from the answer. That committee will be coming up with all its plans in November. We've been asked, what are we going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u134	Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u135	Yes, Mr Bruins. Look, I know the origin of some of the questions. Sometimes that bothers me a little bit. I know Mrs. Dik-Faber. Mr Bruins asks: what are we going to do with that? He's not coming in November. It's coming up at the end of the year. I think there are two things that can come out of that. There may be a number of things that we can say: they are no regret, affordable and sensible. Then we could still decide to do so. But in all honesty, I also find it a little uncourteous to ignore in large steps or in large investments that there might soon be another cabinet with other ideas, preferences or a different weighting. Walking in the footsteps is at least uncourteous. It means that it will undoubtedly have to play a role in the new period of government. In collecting the ideas, Mr Sienot introduced the term: cover a longer climate table. I like that one. But how are we gonna cover it? That committee that's working on it has gotten ideas back at all those tables with all those stakeholders. There has also been an online event with 1,000 participants, in which people could present ideas. But in all honesty, I do not think that is quite the length of the table Mr Sienot is referring to. I like an online event with 1,000 people delivering ideas. But let me promise that I'm going to try to get wider input from society in addition to that I'm not going to charge the committee with new work. Think of SMEs, students, students, entrepreneurs, scientists. Let's try to make that table as long as we can. I like that initiative. I also think it's a nice verbal find. This means that, in accordance with the Climate Act, we should have some permanent concern about whether we are doing the sensible things and whether it remains cost-effective. But I would also like to leave aside a concern, in all openness. 'Cause I have a concern that's not in the pieces yet. I don't read my concerns in the PBL documents yet. But I think it's in next year. In the atmosphere of the experts and the scientists I hear them gong. It is also a concern which sometimes makes me less optimistic and which we should pay close attention to here. We have a climate agreement. In addition, we've been relying on what experts say. That's what I'm defending. I think that's wise. Sometimes things come out of there that you don't like, corona for example, maybe in climate terms, but I attach great importance to working wisely, not just with feelings, images and interests. Those experts say things. For example, the Planning Office for the Environment has all kinds of schemes and scenarios. In all there is a significant proportion of biomass in, for example, the built environment. CCS isn't the most popular guy in the class either, but it's very much in it. It was much wider in scope. Take the 1.5°C scenario of the IPCC. 30% of the reduction worldwide comes from biomass and nuclear energy. CCS is added to that, but I have not been able to see this quantified in reduction, because that is what it says on the basis of energy sources. Every year, the IEA surprises us with a visit, where it has extensive lists of things we serve up in the debate but which, according to the IEA, belong to it. And then the Green Deal. We don't know what's under the hood yet. The hood isn't open yet. But I do know that under the hood there are considerable amounts of biomass. That's what the experts say. All these sources of emission reduction have become severely discredited. The social debate on this is getting rather vicious. I think that the use of woody biomass is justified on a temporary basis, because these are not 80 years old trees. If they are 80 years old trees, Mr Van Raan and I are sitting next to each other in the benches telling them that this is not right. But the public support for it is very fragile. So a third of our task is simply on the road. Then it is attractive to offer all future alternatives and talk about innovation; I always say that, but it is far away. The sweet and tempting song of hydrogen is now sung in all Member States, but hydrogen is not an energy source. It's a carrier, a storage medium. Hydrogen is sensible, a system parameter, but it is not an energy source. It does not play a dominant role at least before 2030. We need energy resources after 2030, not just carriers before 2030. So that's a big concern. Moreover, at the same time, we are in the process of telling each other two things. The first is that the ambition should actually be raised. Intelligibly, with all kinds of expert reports and the coalition agreement in hand, there are still quite a lot of blue chairs, including my own chair, in this room that say: it should actually go up. Actually, we all think the costs should be reduced. We are all looking at the energy bill and we also think that the social costs should be reduced, because they all end up with us in one way or another. But the only proposals we're all getting sent and on the table are things that lower the target range and increase costs. On the list of things that are proposed to me are all things that are target range lowering and cost raising. That's what I'm worried about. I don't have the solution yet, but I think we should all recognise and discuss the sensitivities. I think it takes an iron discipline to keep us to the facts, because things that don't seem to be right but they're good. Things that seem to be good, but they're not good, they're bad. We have to stick to the facts. We should also go off on... We have to honor our experts. We need to maintain our expertise. We must honour and trust the institutions that we have, and which do not have so many countries. If they are wrong, they are academically wrong and then they recover automatically, because science is constantly talking to itself. That is what a sensible government can do: recognize that there are concerns and try to reason as wisely and rationally as possible, with openness about everything, with experts on the basis of facts and figures. And that's quite a job. For example, at Urgenda, which I now briefly comment on. Mr Van der Lee has asked. He asked for two things, first of all, are we gonna make it? Of course, that's the stakes. We are quite busy with measures in the coal sphere. They haven't been calculated yet. When someone reads the report superficially, he says: it's very uncertain if you'll make it. Yeah, uncertainties can never be erased. But the measures we've taken, you have to take them. For 2020, it is uncertain. I've always been very honest about that. Corona helped us a little, but that's help you don't want. So before 2021 and the years after, we must make sure that the verdict is complied with, because it can be copied to subsequent countries. Mr Van der Lee has put it with one sentence and quite a lot of precision. I also got a very vague answer at first, from: we do such good things. But no, Van der Lee actually wants the production of electricity from coal to fall further every year. By which he means, what are you doing between 2023 and 2030? I have to be honest about it: we'll do whatever it takes to get that verdict. For that all sails have to be added, because such a coal power plant cannot be wrestled in every direction. There's a maximum bet. Coal plants will end in 2030. For the time being, the measure does not apply. I'm not gonna make a better story out of it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u136	Mr Van der Lee is getting up, so he wants to create an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u137	I would have expected this answer from the Minister in his own right. That is why I asked another question. The combination of probably not getting Urgenda in time, the risk of getting back above 25% in the years after, the power of the verdict that is in place and the systematic nature of the climate law when it comes to the 2030 target, in my opinion, forces this incumbent cabinet to come up with additional measures. If the Minister makes the choice with regard to coal as he has just put it, then he will have to offer a different assurance in the form of new, additional policies instead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u138	Mr Van der Lee's question was about the years 2023 to 2030. The commitment is precisely to do things to make sure that we get the verdict on a multiannual basis, in the years 2021, 2022 and 2023, and who knows what. So, in general terms, I agree that we need to do multiannual things to get the verdict. As soon as this is no longer necessary, this measure is not foreseen and it will again be foreseen from 2030 onwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr Van der Lee, please use the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u140	Then I'd like an answer to that other question. Is there going to be an alternative policy? The Minister must have something ready when we shoot through the 25% again. Then start thinking, clashes very hard with what the Court has said. Then you get what we've seen with nitrogen, that suddenly parts of the economy have to be shut down. I'll just mention one possible outcome. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u141	My bet is right to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u142	Let Mr Van der Lee finish his sentence and then the Minister will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u143	I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will come to the Chamber with additional instruments before 1 February 2021 in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u144	I will soon inform the Chamber in what way through the coal measure and with what dimensioning and timelines I am committed to reaching the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u145	My question follows on from that, but I would first like to point out that the Minister's speech, which concerns him, is of unprecedented cynicism. Science and some parties in this Chamber have been warning for years that more needs to be done. The Minister himself said in previous debates that he started too late. The Minister is also constantly saying: we need to do more. In order to suddenly appear as the one who is concerned, is of a cynicism that is unprecedented. I know the Minister means well, but I don't think he even realizes how cynical that sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u146	Now you must ask your question quickly, otherwise you will have too long an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u147	Can the Minister or not guarantee that the Urgenda judgment will be passed this year? Otherwise, additional measures will have to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u148	I am working on additional measures. The Chamber knows in large part what measures they are. As soon as they're ready, I'll call it in. And that's the bet to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u149	The question is whether the Minister can guarantee that what is now standing will also be achieved. If not, what additional measures will he take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u150	As soon as I calculate my additional measures, I'll let this Chamber know. I'm very busy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u151	I have a question that fits in with that. The Netherlands must generate 14% of renewable energy by 2020. That goal is not being achieved and therefore the Netherlands has to pay 200 million to Denmark. We think that is a very sad situation; we are going to spend money from all the Dutch people in Denmark. That doesn't help the climate and makes people poorer. But now the PBL says that maybe this isn't even enough. Does the Minister recognise that conclusion from the KEV?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u152	Here too is the commitment to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u153	Yeah, that's how we beat every debate to death! 'Cause of course this is every time. Every time the minister says, "Our goal is to make it." Then such a deadline passes and then he says: well, too bad, still didn't make it. That way, we're wasting a hell of a lot of household money. I was expecting something more serious anyway. This is the big debate, the debate on next year's budget. Then you can't just say: well, our goal is to make it and if we don't make it afterwards, then we're just going to spend some money on another country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u154	Let's put it this way. If we had started at a much earlier stage, we would have achieved this renewable energy target, but it would have cost more resources rather than less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u155	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u156	Yeah, I'm afraid it's what it is. But Mr Van Raan still owes me an answer on cynicism. I see Mr Van Raan as the one who has promoted the climate issue in a great way before me. But that's not what I'm doing here either, and I'm not monopolising it at all. I have a very different concern, namely that the way in which we solve this must go at the lowest social cost, because we have to bear these costs together. And that's what I'm worried about. So I'm past the point of doing this. That was the coalition agreement. I've accepted that assignment, and I stand for it. I am referring here to the fact that we also have to make it and that so far the large quantities of proposals that come in are more likely to bring the target range out of sight than closer, and to increase costs rather than lower. That's the concern I share here. We're not gonna solve that today, but I wanted to put it down. And that other concern was Mr Van Raan; he was with it earlier. But I don't mean that one either. He's not in question anymore either. We have a coalition agreement on that. Mr Harbers is actually asking for direction. How do we ensure that all these parts come together, especially in the field of industry? This steering role will be more than in the past for the government. We have developed a system that looks a bit like infra-planning. That is the multiannual programme Infrastructure, Energy and Climate, those cluster energy strategies. There, these companies are going to talk to each other at a very detailed level about the exchange of heat, intermediates and residuals. Those cluster energy strategies will be matched with those RESs, because they are related to them; they are also part of such a RES. They are aligned with the Transition Vision Heat and in one case the North Sea Programme also has a relationship with it. And all this fits back into the Energy Main Structure Programme, which is the plan that the SES's and the RES's have received. Then we are still working on a legislative programme to remove legal obstacles. However, Mr Harbers says that the Council of State is calling for a more coherent legislative programme. I am not at the stage where I consider that the precise views of the Council of State on this matter are beyond doubt copyable to this system. However, I would like to undertake to discuss with the Council of State how this coherence should be further improved. That is my commitment to Mr Harbers, in relation to his comment on the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u157	Mrs Mulder has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u158	Yes, thank you, because I have tabled a motion on this in the past together with Mr Van der Lee. We're thinking about whether we might do the same today. But that coherence is very important and we really do miss that direction. So I think that the Council of State point is really very important. When's that gonna come?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u159	Well, I don't know if we're missing direction. I have here a list of letters that I have sent about how all kinds of points of part-direction are put together and how those chunks are connected again. That's a very long list. So I don't subscribe to the lack of direction. I agree, however, that the Council of State, after studying it carefully, says that there are opportunities to ensure further coherence in the legislative programme as well. And I'd like to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u160	Mr Harbers of the VVD stands up for his interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u161	Maybe it will be in the Minister's speech shortly, but I still miss two things in the Minister's list. If you're going to make a comparison with the MIRT, we need to see how we can build it very well from the start. I think that the legislative programme is also concerned with the coherence between the laws that are coming. There's a heat bill coming up. It's in consultation. The Minister also plans an Energy Act. That's a bundling of laws that already exist. It warns of the interrelationship between these laws, not only by the Council of State, but also from the field. All these criteria must be consistent. I think 2021 is the year in which this type of coherence needs to be established. The same applies to the coherence with the available instruments in the SDE++. I pointed that out yesterday. Maybe you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u162	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u163	You cannot have a multi-annual programme on the one hand, and on the other hand, grant instruments that are not in line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u164	I'll get to that. Mr Harbers has asked three interrelated questions. I think this is exactly the port of the commitment I just made. The Council of State considers that existing and future legislation can be better coherent. I am not yet convinced that the best solution is exactly what the Council of State recommends. That's what I'm talking about. We'll go back and see how that's possible. That would be my promise. I'll get back to you on that. Another point from Mr Harbers, which he has just mentioned, is that if we want sustainability, we must also have instruments that are equipped for that purpose. In industry, for example, this is the SDE. Within the SDE process efficiency plays a very important role for some sectors. It is true that we had very high expectations of this at the time of the coalition agreement. I still have it, but it's turned out to be a lot more complex. I also mentioned this in the debate on the CO levy when Mrs Lodder asked for it. We're very busy working on that. I think that is really very important, also because for some sectors this would be one of the most important drivers behind sustainability. We haven't quite figured that out yet. I have not yet been able to give her, and that is also true of Mr Harbers, a time limit on which I think this vehicle is rolling off the tire, or the child is being born. I don't have that on offer. I hope to be able to say more about this later. Infrastructure is another debinding condition. If some types of infrastructure aren't there, it doesn't help. Everyone knows Tiki by now. There will be a national programme of infrastructure for renewable energy. This is arranged within the clusters. At the end of the year this should be known in general terms for these clusters. Then we must have the proposals. In the spring, the partners from the clusters and the cabinet will integrate them into the multi-annual energy infrastructure programme. Parallel to that, we have the hydrogen backbone. The completion of that exploration is expected at the beginning of 2021. In the field of CO infrastructure, for example, we have the predecessor Porthos in Rotterdam. It should be fully operational by 2024. We also have specific problems. I would like to mention Chemelot as an example. This concerns the transport of CO by ship. All these things happen. What if there isn't? There's only one recipe for that. Well, two. One recipe is that we keep in constant contact with the clusters. I just mentioned Tata as an example. That's where it happens very intensively. We also have a buffer pot under the CO levy. It's meant to fix things in the infrastructure that could somehow go wrong somehow. That's how we have to do it. Again, this is also covered by the general adage that we do not fully complete the overall road map until 2030. Every year we have to look at where we stand and steer wisely where we need to. That is always the commitment. Dan has... let's see. Then Mrs. Mulder. She lights up a specific group... Well, maybe we should go to Mr. Harbers first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u165	Isn't it Mr. Harbers first? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u166	At that point, though, because there is one thing I am missing. I read in the written reply that there will be a road leak in the spring for 125 million. The Minister says that the CO tax law is not yet in place. It's only from the moment we get there that we get to work. My call was mainly to get started already. Those concerns are serious and we need to make sure that all this is in that script in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u167	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u168	But I had also asked a question about the SDE++. Next year there will be a review of this and the instruments will be expanded on the basis of the first results. Earlier this year, we also debated this. But look at the instruments that are added to the front page at the same time at the instruments that the industry that has to pay the CO levy needs to get rid of that tax in time by making it more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u169	I think that is a sensible interpretation. In the first term, it seemed a bit like Mr. Harbers was asking for tools for specific companies. That's not what he means. He means that we introduce generic instruments that work specifically on those bottlenecks. Okay, that's very good, because we don't do regulations for specific companies, but we do generic schemes aimed at the problem where it's most difficult. Thanks for that tightening up. Ms Mulder specifically focused her contribution on the beautiful family businesses from the sixth cluster in Overijssel. Look, that's a specific cut! Don't tell me there aren't any people's representatives here. But the same goes for this. All these programmes are being worked on, including those for that sixth cluster. We have Koplopperprograms. RVO is looking at it. In consultation with industry, we are going to set priorities and make these no-regret measures concrete. Local authorities are involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u170	The family business just has our hearts, which is why we will always stand up for it. They are often sustainable by themselves, towards their staff, but also to organise the future in such a way that they can move forward in the right way. We know that the Minister has said that the no-regret measures can be taken in the immediate sphere. Our question on this is whether the Minister can come up with the plan at the front and not at the back with the repair jar. Can he come up with a plan for how we're gonna fix that? Last Monday we discussed this with each other in the context of the CO levies. So I really do see a link. How are we gonna do that? Last Monday, the Minister said that he did not know exactly what he could or could not promise given the hustle and bustle on his department, also by covid. But what exactly is the commitment in that regard today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u171	I don't know if I'm ready for an exact commitment on family businesses from the industrial cluster in Overijssel. I'm not gonna live up to that. I'm going to make sure that the processes are arranged in such a way that you can see what's going on in advance. We see those charges coming. We know what the task is. The parties are also engaged in a cluster exchange on whether one can help the other. That's all now; that's happening now. That's what we're doing right now, with very sensible people. The clusters are close to us, too. There's almost a match between the clusters and they're also proud of the result. They're never without worries, but if you come in early with concerns, you'll have a long time to do something about it. Mrs. Mulder also asked about hydrogen. That takes a lot of resources. How are we gonna do that? Mr Sienot just asked the same question. Sienot also asked for this in the first term and Moorlag and Bruins as well; I am trying to do everybody justice. That's important. We set 3 to 4 gigawatts as targets in 2030. That could cost some billions of dollars on total funding. Not necessarily all this should end up in the Empire, and that is a whole amount of money. Well, in general that budget stands for system integration, storage and conversion, so also in the field of hydrogen, half a billion. But we do it like other countries often do it with their hydrogen. In particular, the RRF fund is worth 5.5 billion for the Netherlands, an important part of climate technology. Hydrogen is a very good candidate for that. The Just Transition Fund is also a logical candidate, because those regions, which are particularly affected by transition problems, often have energy-intensive activities or produce energy, and thus benefit from that new medium. So we could also work with this to an important extent. Then there is the European Innovation Fund, which contains ten billion. And I've called the green fund, oh, excuse me, the Growth Fund, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Is that what it's all about? No, it's not. We're not just magicing some billions on the table. These funds are a very good start. They are not yet birds in the hand; they are still in the air, and there is also a lot of work to do. That doesn't differ from how other countries do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u172	There is a question for you on this point, from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u173	Yes. Look, now we're getting somewhere. Six months ago, it was still dark how we were going to finance green hydrogen in this country. The train has been set on track and a number of stations have now been appointed, so to speak. Now the investors want to know: when can I expect him? I understand that the Minister cannot say that here, but can he somehow give that clarity to the market? Otherwise, everyone will be waiting for everyone and people will leave the stations again. I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u174	Let me give you an example. Conditions are attached to the Recovery and Resilience Fund. These conditions are probably quite significant for political decisions in this country. Then you will simply want to involve a next cabinet or a next coalition or a next chamber. So we shouldn't pretend that we've all taken care of things in the last few months. It is logical that Mr Sienot would also agree that after the elections you should involve parties that you might not automatically involve in the same way now, at least that is conceivable. So we can't get everything around this reign. But we are also talking here about the 2030 target and we are talking about funding that is not immediately implemented. So that's how we're supposed to do it, I guess. I think it wasn't Mr Sienot's expectation that we would be taking the RRF in just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u175	No, definitely not. Although I know that France and Germany, for example, are fishing. What was my goal is something I don't hear either, and I think it's amiss. More sources have been mentioned. About the RFF I would say: join in, otherwise other hijackers on the coast will take it away. But at those other stations that have been mentioned, people need to know: when is that train coming and what can we count on? If the cabinet only says "yes, that's what a next cabinet is going to decide," then there will be a formation and then we'll be months away. We cannot use this in the development of this sustainable fuel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u176	We have just discussed the timing of the Growth Fund. These proposals could also be included. Again, I'm not the one to be called upon to do that. In the end, the fund itself must make known the proposals it has received. But that could be very good. We have the Just Transition Fund; that's what the Secretary of State is doing. She'll say something about what she thinks the timing is. But not everything is in for this cabinet period. If I'm being very honest, Mr. Sienot and I are both of the impatient kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u177	So do I, so I give the floor to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u178	The Minister keeps talking, but I'm listening to you, Mr. Chairman. You have the direction here. Let's talk about the recovery fund, the RRF. From there, Minister Hoekstra said he was determined to participate in that first round. It's open now. The European Commission's criteria came in September. There are already countries that have submitted a plan to participate in that first round. The deadline is 30 April. Then there is probably no new cabinet yet, so this cabinet will have to do something to come up with something of a plan in that first round, so that we do not lag behind other countries. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs see that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u179	The Dutch government is strong in this respect. Without coloring and without prioritising political preferences, this kind of thing is being prepared, so that after elections there is a sensible basis for the political discussions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u180	But is the Minister of Economic Affairs as determined as the Minister of Finance to participate seriously in that first round from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u181	We consider that to be quite the same. At the same place Hoekstra also said that he recognizes that this cannot be done without discussion with parties who might then be there. Mr Bruins remembers that. I'm saying the exact same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u182	Please continue. How much time do you need for your cube of climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u183	I'm trying to speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u184	How much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u185	I don't know how much time. Again, I'm impatient, but I'm not talking about the interruptions. I'm gonna try to speed up. You want me to do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u186	I'd like to hear an estimate anyway. I just want to know how much time you would need without interruptions to answer the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u187	Shall I say I'm trying to do it in half an hour?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u188	Then we're gonna suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u189	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u190	Shall I try to be smoother as an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u191	Then you will be immediately interrupted by Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u192	I was wondering if the Minister would come back to the subject of biomass, because I have a question about that. If not, I'll suggest it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u193	I have completed most of the questions on biomass in writing. There is one question from Mr Van Raan, I believe, which will come later. I just can't find him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u194	You're gonna get to a block of biomass in a minute? Or will Mr Kops ask his question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u195	No, I've got a little block of biomass. I'm gonna try to go a little faster, but then it automatically gives less respect to the questioner. Mr Sienot asks how we are developing the hydrogen economy, not just funding, but the broader story. The crux is that the Netherlands wants a place in the chain. We aim to make Rotterdam and the Netherlands a hub for hydrogen. The new gas roundabout is the hydrogen hub. To kick that off, we have signed a memorandum of understanding with Portugal on cooperation to help implement an export and import infrastructure for green hydrogen between these two countries. Portugal will become an exporter of green hydrogen. Mr Moorlag states that there are many opportunities in the North of the Netherlands, but that in Emmen there are difficulties in getting the chain organized. He's asking what EZK is doing about it. That is where the commitment has been made that I will organise a meeting in which the chain issues surrounding the competent authority will be fully discussed between all those involved and our specialists at EZK. This will be started this year. It then looks at how the investment and operation of hydrogen production plants could be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u196	We are also looking to create space for Energy Management Netherlands, EBN, to take a position in the ambition in Emmen. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Climate Agreement and its impact on SMEs. A question has been asked about this by Mr Harbers and Mrs Mulder. The central point of many concerns is the sustainability of business premises and the sustainability, read electrification, of transport. Of course, we know that there are many opportunities for SMEs, for example in the installation sector. We take note of the opportunities and then focus on the concerns. I have already mentioned a number of issues on this subject, but I have also made agreements with SMEs, both substantive agreements and procedural arrangements. I do not want to dwell on the generic policy with regard to SMEs. Until Corona there is a very generic policy. A lot of generic policy belongs to my colleague, the Secretary of State for EZK. But an important commitment I made to SMEs, to the industry, is that we need to think about funding. It's not always about payment or about uneconomic summits. It's just about: it's a good idea, but the money isn't there. It's about funding. In the field of business buildings, among other things, I would like to make a commitment and say that with the Minister of State, I am going to look at how we can develop the market there, through open standards, care concepts and off-balance financing for business buildings. People do not immediately run into the liquidity issue, but can then take advantage of opportunities that are attractive in themselves but which they cannot afford now, because the primary business processes require more attention. Specific instruments are also being developed, such as a scheme for energy saving measures and a zero-emission purchase subsidy for vans and an idem scheme for trucks. The trade associations are involved, but with the Secretary of State of IenW we specifically look with SMEs-Netherlands at the purchase of electric vans. I have previously described to the Chamber the SME vouchers and the announced digital tool is under development. The most important issue is funding. In the long term, making them attractive alone is not enough for SMEs. Mr Sienot called for the RESs to be drafted swiftly. He also wants me to support the RES's. The answer is simply: yes, not only that, because I am also working on a follow-up to the National Programme RES's in 2021, so that we can continue to do so. Last weekend I studied the website that I always call the Agnes Mulder website. That also has to do with the RES's. That website is from my head energy transition.nl. I invite everyone to look into that. Eventually the name agnesmulder.nl didn't make it, but she said at the time: do best practices and so on. I thought it was a great site with very good ideas. Mr Van der Lee has asked me about the 680 million in cash. I'm not gonna keep pious stories about that. This is a manoeuvre with a purely financial logic, and nothing but that, without a policy-based underpinning from the climate side. Let's put it this way: at least it is no longer possible to do a selection of the SDE jar without directly affecting the target range. What is in cash is sufficient, but another grip will inevitably change that judgment. I'm not gonna make it prettier than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u197	But maybe there will still be questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u198	I don't know if that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u199	First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u200	It is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u201	It is what it is, says the Minister. But of course, that's a bit harsh, because we've all been saving up for that pot together, households and companies. I have pointed out in my contribution that there are 650,000 people in energy poverty, but those people have contributed to that pot. And then there's a gray out of it and they might not have anything on that gray either, because we don't really know if that is the case. Can the Minister really guarantee that that will never happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u202	I can't speak for my successors. I can't, but let me put it this way. Perhaps it is somewhat harsh to choose my own words, but at least it is a guarantee that if someone takes a grasp of them now, the assessment of whether there is enough money will change from enough to insufficient. So it is no longer possible to do a handful of cash there, because then there is too little left to achieve the goal. Now there is still enough, but we go further, then it is no longer enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u203	But we're not gonna make it! That's the problem. I really can't understand that if we propose to get something out of that SDE+ pot, every time the minister says, "No, you can't. That's improper use of the pot. What makes you say that?" One of my proposals, for example, is to get money out of it to make homes more sustainable for those who are now in energy poverty, so that they get a better home, a lower energy bill and a job. But if the cabinet itself needs some money for something that is completely unrelated to sustainability, then it's fine, because... I do not understand that and therefore I would like to ask the cabinet once more about this. We now see that the corona crisis makes energy poverty even deeper, and isn't that the time to use extra money to make homes more sustainable and for collective solar panels, specifically targeted at that group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u204	If we put away 20% of the money for another purpose, we simply will not make it. Let me put it this way: driven purely from my own portfolio, I cannot, of course, be happy with this funding. We then had to deal with the problem of nitrogen, and we had to do this from the broader responsibility for the whole government policy and the financing of nitrogen policy. That's what I stand for, but purely driven from my own wallet, I didn't think it was a party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u205	Mr. Van der Lee, your last interruption. Go ahead. Guess not! Please continue, Minister. Mr Van der Lee knows that we agreed on four interruptions and that it will be done afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u206	It is not a hygiene issue, it is a question of speaking time. Mr Van Raan asks me or a very honest answer. He asks me if I personally think that the use of biomass is climate-neutral. Well, not necessarily. I'm gonna say something later, but my thesis was this. That whole story about us cutting down 80-year-old forests is just not right, because we're using residual wood from the wood industry for this. But Mr Van Raan can also ask his question more broadly: do I think it would be wise to use wood for low temperature heat development for years? Then I'll say no. It's just a thermodynamic principle that you have to use one of those rare high-temperature sources where it has the greatest value. Moreover, there is not so much residual wood, because there is so much of it left in the wood industry. There's some pruning wood, but it's not infinite. I really do. That's my background and that's what I got my education for. At the same time, I would like to ask Mr Van Raan three questions for return. All specialists say this is temporary and we don't have any alternatives yet. Can we ignore that? If Mr Van Raan were standing here with not only the responsibility to criticize the policy from his ideals and ideals that I subscribe to, but also with the responsibility to provide energy to the whole of the Netherlands with great security of supply and to get things moving, would he not think that in my place, in some way, listening to all those experts, there are two things that are needed? There is a need for a certain commitment, and we must recognise permanently that this is not the final objective and that we must work hard to come up with alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u207	Mr Van Raan would like to make his final interruption on this subject. Go ahead, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u208	Mr President, there are three questions such as interrupting, I wonder. But I understand the mechanics. I'm happy with the answer. I think it is a fair answer, but the question was also what the Minister himself thinks. I'm also glad he's on the path to getting rid of this as soon as possible. At the same time, however, the experts also say that you may have another expert meeting on this subject, which means that the burning of these trees now, of that woody biomass, is going to hit more air than even coal. So you really need to quit as soon as possible. Does the Minister already agree with that? Or he waits a little longer and then he says next year: "I actually agreed; I should have been faster"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u209	No, I'm not buying that. And why not? There is no alternative but to see the biomass system as a system. There's a place in the chain where there's emissions. Sure. But that is incomparable to what we have in gas and coal power stations with materials stored over the last few million years. This is just pruning wood, residual wood from the wood industry and thinning wood from the wood industry. Otherwise, it's just rotting in the woods or it's being fired somewhere else. That's something else. You can say: emissions are ditum or date, but considered at system level... Mr Van Raan's statement is technically correct, because there is such emissions. But at system level, it's not right. This is what I just meant. We only get out of this together if we recognize the facts and the total knowledge about a system. And that is both that this is not sustainable in the long term and not a sensible one, and that we now have a system that, provided that the conditions are met with all the certificates and all the things we do, is a sensible solution in the short term. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u210	And yet... The Minister talks about a system approach, but the system he approaches is too small. First of all, the idea is not true that there would be residual wood or wood that a forest does not need. It's an assumption that doesn't add up. Secondly, you can also use the wood that is used for other purposes. So once again, I am very pleased that the Minister is making the move to get rid of it as soon as possible. But is he also willing to add actions to that? And I don't see it yet. I see we're still just going through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u211	Sure, but I'll tell you about that later. We have agreed that there will be an end date for woody biomass in low temperature heat solutions. That deadline should be established and accompanied by both a phasing-out strategy of this application and the phasing-in of the alternative. The ESC and the PBL say: a feasible but also affordable phasing-in of the alternative. That's the bet. I also invite Mr Van Raan to do so completely, if we quote from the IPCC, the IEA, and the Plan Bureau for the Environment. Not only do they quote when they talk about what is needed for the 1.5°C, but also when they talk about what is unfortunately inevitable in the short term as an application. But I think we are here now... Well, it is up to Mr Van Raan, but I think everything has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u212	But Mr Kops has a question for you. He'd already announced it. Mr Kops, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u213	Earlier, the Minister said that the public support for biomass is fragile. I think you can say that. In the meantime, I think there's a majority who just wants to get rid of it. At the same time, the Minister says that biomass is temporarily needed. Now he says and writes: by the end of 2020 there will be a phasing-out date. I'm so curious what to think about. Can the Minister indicate a direction? How much longer is that gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u214	I don't know. Look, if I knew, I would have written it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u215	Okay, well, does that take six months, one year, ten years, twenty years or a hundred years? Which direction should we think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u216	I can now do the work of experts, at five to five in the debate on the budget. I can also ask Mr Kops, who probably has an opinion on it. But this is just something that needs to be looked at thoroughly. And that's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u217	Finally, Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u218	It can be seen from previous documents that grant decisions have so far been issued for biomass with a total value of more than 14 billion. In the written reply, the Minister then writes: the withdrawal of those grant decisions is impossible. If you look at those decisions like that, you can easily see a maturity of 12 years. Does that mean that we are stuck with biomass for at least 12 years to come, even though the Minister says that we are going to cut it down? The Chamber wants to quit, too. Is it true that we are still stuck with this for at least 12 years, with all the billions wasted on it? Twelve more years? Is it true that power stations are simply being built up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u219	I asked the Planning Office for the Environment for a year and a sensible phase-out strategy. I don't have one yet. Mr Kops asks me about the year and the sensible phase-out strategy, but I do not have it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u220	A short word on this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u221	That, of course, is not an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u222	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u223	I am simply saying that grant decisions are made for 12 years. The minister says, "I can't withdraw it." Then it is true that these grant decisions are still valid for at least 12 years and that we are going to build biomass plants for a maximum of 14 billion for at least 12 years? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u224	That is the case with the current decisions. The phase-out strategy could have all kinds of variants on it. I don't know, and I'm not going to elaborate on that either. That's exactly the question we asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u225	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u226	Then I come to Mrs Beckerman's concerns about energy poverty. I said earlier that we are focusing on purchasing power and that we recognise poverty. I don't see specific energy poverty. But first let me focus on the number of 650,000. It is a number from 2014; it comes from a TNO report. More recently, we come up with smaller numbers of people who pay a very large part of their income in energy and who have a payment risk. In the 650,000 there are also people who have a very spacious lifestyle, have a lot of money, open the doors and windows wide open and set them loose. But that is not energy poverty; that may be behavioral poverty at the most. But that is not energy poverty. Mrs Beckerman's implied suggestion is that the energy bill is also rising. That's not true. Indeed, the amount, adjusted for inflation, of the energy account of an average household with average consumption does not increase at all over recent years. There'll be all kinds of households that have different ways... Very large houses that are very poorly isolated, rise considerably. We have just made an ODE shift that has benefited small households in particular and significantly less. So there are all kinds of deviations from that, but it is not right that we have an ever-increasing energy bill for average use, quite the contrary. The suggestion is also that the ODE would be a very important part of the energy bill and completely blown up. In 2005, we had the forerunner of that, the MEP. Now we have the ODE. It's not a big source of rise at all. It could have happened, but for that we have shifted those proportions. We have reduced the taxes on the energy bill of a household with an average consumption by €100. The following year these taxes increased by €0 and next year this increase is very limited, probably a few euros. Nevertheless, it is important to keep thinking about the energy bill, if only because the energy bill is also paying for energy that you may not want to use at all. An important part of the target group referred to by Mrs Beckerman could become part of that start-up engine, in which the corporations play a role. I said once that I would not be surprised if the average corporation house was preserved before the average private house. I hope that doesn't happen, but we brought it in as a starter engine. What could be the solution for households that pay a lot of energy? So what is the purchasing power issue? It's a cliché. Mrs Beckerman already knows the answer, but I fully support it. Every year we have income policies. Every year we do this in the August decision-making process. Energy is part of that and all the other burdens a household has are part of that. That's how we do it. I must therefore discourage the amendment, but that is what she thought. This isn't the way to do it. There are a lot of schemes for households. A limited proportion of households are now able to deal with house charges neutrally, but with this gas price that is only the demand. That means we have to keep an eye on that. That's all true, but cutting off 20% of the SDE is not the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u227	That is the point of the amendment. 7 dissuaded by the cabinet. I see two reports. Mr. Kops. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u228	I find it really very painful and embarrassing how easy the Minister says here: the energy bill for the past few years has not gone up at all; don't complain, because nothing is going on at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u229	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u230	Well, that's what it all came down to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u231	The energy bill for a household with average consumption...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u232	We're not gonna talk through each other. We are going to give Mr Kops the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u233	We hear the story every time: you have to look at the total picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u234	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u235	Go tell that to the people at home! What do you think they'd say to you? Don't bullshit me! Has the Minister forgotten that last year, according to the CBS, the energy bill increased by an average of €334? The Secretary of State answered questions about this in Question Time. The Minister later did the same. They both had to go deep through the dust and said: oh, we have all underestimated the increase in the energy bill. And now they say, "Ah, it's not that bad." Who's gonna believe this? And...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u236	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u237	In the written reply prior to the budget, the energy bill of a household with average consumption over the last 15 years is well-balanced. This clearly shows that there is no significant increase for that particular household. I have said that this is true of the household, but there are also households for which this is different, for example households with huge consumption. A villa could show a completely different picture. There will be households with particularly poorly isolated homes, for which it is also different. Each household is different, but the parties that keep this up for us, the CBS et cetera, report that it is not right that a household with average consumption in the past 15 years has started to pay more for energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u238	Those states are all nice, but what good is it for people at home? The minister just interrupted me a few times. It's nice that the minister is getting a little pissed off. That may be good news, because despite the Minister's fine words, 650,000 households live in energy poverty. The Minister can take that off with states, with income records and with all nice words, but those are people who literally turn off the stove for fear of the energy bill. But there are also sick people or older people who can't turn off the stove at all because of their health and who then end up in debt because they can't bear their energy costs anymore. That's just reality. What solution does the Minister offer these people? Surely he has to acknowledge that energy is a basic need? Surely he has to acknowledge that in a country like the Netherlands it is unacceptable if you literally have to turn off the stove and the lights because you can't afford it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u239	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u240	So what's he doing for these people now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u241	Your question was clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u242	There is no country in the world where purchasing power repair has become so much of a permanent tradition, but fact denial helps in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u243	Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman. At the same point, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u244	Facts denial isn't gonna help us anyway. That seems to me to be a good conclusion, because it is true that people are in energy poverty. That's not a 2014 figure. That's a figure about how things are going at people's homes. People just turn down their heat. They have to choose between warmth or a hot meal. It is rather embarrassing to say: yes, but those are people who have the doors and the windows open and then set the stove high. There are also definitions in which the very large group of people living in energy poverty does not even exist. People just have low energy bills because they're literally in the cold. So fact denial isn't helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u245	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u246	My question is: why does the Minister say every time we refer to households in the cold "we do not pursue income policies through the energy bill" when the minister himself does so for companies? The Minister always conducts energy policy through the energy bill. The biggest outcasts have to pay less, otherwise they'll end up in poverty. Why do you always use a different measure for companies than for poor households?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u247	We do have energy policy through energy prices and taxes, but we do not have income policy. We have income policy across all cost items. Again, no country in the world does that with as much finery as we do here. We do this in the August decision-making process. We must also take account of energy costs. They can be very different from one household to another. So there will also be all kinds of people who have had to deal with an increase in their energy bill over the past 15 years, but the average household............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Specific circumstances can always be there. It is complicated to come up with regulations for 7.5 million households in the Netherlands, but looking at the past fifteen years, the picture is not that the energy bill is generally rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u248	I think thinking about averages is the problem. The average human has one breast and one testicle, but that human doesn't exist either. The average energy bill no longer exists, as was shown by Friday's figures. If you live in a very bad home, your energy bill will rise rapidly over the next few years, while you may be improving if you live in such a beautifully preserved home. The average is therefore favourable, but the people who are in those poorly isolated homes are seeing their energy bill rise. Suppose you don't have anything to do with it, and if you think it's socialist nonsense to help people in energy poverty, that's fine, I'm sorry, but that's fine, but then there's another reason, that's climate change. It is precisely when we put those worst homes first and invest money in them that the Minister also makes a lot of climate gains. Then he also makes sure there are a lot of jobs. If you think my story is bullshit, at least listen to that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u249	I do like that side of the coin, because the houses that Mrs Beckerman is talking about will, to a large extent, also be found among the corporation houses. Those are also houses with shiny walls and here and there with only glass. It also pays the most to start with. In my opinion, this is exactly the starter engine that my colleague Ollongren is doing, with all the experiments and test areas and all. And that's exactly what we need to do. It's just this kind of housing that we need to isolate quickly. Preferably, this collective will be dealt with in such a way that other heating systems will be included. That's what I think. I don't have much to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u250	The average is the average across all households. Last year we had a discussion on this too. On the contrary, the average does not apply to older people who use much more gas than average and use much less electricity than average. This is because they are a more home and b have fewer devices. They were less helped by the compensation and more affected by the increase in the gas part. I can see that this is still being denied, because that is not in the plans and that is in no way in the repair. In the case of taxes, the old-age discount is much lower than the employment discount. I would ask the Minister what he thinks he is doing about this problem, because these older people are part of the group that has to do with energy poverty. The temperature that older people need is higher than the temperature that ordinary workers need. As a result, it is the elderly who need a warmer house, who notice that a gas load is killing them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u251	If you have shifts between gas and electricity, it affects different types of households in different ways. That's right. But also for the elderly, it must have been noticeable that there has been a shift in the ODE in a way that reduced the burden on households in general, including the households of the elderly. The measure adopted at that time, the ODE shift, has been good for everyone, for every household. I believe that there were certain very special households, including large households, which were not the case. But the reduction of the ODE for households has certainly also contributed to older people. It is true that it is complicated to design a policy for each specific target group separately. And that's why it's so important that, when you add up all these policies, you look at purchasing power afterwards. In addition, the elderly form a separate category that is being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u252	However, the separate energy consumption of older people is not mentioned separately in the calculation of purchasing power effects. 'Cause then it's all gonna go on. Then it's about the averages again. So it is not about the specific higher gas consumption and the lower electricity consumption. That's my point. That has not been remedied, and that has still not been remedied. That affects people directly in their wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u253	It is true that the precision of purchasing power plates also knows its limits. I totally agree with Van Otterloo. Not a bad word about that. He's right about that. But the degree to which we are very precise also knows its limits. It remains that the ODE reduction that has been made for households has also been a windfall for many older people and not a setback.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u254	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u255	Then there's an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u256	In part No. 11, or in part No. 12?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u257	That's a great question. From Mr Sienot c.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u258	In part No. 12. That was the amendment in part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u259	Yes, the amendment to item No. 12. This amendment actually calls for the opening-up of the postcode rose subsidy scheme to increase the commitment budget from 37 to 100 million and to finance it from the SDE. Well, there's a lot of cheering about that. I would like to give a sympathetic response to this, but I cannot escape a package leaflet. I have to make some comments on this, but you already have the goodwill. I'm not blocking this either. Two things. It is true that in the Climate Agreement, with all those parties at the table, we have set our sights as cost-effectively as possible. If you take a euro from an effective instrument and transfer it to a less effective instrument in itself, you have a reduced yield. Here it even saves to a factor of two. That means that for every ton you get out of here, you get half a ton of reduction for that. We can't keep doing that indefinitely. I understand the sacred purpose of acceptance. Once again, I am sympathetic to this, but we cannot continue to do this, because it is going to be more expensive and not cheaper. Eventually, more expensive isn't more fun. The second point was that the rams on the side of the department thought that the existing amount was sufficient. Now there are different signals about that. We're picking up all these signals. We also notice that there are parties that send different signals to different sides. I'm not gonna pretend to have the truth and the wisdom in rent. I note that there are different views and signals about that budget. In the end, this is related to my general point. I keep seeing again and again with all kinds of specific climate measures why it is socially attractive, but too often it is really my concern that they ultimately affect the target range or make it less cost-effective. I am fighting hard here for a higher purpose and lower costs, but the proposals I get point twice in the opposite direction. But nevertheless, I understand the goal of acceptance. Given the uncertainties in the budget and the different signals, I am giving this amendment judgement Chamber. But what we shouldn't have is what I'm going to do and now I'm going to come back to a common goal. If there were any real budget left in this scheme, it would not fall under the system of the SDE, in which it is retained for the purpose and passed on, but in which it falls to the state treasury. This means that 'Kamer's judgement' means that I can make the agreement with this Chamber that I will have the room to adjust the estimate of the cash expenditure for that scheme during the year if there is reason to do so and the question does not reach the level at which it is now anticipated. The appropriate time for such possible adjustment shall be the Year's Note only if it occurs. It can't be more than a legislative change. At that time, I am obliged to answer for that and to report to this Chamber why I think it is necessary. An amendment to the law is always possible, so the Chamber is at the wheel. Then I am counting on the common interest in that autumn to return any excess funds to the state treasury and to lose them for this purpose. This is not at the expense of the opening budget. If the amendment is adopted, it will remain 100 million. This is available until the opening of 2021 closes. Everything is honored to that extent, but the adaptation of the cash release is a technical exercise which is necessary to ensure that the resources that may remain unspent are not lost. With that agreement, I would like to give this amendment 'judge chamber' and see it become law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u260	Mr Sienot, you have one and a half more interruptions, I will give you a moment, because Mr Verhoeven has also caused an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u261	On a point of order, Madam President. We had four times two. Mr Verhoeven has two and I have two. I've repeated one of mine. That was about hydrogen. The Minister came back to that later. So we've both done two interruptions once now, cold-heartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u262	I've been keeping track of them, and I'm telling you, you have one and a half more interruptions. So you just need to ask your question right now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u263	I'm increasingly curious about the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u264	The question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u265	Bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u266	I agree with this approach. What appeals to me is the care and search for the most sensible way of dealing with community money. That is why I am so surprised that Enco's report was sent, which contained all sorts of assumptions about costs, which contained very wrong assumptions about costs and also wrong prices. I welcome the fact that yesterday there was a letter saying that nuclear energy can play a role and that it can play an additional role in the light of the sun and the wind. Well, at least that's what we have with each other. The VVD confirmed that yesterday. But that report that was sent out would never have come through quality control by the minister in his McKinsey time. Why does the Minister keep defending that report all the time? He agrees with us that we should do this as carefully as possible. Precisely the choices about this puzzle, which Mr Harbers was right to refer to, which we should make until 2050, must be careful. Then it is very important to deal with this as well as possible, that reports on it are beyond any doubt and that we avoid spending billions on a plant that may not be necessary or ever come to an end. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u267	That nuclear should play a role alongside sun and wind is already part of the report. Apparently, the researchers have taken that as a premise, because they have adopted all kinds of different variants for that. So that could never have been a point of discussion. I've been with the supporters, but that doesn't mean I've ever been with the opponents of sun and wind. Mr Sienot has no reason to think so. That's the point we need to park, because that's not a new finding. I do not agree that anything would be wrong with the report, but I do not agree with the fact that I will continue to defend it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's based a report on all kinds of sources. Fortunately, there is always discussion between scientists about anything and everything. I do not want to side with or defend myself in any way. So I honestly do not see that there is a difference of opinion between Mr Sienot and me. I am not on one side, so there can be no difference, in which I am fighting Mr Sienot. Apparently, he has a private opinion on this. I would like to invite him to do so earlier in order to allow scientists to comment on science and to discuss it with each other. We shouldn't do that through this room. However, it is his choice. I've received a motion from the Chamber. I've had an investigation done, which amounts to a literature study. This has led to a report and everyone is free to discuss it. By the way, there has been a follow-up motion in the Chamber, asking specifically for the Netherlands to see if there would be any enthusiasm for it and, if so, under what circumstances. I'm gonna do that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u268	You still have a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u269	But that's for my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u270	I'm out of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u271	Fantastic. I'll see if anyone else has a question. Yes, you may stand still for a moment, Minister, because Mrs Beckerman would like to devote her last interruption to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u272	I think I can put it in one question. I asked about Onyx, the coal plant. I had an answer to that in the written reply. It's about the staff there. At the closure of the coal power station Hemweg an appointment has been made, the Westhavenarrangement,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u273	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u274	...for everyone in the coal chain, so for everyone involved in that power plant. My question was very specific as to whether the chain is also involved in the closure of the Onyx and not just the employees of the plant itself. In writing, the Minister is only going into the plant, but we think it is very important that the people in the supply chain should not suffer from the closure either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u275	That's a good question. I think we have the agreement that the Westhaven arrangement will be linked in terms of design. Most of the time that sat in it came from colleague Koolmees. He took control of that. Once I was deep in the Westhaven arrangement, but I don't know exactly what it was like at this point. I must therefore remain guilty of the answer to that question. I will ensure that I have an answer to this in the second term. I get the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u276	Fine. We're gonna take it easy. I'm suspending the meeting for seven minutes so our messenger service can do this neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u277	I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the history of the Netherlands there are many years in which things have been going on fairly well. For the past year, it hasn't. There's been an unprecedented crisis. The covid virus has put a lot of people in a dark scenario. Newly graduated young men and women can hardly get jobs, even though they have learned so hard to do so. Students are having trouble finding an internship. Hardworking entrepreneurs have had to say goodbye to their life's work or a great passion they've been working on for years. I have had a lot of intensive discussions over the last few months with individual entrepreneurs, from self-employed to large companies, and their representative trade associations, especially in order to come up with solutions and financial support for them in these difficult times. Think of catering, events and fairs. I say to Mr Graus that I and many of my colleagues in the Ministry of Economic Affairs continue to hold these talks. And that is only the economic pain of this period. Let alone the final goodbye people have had to say to grandpas, grandmothers, fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters. Health is a big good. That's what it turns out to be. At the same time, this is what future prospects, jobs, prosperity and, consequently, well-being are. Health and economics are not opposites. They are inextricably linked. They can't live without each other. Today we are discussing the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. In short, this is about the plans for sustainable economic progress. We are not coming out of this crisis if we simply wait for better times. We must take action and innovate and invest out of the crisis, together with workers, the labour force, entrepreneurs and, of course, the Cabinet and the Second and First Chamber. It will certainly take time to restore the economy, our prosperity and our well-being, but we do have all the conditions in place: excellent digital and physical infrastructure, good schools and universities, brilliant scientists, golden hands and creative entrepreneurs who have Dutch solutions for global challenges. And, not to mention, the Dutch mentality of tackling and being open to new technologies and new products. These are crucial conditions in this economic crisis period. I now come to a number of issues that I will focus on in the following areas: innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises, digitisation, competition and consumer affairs and European funds. Since there has been a whole day of debate last Tuesday on the aid and recovery package for all entrepreneurs affected by the COOVID-19 crisis, I will not speak about it, although it is very important to me. However, in order to limit today's debate somewhat, I choose to do so with your agreement. I'll start with innovation. Whoever you are, whatever you do, innovation makes your current work easier and leads to new jobs. Recent research shows that start-ups account for 190,000 jobs, including 27,000 new jobs over the last three years. Scale-ups grow tremendously fast and also take on many people. More than ever before, as a cabinet, we are actively investing in innovation and the preservation and expansion of ecosystems. I am therefore very pleased with Mr Verhoeven's enthusiasm on this point. I share his view of the importance of innovation now and in the future. That is what we are working hard on, cabinet, companies and knowledge institutions. We're actually quite successful at that. For the first time, we are the most competitive economy in Europe and the fourth in the world, according to the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum. But that is not the only list in which we are in a good position. According to the Global Innovation Index and the European Innovation Scoreboard, we have only increased in recent years and are among the world's top. We want to consolidate and improve these positions. That's what we do on multiple fronts. For start-ups, we want to remove all kinds of bottlenecks, together with partners like TechLib. But I also want to emphasise here that innovation is not just a matter of start-ups and scale-ups. We can't live without the big companies. Think of the ecosystems around ASML and NXP in Eindhoven. That's not the only thing. Quantum technology also accelerates cooperation with Microsoft. Smart Photonics is a combination of small companies and large companies. In the field of AI, artificial intelligence, there is good cooperation with IBM. So I think it's good to stress every time that just the combination of good-looking heads, golden hands, start-ups and big companies makes us do as well as country in terms of innovation. But that's not something that stays on its own. Last week, we sent a cabinet strategy to the Chamber, "Improving research and innovation ecosystems," in which we emphasise the importance of these ecosystems and indicate how we can strengthen them. In the field of start-ups and scale-ups, a letter was sent to the Chamber last year, with a tightening up of policies and additional investment, adding 65 million. And very recently, of course, the vision of the manufacturing industry, which the Minister has already said a great deal about. Innovation therefore generates income in addition to jobs, for the Netherlands in general and for entrepreneurs. It also contributes to solving societal issues. The Dutch innovation philosophy is laid down in the Dutch top sector and innovation policy. Of course, I think that the combination of innovation policy and societal issues is the inspiration for other countries in Europe and for the European Commission. Whether it really is, you can disagree on that. But every time I talk about competitiveness and competitiveness in Europe, in Brussels, that is the pride that gets me. Mr. Chairman. One billion we added last Princess Day to support innovation. 250 million euros in start-ups and scale-ups. Invest-NL added such a sum. More money goes to the regional development companies: 150 million. The Seed Capital scheme for investment in start-ups, together with private investors: 32 million now and 20 later. Investing in entrepreneurs with a smart idea. Raising the Wbso, the Research and Development Promotion Act, which is Dutch for R&D, Chairman. Investment in key technologies: 33 million. Co-financing in EU programmes aimed at regional development of 255 million. And a contribution to a private fund to be set up to recapitalise medium-sized enterprises: 300 million. Finally, all the work done in retraining workers. That is very concrete for my budget 38 million, but the letter of aid and recovery contains a lot more money to ensure that we have a workforce trained to do that job. Mr. Chairman. We know from previous crises that investing in innovation in a timely manner is a prerequisite for success if the crisis is to be resolved properly. The Growth Fund is an example of this, but enough has already been said about it and it will be discussed later. Mr Stoffer is in the mood for this debate, as I have just noticed, and I think that is true of all of us. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to small and medium-sized enterprises. That is the foundation of our economy. Seven out of ten Dutch people are employed by small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u279	Before you take that step-over, I give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u280	The Secretary of State went so fast, but I wanted to ask you about innovation. It is true: we are very good at that. In response to the factual questions, the cabinet says that we are very good at developing that knowledge, but at the same time, when using that knowledge, we actually need to make a little bit of progress. Yesterday, I mentioned some examples of bottlenecks in legislation and regulations, for example. Sometimes it is rather complicated for a certain innovation to manage that something can be tested or that a small pilot can be started. For example, I mentioned SkinVision, which helps to detect skin cancer with algorithms. But they cannot immediately receive patient data in hospitals, because they then run into all kinds of rules, even if patients would like to participate themselves. The Secretary of State refers in the written set to a reporting point rule pressure. But that's not specifically about innovation. Could she see if she can add very specific innovation to that, so that we can help the start-ups that run into things like this a little bit better to get things done? Then they don't think "well, never mind," or "I'll go abroad to do this."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u281	Absolutely. The "laws and practical objections" from Elsschot's poem have been passed here several times. This was then on another subject, but we too must look at laws and practical objections. Mr Wiersma speaks in general about valorisation. With the OCW budget, that's called impact. That's simply about the question: how do you make a company of a brilliant idea that you have as a scientist, so that we all reap the benefits of it. That is what a comprehensive policy is for. Together with the Minister of OCW, we sent a letter on this subject and it is very well known to Mr Wiersma. If there are these kinds of obstacles, I would really like to say: please report, to remove these kinds of obstacles. There are all kinds of places where this can be done: at such a hotline, but certainly also at the Ministry or via Techleap or RVO. Otherwise, it's a waste forever. If you have a fantastic idea against something that can be solved, it just needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u282	That's very nice and right. I think it would be helpful if we could look again specifically at the reporting point called the Secretary of State, that of the RVO on the regulatory burden. When I look for it, it's kind of complicated to think as a start-up: hey, that's in my interest when it comes to innovation. Even as a room, it's hard to know what you're up against. Could the Secretary of State see if we can shed more light on specific innovation there, so that we can help start-ups knock on the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u283	Yes. Let me be brief about that. With every entrepreneur who reports with a rule he breaks, we need to see if we can solve that. Mr. Chairman. Then I will continue with SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. Then I can say again that that is the foundation of our economy. You can't say that enough. For them, it's been real survival in the last few months. We helped them with a lot of support. In this debate, it has mainly been about whether we support them sufficiently in the area of lending. What role do banks play in this? Are the arrangements that we have put in place for this? Yes, Mr Öztürk, absolutely. You spoke about this, in addition to Mr Amhaouch. Proposed: Smaller companies mainly finance themselves with equity capital, with retained profits. Where they do seek external financing, they are mainly bank oriented. In the financial monitor, which appears regularly, you can get information about this. In that you can see that about half of the companies with a financing need also find it. 40% of companies find them in banks. There are many factors that play a role in bank lending to small businesses. Access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises is clearly necessary. It is true that banks provide less loans of up to €250,000. This development has been used before. That is exactly why we want to broaden the funding market to other providers, where Qredits is one of them. In the non-bank segment, there is a significant growth in loans up to €250,000. In addition, the equity of small and medium-sized enterprises has deteriorated in times of crisis. Of course, that makes sense. If your company is not doing so well, of course you are looking, especially in small businesses, at your own savings. That is why, from the Corona Recovery Plan, we are committed to strengthening the solvency position of small and medium-sized enterprises with, for example, the strengthening of the regional development company's capital, the increased reduction in fixed charges and the reduction in the entry rate of the VPB. I therefore believe that we should not stare blindly at the low use of the Small Credit Corona scheme, the GO scheme and the SME scheme. That's not an end in itself. Banks, in total, have provided over 28 billion in funding, without these government schemes. Now they have done so for 1.7 billion with these arrangements. Only the KKC and the GOC are underutilised. However, it is important to make these guarantee schemes available, especially if the covid crisis continues. That is why we have also announced that these arrangements will be extended, and we have also budgeted guarantee space for them. Mr. Chairman. Then back to small and medium-sized enterprises, the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u284	First, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk of Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u285	After three years, the big word finally comes out: the big banks do not want to finance small businesses anymore. I've been calling this here for three years. For the big banks, a loan of up to €250,000 doesn't yield anything either. Account management must be rigged and all investigations carried out. They're just pushing the little entrepreneur aside. Maybe that's just worth a conversation. I have been asking the Secretary of State and the Minister for many years: what do they do for the small businessman? I think about the Qredits story, with 8.75% interest. I'll get back to that. The banks are dumping the little entrepreneur. People then have to go to Qredits, who charges 8.75% interest. The Secretary of State answers me that this is a market-based interest rate, because it is actually even higher in practice. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if she can call me banks or other bodies asking for a higher interest rate than 8.75% to give credit to small businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u286	First of all, I come to the interest rate of Qredits. We have already had this debate here once, in my view, during last year's budget debate. I said what I'm going to say now. The interest rate at Qredits has been reduced because of the good operating results at Qredits. In addition, that interest rate is not only the remuneration for the credit granted, but also for the service provided by Qredits. It's just not up to me to decide what an interest rate should be. Then there is Mr Öztürk's comment that banks are not doing anything for small and medium-sized enterprises. I've just said the following, so I'm falling into repetition. If you look at the Financing Monitor, you can see that just over 47,000 companies are reporting. Eventually, a lot of companies get the funding, of which 40% is a bank loan. So I will not say that an average SME is the first to expect funding from a bank. I hear those stories too, but at the same time 40% still find that loan with the banks. We have to be critical when something goes wrong. That is your job, by the way, and you must be critical. But to pretend that nothing is done by banks is not justified either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u287	We've had this discussion before. Then who are those 40% people? Those are just companies, multimillionaires, big companies where for years with low interest rates... I showed you the numbers here. The moment you ask for 10 million euros of credit, there's only a 1% chance you won't get it. The moment you ask for €250,000 credit, there is a 40% or 50% chance that you won't get it. Those numbers are there. We are constantly talking about figures of EUR 28 billion. Those are the multinationals. The Quote 500 has shown that the billionaires have become even richer. So we have a division in the banking world. Small businesses aren't getting anything. The multinationals are getting richer and richer, with lower interest rates. The small starter, about which you talk with beautiful words, has to pay 8.75% interest. A multinational that receives EUR 10 million of credit only pays 1% or 2%, while we, as a society, receive less interest from the same bank. You just have to be honest about that and talk to those banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u288	I'm repeating myself. Please check out the Financing Monitor 2019. Of the 47,300 companies with a financing need, 22,700 eventually find funding. 84% of these are small and medium-sized enterprises. 40% of companies that find finance find this in a bank in the form of a loan. It is right to say that fewer loans under €250,000 are provided by banks, absolutely. However, it is not the case that this does not happen at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u289	A brief word, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u290	Again, I understand that it is difficult to address large banks, because they have a powerful position in the Netherlands. I know, but you still have to do it. However, you must have the courage to appeal to the banks for the small entrepreneur, for the starter, for our economy and for family businesses. You must appeal to the banks not to forward people to Qredits by 8.75%, but to give people a credit for 2%, 3% or 4%. We are almost the worst lenders in Europe. We have been for years, and that is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State once again to show courage, to talk to the banks and to change this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u291	I don't think I'm known for being scared. In addition, from the cabinet Mr Wiebes, Mr Hoekstra and my person have already had two talks with the banks. We have said in those talks: you are now being given wider opportunities to grant loans through the SME-C and the KKC. I just said the abbreviations in full, Mr. Chairman. And so do the banks. It's being used and so... I understand that from Mr Öztürk's position it is better to say that things are not going well at all, but the facts simply indicate that this is not correct. Furthermore, we will soon be talking to the banks again to remind them of the guarantee schemes that exist and to encourage them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u292	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u293	Then the entrepreneurs themselves, Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the SME Action Plan has led to additional support in many areas. It has led to valuable collaborations, better legislation and regulation and appropriate services. I am thinking, for example, of the SME deals that encourage initiatives and projects for entrepreneurs through regional authorities. Mr Van der Lee asked me about the transitions. For the answer to that, I would like to confine myself to the transitions in the area of digitalisation. For this purpose, small and medium-sized workshops have been set up throughout the Netherlands, in 11 places to be precise. These workshops are aimed at digitisation and there smaller entrepreneurs and medium-sized companies are just very practically helped with online sales, online marketing and the use of data. We do so so that they can finally take that step towards the digital economy, which is going to be irreversibly there. We have 45 field labs in the Netherlands for industrial companies and 600 companies are affiliated. 6,000 students have been involved in this since 2015 and 22 new companies have emerged from it. Through the Technics Pact, we improve the integration of education into the labour market in the engineering sector, so that entrepreneurs can find the same staff. SMEs!dee is another way of helping entrepreneurs find innovative solutions to training issues, so that we can take another step towards that economy of the future. Mr. Chairman. The transition of small and medium-sized enterprises in the area of sustainability and digitalisation is extremely relevant, as I hear Mr Van der Lee's question to remain economically competitive in the future. Mr. Chairman. Renew, adapt and become more productive: that is what an entrepreneur should always do, especially at this time. It should mainly be part of the daily repertoire. Through the SME Action Plan, I wanted to support them from the outset. I keep doing that, in times of prosperity and in times of adversity! Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of digitization. I have just said a few words about this in response to Mr Van der Lee's question about the transition. That is indeed of the utmost importance. There are opportunities for additional jobs and income here, which will ultimately make our digital economy fairer, and I think that is absolutely also a subject that we should focus on, but also make cybersecurity more secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u294	Secretary of State, there is another question about the previous block, because Mr Van Haga is coming to the interrupting microphone running.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u295	In my view, I would still have an answer to the question about increasing the regulatory burden, where SMEs in the Netherlands had calculated that 1.15 billion additional rules on SMEs had been paid out every year. That is extremely exhausting and I was curious to see what we were going to do about it and how it could have come to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u296	What we are going to do about it is also a bit of a question of what we have already done about it. When this cabinet took office, it was explicitly decided not to take any more regulatory pressure just in a calculation. Precisely because of concerns of entrepreneurs themselves, it has been chosen to move from a quantitative approach to reducing regulatory pressure to a qualitative approach, so that there is actually significantly less or better regulation. We do that in all kinds of ways. The Van Straalen Committee is looking at existing rules. We have the SME test, which tests whether new legislation is needed, whether it is possible to do so. We actually do that with entrepreneurs themselves. We have ATR, the college that also reviews new regulation as part of the legislative process. That is what we have done very specifically, and I think that the latest progress report has just been sent to the Chamber, or it will come soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u297	That is of course very good news and it is nice that it is all noticeable and qualitative and perhaps not very quantitative. But then I am surprised that SMEs in the Netherlands say: despite these fine words, we have gone up the beet bridge at 1.15 billion a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u298	I will not deny that there is a regular need for new legislation, which immediately affects entrepreneurs and which they must introduce into their daily operations. I haven't been able to check the math. I think this plan of the week or the end of last week has been presented. But the fact that we live in a rule of law and that we have a legislative power that makes new rules, or that we do so within the cabinet, is obvious. This is often done on the basis of a social need. What we need to do is to ensure that this regulation is not unnecessary, that the rules do not contradict each other and that they are enforceable. We need to pay attention to smaller entrepreneurs. For a large company, it is often many times simpler to introduce new legislation than for a smaller company. That is what my policy has focused on in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u299	As the Secretary of State says, of course, it's beautiful. I wish it were. Apparently, the Secretary of State hasn't fully calculated the 1.15 billion. Perhaps we can agree that she will look at that again and then show us that the regulatory pressure has not only been reduced qualitatively, but also in some way quantitatively. Because I do not think that SMEs will benefit as much as they will improve their quality, but they will save 1.15 billion a year in quantity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u300	I think your agenda is about to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u301	November 18th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u302	On November 18th, an AO is scheduled on control pressure. Then Mr. Van Haga can go free. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at digitization. There's a lot to say about that. In general, I would like to refer at least to the Dutch Digitisation Strategy which fellow State Secretary of BZK, the Minister of Justice and Security and my person sent to the Chamber on behalf of the Cabinet. That is a rolling agenda, in which we look at each time whether it is up-to-date or deserves to be adjusted. For EZK, for me, the focus over the coming period is on scaling up, stimulating, well embedding data sharing, ensuring that the excellent digital infrastructure that we have is perpetuated, making digital connectivity even better by auctioning frequencies, for example, cyberware and investing in key technologies such as artificial intelligence. The development of AI has a special role to play. It's always a bit of searching, because AI stands for Artificial Intelligence, but in the Netherlands you say "artificial intelligence." For convenience, let's keep the international abbreviation: AI. Last year, the Strategic Action Plan for AI (SAPAI) saw the light of day. Of course, you will also find the attention for AI in the growth letter, which is ultimately also the foundation of the Growth Fund. This is about economic opportunities, about prosperity and well-being in every sector. We have to participate on the world stage, and we can. As I said, we have an excellent starting point for this, for example in the field of quantum technology. The prominent position of the Netherlands in the field of quantum technology is recognised and recognised worldwide. Here too, as I said, there is yet another cooperation between large companies, small companies and scientists. These are pioneers in the development of quantum internet and quantum algorithms and act as a magnet for global business investment and talent that wants to come here. The prophecy is yes, the billions are going to blow your mind that over the next twenty years this will grow to over 65 billion US dollars and that the market will be around 300 billion dollars worldwide in 2050. There are days when I don't have it in my pocket. This leads to many jobs. Research shows that by 2023, quantum will create 2,000 jobs for us as a country. But I would like to emphasise that there are 500 mbo-jobs. This is not only good for those who are highly educated, but also for those who have some practical training in the MBO. The National Agenda Quantum Technology ensures that we can stay ahead in the Netherlands and reap the benefits of it. So this is really being done very much in cooperation with all the actors mentioned. Finally, it is also good to mention that through the Digital Trust Center we are also trying to ensure that cybersecurity is not only given the attention that the subject deserves, but also to small businesses. Mr. Chairman. Then there is competition and consumer policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u303	But there are still questions about this. Mr Van der Lee or Mr Verhoeven. First Mr Verhoeven? Fine, I don't care. You gave each other priority, I saw. Chick the fiddle. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u304	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u305	I said fancy the fiddle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u306	Ah, okay. I have here answered the questions I asked about the tech companies by the Cabinet. I'm pleased with the answer. I am also pleased with the commitment of the cabinet, but I have a fundamental question about the first sentence: 'I agree with Mr Verhoeven that we must limit the disadvantages of the power of techreuzes'. I have argued in recent years that we must go beyond limiting the disadvantages, i.e. combating the symptoms, such as underpayment of staff, paying little to the copyright of small makers, violating privacy, pushing away competitors, avoiding tax and so on. I believe that we should tackle the power of the tech nical, regardless of the disadvantages. I think that the power of the technologists is a fundamental problem. Apart from the fact that there are disadvantages and benefits, it is a fundamental problem that these companies have become so powerful that they can afford so much. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if she agrees with me that it is not just about the disadvantages of power, but about the power itself, so a somewhat fundamental discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u307	Big isn't intrinsically wrong. When's it gonna go wrong? That is precisely what happens when the disadvantages of this action intervene precisely in the points mentioned by Mr Verhoeven. That is exactly what we are talking about, but that would be discussed in the next block: why we are taking the steps we are taking in competition policy. We are quite successful in this as the Netherlands. We have put forward proposals to intervene in competition surveillance. This is often the case after the event when a dominant position is established. But we also want to be able to intervene in the competitive disadvantages, namely as a small company completely handed over to Amazon's gatekeepers platform, where it can no longer sell its equipment on fair terms. That is one of the measures we have proposed. The European Commission is now adopting parts of our proposal, for example buying up small competitors. Facebook bought up WhatsApp. That wasn't a cock crow. Well, that's certainly what cocks crowded at, but in competition surveillance it didn't matter because the value of data is not part of the thresholds. How do you say that again? The assessment criteria, the thresholds. It wasn't part of the thresholds. I think you're gonna have to do the same. So that is exactly how we are operating in the field of competition. This also applies to the disadvantages with regard to the position of employees on large platforms. It is a thorn in my eye that young people ride uninsured, unprotected and underpaid through cities. You're gonna have to take that. That's what we're looking at in the cabinet right now to see what the right way to do that is. We agree that this must be done, but how do you do it wisely? I refer to the Digital Services Act, the follow-up to the e-Commerce Directive and the rolling suitcase terror in our cities. It's quiet for a while now, but I haven't forgotten the time we had discussions about how the cement in neighborhoods is slowly disappearing and no one can buy an affordable house because they are rented to tourists for a lot of money. You're gonna have to step in there, too, and that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u308	If we had had this discussion ten years ago, I would probably have said: those companies add a lot, they offer great opportunities, they bring people closer together, they unlock the world and you name it all. They still do, so I'm not against those companies either. I'm not against big companies in general either. But if we look at what has happened in recent years in the area of income and distribution, which I was talking about with the Minister, then perhaps the big tech companies are the archetype of a poor distribution system and a poor earning system. Those companies make money by, if you say it very briefly, polarizing, by pumping messages and content around their sites in a way that allows people to linger for as long as possible and to sell as many targeted ads as possible. I'm not talking about this from Sunday to Lubach from two weeks ago, because I've known this for years. I am an optimistic and positive person and I see the benefits of digitisation and of those companies, but there is still a lot going wrong. I know that the Secretary of State has an eye for it, and I know that the Secretary of State is also writing this about a number of initiatives on different dimensions of these tech cherishes, including in Europe. I know she talks about it a lot, but I still want her to put a tooth on it on behalf of the Netherlands within the European Union. Because I also hear noises that Member States sometimes say: 'We have to be careful. Protect the national interest, protect it and protect it." Then they'll start thinking again in the old form. So does the Secretary of State really want to keep pressing on this point? Because I really think it goes fundamentally wrong if the Netherlands does not show that we are a frontrunner in tackling that power, with the aim of combating the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u309	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u310	I'm really making a call in my last interruption and so on, because I really think this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u311	Mr Verhoeven does not have to explain it to me or convince me of the need to intervene. I very much appreciate Mr Verhoeven's input, as I have heard him as Secretary of State on this dossier over the past three years. I am also working on this on behalf of the cabinet. A little tooth on top of it... That will probably be Mr Van der Lee's question, namely the ultimate break-up of these big companies. I would like to say to Mr Verhoeven that if he thinks that more needs to be done than just that step, I am glad to hear it. As far as that step is concerned, that is possible in the end. I think that is what Mr Van der Lee stands for. That's possible in the end. In the end, you can do that, but you have to realize one thing: if things are moving fast in the development of companies, then that is in the digital economy. I don't know exactly which one of you said that, I think it was Mr. Van der Lee, but even in the corona crisis they were still able to grow 20%. In the end, you must also want to be willing to have that discussion. I am prepared to do that, by the way, but I would like to say two things. One. If you cut them up, the companies that then emerge will grow rapidly again in the digital economy. That is, I think, also why you need to do something about data: to share data and make it available. So ultimately make it available as an obligation. Well, that's the vision of data sharing that you've had. Second. A decision to cut up businesses? Well, I think the Dutch order of lawyers is going through the roof right now, because those are nice procedures that can take years. Then the question is whether you ultimately achieve what you want to achieve, namely the breaking of power that is not used for good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u312	Thanks for the answer. Also because it is probably the last budget for Mr Verhoeven, even though you never know how long the world will go on politically for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u313	This is a very scary sentence, but he went all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u314	I shall return to the written reply and to what the Secretary of State has just said. She says: I'm sure I'll tell you that breaking up platforms doesn't guarantee a solution. Now I didn't ask for a guarantee, but okay. Furthermore, she says that one of the parts of the refurbished platform can quickly become a big company again. Yes, of course it is. As a teenager, when I learned about the economy through the book of Heertje, it was about monopolies and oligopolies. I'm not against big either, but big oil and big pharma have really caused problems. And the same goes for the frightening five. It requires a permanent struggle, and therefore also the ultimate means of breaking open. Of course, this can lead to new companies and a new concentration of power, but then the government has to intervene again. Honestly, therefore, this comment does not appeal to me. It is up to the government to fight this fight all the time. I hope she will make that clear today. Because you can't afford that market power to be so concentrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u315	Your question is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u316	I think we agree on this. In the end, that should be the last option on the table. I, together with Cédric O, the State Secretary for digitisation, called "numérique" in France, I believe I have made a position paper that has been very positively received. In it this is referred to as an ultimum remedium. But for the very reason that I just mentioned, I think it would be bad policy to bet on that alone. 'Cause it's procedure stuff. You've been going on for years. I'd rather deal with them in advance on all the other subjects I just mentioned. Given the time, I won't repeat it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u317	There is another question for you from Mr Wiersma. Go ahead, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u318	Yes, Mr President, a very short question, because it is actually about this. "I'm not going to repeat it," but I think the point is clear. The Secretary of State also writes that she is currently talking to these platforms to see if she can take action. My question is, in fact, whether the Secretary of State could share the results of these talks with the Chamber, so that we are aware of and remain aware of what is being discussed in those talks and what is coming out of them. Then she will take what is here not only to Europe, but also to this Chamber. I'd like to ask her that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u319	I'm just looking for what conversations Mr Wiersma means. It's a huge pile of paper. Maybe a page?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u320	Page 23. It says: I am currently talking to platforms to come up with effective and enforceable measures that not only benefit consumers, but also promote a level playing field. I ask her if she could also inform the Chamber about the discussions with those platforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u321	When I look at it that way, it's about consumer protection and product safety. I am talking about this with Dutch platforms, which in my opinion are doing very nicely in general. What I have discussed with them is the question of what is the way it works, so that it can also serve as inspiration for other platforms. I'm just looking for exactly what Mr Wiersma wants to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u322	Mr. Wiersma is going to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u323	It's about those platforms. That is what we would be discussing in Europe, which you also wrote that non-paper about. This question is specifically about AliExpress. You write that you are in conversation with these platforms. I would like to receive the outcome of those talks in the Chamber. Then we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u324	The tricky thing about this is this. If I have to send reports of all conversations with companies to the Chamber, I think we're gonna be pumping paper around. You shouldn't want that. What it is about is: where does it lead in the end? It would be very helpful if Mr Wiersma could put some questions on paper. What exactly is he looking for and what does he want to know? Otherwise, it's kind of hard for me to figure out what he's looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u325	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u326	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. Then I have already had part of my speech. So I think Mr Wiersma was talking about consumer protection, product safety and the level playing field. There are great advantages. A lot of citizens like to order their stuff online, especially at this time. I just want to say, look at your local entrepreneur. They also have more and more websites and want to deliver at home to have our local economy even after covid is gone or fought. Especially where it comes from faraway countries, things still go wrong. There is a lot being done to ensure that this is done fairly. Mr Wiersma is right to say that import duties do not have to be paid if the intrinsic value of a consignment is not more than €150 and goods are sent directly from a third country, i.e. outside the European Union, to someone in the European Union. That is simply part of European legislation. The reason for setting a threshold is because the levying of import duties below this amount does not outweigh the administrative burden involved. However, the level playing field with third countries has recently improved by abolishing the VAT exemption for e-commerce shipments below €22 from third countries on 1 June. Also, agreements have been made within the framework of the World Postal Union to ensure that China can no longer benefit from too low international shipping rates. But this also applies to the same thing, and I have said this to the Dutch consumer before. You also know what a reasonable price is for a particular product. If something is offered somewhere on a website far below, you may wonder if you get value for money. The level-playingfield instrument aimed at unfair competition from companies from outside the European Union with our own national or other European companies is also being addressed, through a proposal to the European Commission, which, moreover, the European Commission has welcomed. In the first half of the coming year, they will come forward with concrete proposals. I say to Mr Verhoeven: here too, as the Netherlands, we are successful in the European Union, and we are playing a leading role. Finally, public procurement in the Netherlands. Seventy-three billion no less. Here too you can really drive the economy in a sustainable way. To further encourage this, the Ministry of EZK supports existing initiatives next year, which improve cooperation between sustainable parties in procurement practice. Together with the SME Netherlands and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the follow-up programme for Better Contracting Parties has been drawn up. I think it is very positive that both parties have taken the gauntlet in a very positive way to take good steps in the procurement practice, which is so important for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's gonna take some extras. That is what Mr Palland's amendment is looking at. That's what I can give you, Chamber. Finally, Mr President, the distribution of EU funds. A number of members of the Chamber have expressly called for this to be addressed, namely by Mr Bruins, Mrs Mulder and Mr Moorlag. Although final agreements remain to be made on the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Netherlands will receive a national ERDF budget of 506 million for the next period. This is as agreed in the agreement on the MFF of July, 80% of the ERDF envelopes from the previous period. That is actually the current period, 2014-2020. It is up to the Member States themselves to distribute these funds among their own territories. In the Netherlands there are four. I am going to base the distribution on European criteria. In concrete terms, this means applying the same key used by the European Commission for calculating national ERDF budgets through the Berlin criteria. There are five: gross domestic product per capita, unemployment rates, education, CO emissions and migration. This will automatically take into account the provinces which the European Commission has given the status of transition region. I say this to Mrs Mulder, who has made a warm plea for this. Besides the ERDF, there is also the JTF, the Just Transition Fund. This was also mentioned by the mentioned MPs. The aim of this fund is to mitigate the socio-economic adverse effects of climate transitions in the regions most affected. This means that we can help the most affected regions, which are still economically dependent on fossil fuel or heavy industry, on the road to a sustainable economy. The cabinet is in the process of establishing which are in the Netherlands on the basis of objective criteria. That is precisely what we are doing to prevent what has happened before in history, namely that regions with problems are overlooked. That's what happened to Groningen. I want to do this very closely now, not to make the same mistake with other regions where there are major problems. It is more than clear that there are serious problems in the province of Groningen. These are problems that also fit the purpose of this fund, to enable the transition that Mrs Mulder spoke about the loss of jobs, but Mr Moorlag can also deal with them. I have to do this together with my colleague from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. Of course, Mr Wiebes is also explicitly listening from the hydrogen call. "Exactly" I hear him again next to me. I can feel the hot breath of him in my neck. But like I said before, I didn't fall out so scared, so that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u327	There's a question for you... let's see if you'll shudder after that from Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u328	Do you want me to finish it first? Following this analysis, which has been well received, we are obviously going to discuss with the regions the use of the JTF funds, but also the ERDF funds, REACT-EU and ESF, such as where we are going to put the substantive focus and how we can properly dispose of the money so that everyone can finally come back home, or as I always call it, before the stalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u329	Thank you to the Secretary of State and thank you for her written reply. She says that the transition regions in the calculation receive more resources than the other provinces, which have the status "more developed region." I appreciate the Secretary of State's honoring that position. Unfortunately, we see that special position, because it is not an advantage if you have that position, so please return to the final distribution. Thank you also for spending most of the JTF resources in accordance with the motion I tabled with Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Bruins, for the summer. That's how I hear it. So there is still a considerable amount left for the other regions. They'll go in front of the crane, if I understand the Secretary of State. As far as the CDA is concerned, regions cannot be completely excluded. It can't be that someone finds a completely empty crane. Does the Secretary of State want to take a look at that, too? The majority of the funds go to the north of the Netherlands because of the 20,000 jobs. I also say this to the chairman: 20,000 jobs in the North of the Netherlands, of which 7,000 are in Drenthe and the rest are in Groningen. That's what's going on with us. So I think it is justified that most of the funds go that way. Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u330	I agree with Mrs Mulder. I am in the process of laying a puzzle, in which everyone can deal with the major issues that exist in all these different regions in a good way, of course, within the budgets that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u331	I pointed out in my first term that when the North Netherlands joined the crane, very often nothing was served. This was the case with regional economic policy in the past. It all had to go to the mainports and the brainports. Then it was said: well, you are not one of them. Now Groningen is considered a target area, or a target area. That is a bit like the sprinkles will be scattered all over the Netherlands. That can't be the intention of the Just Transition Fund. That is precisely what is meant for those regions where disruptive changes are taking place. You can also see that the European Commission says about the Netherlands as it were: there are several energy clusters, but there is one target area. I find it impossible for the CDA to say in fact that most of the funds should go there. This means, at the end of the day, that 49% of the funds for the target area will be cancelled. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u332	I am just looking for the contradiction that Mr Moorlag is putting down here. The English text of the JTF regulation states: "to provide support to territories facing serious socioeconomic challenges driving from the transition process towards a climate neutral economy of the Union by 2050." That's the assignment I've got. I'm not doing anything about sprinkles of money across the Netherlands. I'm in the middle of an analysis. What are the areas facing serious socio-economic challenges as a result of the transition process towards a climate-neutral economy? That's a secure substantive process, and I'm going to back up where they are. I think we're all gonna end up the same here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u333	No, I don't think so. We spoke to the Commissioner. It has said that it is a question of concentrating money in those areas where there are disruptive developments. Think, for example, of the mining areas in Poland where coal is being extracted, which is being phased out. Think of Groningen, for example, where the natural gas is phased out. There is a historical injustice in the North of the Netherlands. During the period of the Economic Structure Strengthening Fund, of the billions filled with natural gas revenues, 1% went to the north of the Netherlands. Three northern provinces had 1% of that. And now there's specific money for a target area, and that's Groningen. Look at the documents, my advice to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State, on Mrs Mulder's proposal, says that in principle a maximum of 49% can be spent outside that target area. That's not what I want to do. I feel that Groningen, Northern Netherlands, is once again being wronged. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she wants to remove that injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u334	I listen to emotion in Mr Moorlag's words. I get that when you look at the history of the North Netherlands. At the same time, I note that the FES funds were about infrastructure works, the 1% that Mr Moorlag is talking about. Nevertheless, I fully agree with him that this is very little. But that was 14 or 15 years ago; I can't reverse that. What I and the entire cabinet are doing right now is taking a good look at the task in Groningen. Is that all flawless? No. The Chamber has also discussed this on a number of occasions. But there are arrangements now. The administrative agreement of Groningen, which I believe is worth 1.2 billion. The Secretary of State is working on that. I now have a number of funds under my care which I have to distribute correctly, in accordance with the recommendations and opinions of the European Commission, across the Netherlands. I think it is a good thing that you are waiting, I say to Mr Moorlag, to see what the agreements I make with all parts of the country are now. We have four of them; the twelve provinces are in them. I am working on a very secure process, in which I am absolutely motivated to ensure that Groningen, the North Netherlands too, what it is, of course, not only Groningen, also Assen in the province of Drenthe, just as Mrs Mulder says that it is right to let those funds be spent. But what I can't do is transfer the entire budget to Groningen. I can't do that. Somewhere in between, I'm gonna have to make a proper assessment, in conversation with the landslides. I'm fine with communicating the outcome with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u335	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u336	In conclusion, Mr President, two points. 1% of the Fund for Economic Structure Strengthening has arrived in the North of the Netherlands. In the past North Netherlands was always excluded in economic policy, because the money has to go to the mainports, the brainports and the greenports. Peaks in the Delta, Groningen was ruled out. Now something of European money is being included in the policy, earmarked for Groningen. But it just flows away. That is just another historical injustice that is being done to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u337	However, I would ask Mr Moorlag to look closely at the recommendations made by the European Commission. I just quoted that. He does have special attention for Groningen, North Netherlands, and rightly so. 'And rightly', I say, because I am extremely motivated to ensure that there too the challenges can be tackled in a good way. That puzzle I have to lay with the various funds that fall under my responsibility. I do this together with colleagues in the cabinet, specifically the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and my colleague for Economic Affairs, Mr Wiebes. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Covid, corona, has really turned the Dutch economy upside down. The effects on our economy and therefore on employment, prosperity and well-being are not easy. As a cabinet, we have tried to do a lot of things about this. That has been debated this week. The Economic Affairs budget is, for the most part, primarily about the future. How do we ensure, by using innovation, digitisation, good-looking heads and golden hands, that there will eventually be a future for the same economy and for our children? I'm glad to be able to contribute to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u338	Thank you. I still see Mr Moorlag. He's allowed to ask one more question and then he's through his interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u339	In the first period, I drew attention to the labour market problems, particularly in the technical, process and chemical sectors. This was also addressed in the written reply. The minister said we should look at the task in 2040. But we must also make sure that the problems that have been going on here and now, and which have been dragging on for a decade, are solved thoroughly. My question to the Secretary of State is: is she prepared to conclude agreements with the process industry and the engineering sector in order to eliminate these structural deficits? I told you, we've been talking about this for at least ten years. Mr Verhoeven must also have seen this problem come across many times in his ten years. There are structural obstacles in these sectors. For example, there are virtually no women working. In other sectors, we have managed to break through that. Look at the prison system and look at public transport. As a trade unionist, I've been working for that in the past. But this is still not the case in these sectors. In other sectors, such as medicine and the judiciary, men's professions and women's professions have become mixed professions. That breakthrough needs to be made here. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she wishes to commit herself to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u340	Absolutely. That's what I've been doing over the years. The next year's budget also contains more than enough money for this. That's not the point. I think this is mainly a social debate. You could sometimes call the engineering sector almost the last bastion of men. And that's because, strangely enough, it's socially in our ears that that job is that men have to do. It's a mystery to me why. I'm the one hanging the lights at home, to call it a cross street. But you can also see it in technical training at VMBO: they are mostly boys. It's just a shame forever. I would like to say two things about this: we need the women there very badly and the idea that it is dirty work has long since ceased to exist. The latter concerns another social reality, in which many fathers and mothers of young children think it is dirty work. We really need to take steps in this. For example, I have recently spoken to mainly digital companies, large and small. Because also in business cultures there are a number of automations and assumptions that have to be changed, the language and the old-boy-krentenbread network to name but a few. I've made agreements with these companies about how we can handle this. It's possible. There are companies where it just happens and where it is effective. It's really necessary, and not just to make sure you're trained for a job in which there's work. Perhaps we should set a ceiling on the amount of VMBO education and administration and economics together. Anyway, I'm not about that; I'm not the relevant minister. But we also need to realise that if those vacancies are not filled, we are not going to achieve the economic growth that we need so that we can pay for all the other things that we think are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u341	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I should like to make it quite clear that the amendment to item No. 11 Judgment Room has received? In the first period, the cabinet has therefore provided an appreciation for the three amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u342	The next item is the second term of office. I would like to give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV. He continues the budget Economic Affairs and Climate including the National Growth Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u343	Thank you, Madam President. Bless you all. I'm going to read some motions first, if you'll allow me. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions, even though not all the questions have been answered, but they will. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to urgently examine which companies and industries are still unjustly excluded from the various emergency packages and to compensate them as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to establish a single national database allowing municipalities and other potential sponsors to consult company screening results so that they do not always have to meet these administrative burdens themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and Entrepreneurship Organisations such as the Netherlands-SME, to engage in discussions on short-term possibilities leading to noticeable regulatory pressures for entrepreneurs and to assist small and medium-sized enterprises, possibly even to sustain them, during this serious corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-13]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-14]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Graus, Mr Stoffer, Mr Aartsen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u344	Mr Van Haga is an old commando. I'm always proud when it's under my motion. Mr Amhaouch is my friend in Limburg. In Limburg, he is called "Ammehous." Now comes a motion for which I am very proud and for which I am unanimously grateful to Members. Here comes a unanimously signed motion. I suspect there has never been so many names under a motion. That's not the point. It is a common interest, our national interest and also, for the Limburg MPs, our province. We can't deny that. The next motion has been co-signed by my Limburg friend Amhaouch, member Stoffer of the men's brothers, command Van Haga, Limburg friend Öztürk, Moorlag of the PvdA, Baudet, member Verhoeven, "de Futs," Mr Futselaar, I always call him "de Futs" member Van Otterloo, the honourable Member Van der Lee, member Wiersma, Bruins of the Christian Union, Wassenberg of the Party for Animals, Krol, Van Kooten-Arissen and Wilders. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the social and financial and economic importance of VDL Nedcar for the Netherlands, Limburg in particular, including the security of existence of thousands of workers and their families;]] [[invites the government to assist with VDL Nedcar, the province of Limburg, municipalities involved, knowledge and education institutions with an integral plan for the further development of VDL Nedcar in Born and to make it future-proof, paying attention to the national possibilities of (co) financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Graus, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Haga, Mr Öztürk, Mr Moorlag, Mr Baudet, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Futselaar, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Wiersma, Mr Bruins, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u345	I almost feel left out. The signature already shows that the motion is sufficiently supported. It is therefore part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u346	As a Limburg MP, I am very happy, also for my province, for the people. I want to thank everyone. I'm sure I can do that on behalf of the entire VDL, all the employees, the board, but also the delegates and the governor. Everyone will be grateful. I'm very proud of it. I'm quite moved by it, too. I want to thank you all. I've used some big words, that MPs don't work together very well. Now they have shown that it can be for a common interest. I want to end up with my Limburg's mouth cap anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u347	That's it. I want one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u348	I already promised it to the President of the Chamber, to Mrs Arib, but she wants it with my sweat, my bacteria and my enzymes in it, because it'll be worth more. So I'll wear it for a few days and then he'll go to Mrs. Arib. A blessed evening. Thank you all again, on behalf of the province of Limburg and all Limburgers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u349	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops from the PVV. I was just about to say, now comes part two of this cabaret. It was pretty, though. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u350	Thank you, Mr President. It seemed too good to be true when the Minister said very toughly: we have to get rid of biomass in the long term, we are going to end those subsidies and there will be a so-called phasing-out path. But the grant decisions themselves are not withdrawn. This means, in concrete terms, that in the coming years too, many billions of biomass will still be subsidised and power stations will simply be built up. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop all subsidies for biomass immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u351	Mr. Chairman. Then energy poverty. It really is a fact in the Netherlands: people who literally turn off the stove, for fear of towering energy bills. That's very bad. It is so painful that the Minister is so laconically and so easy about it: well, it's all not that bad with the increase in the energy bill. That's incredibly painful for all those people who are really in deep shit. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 650,000 households are barely or no longer able to pay the energy bill;]] [[Considering that, as a result of the energy and climate transition, this number will increase further to 1.5 million households by 2030;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce energy costs and eliminate energy poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u352	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have the next motion. You could actually say it's some kind of overarching motion, perhaps the most important one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop any form of climate policy immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u353	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u354	Thank you, then I will continue to Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u355	Thank you, Mr President. The coronavirus makes the future uncertain and the uncertainty great for everyone. We have already discussed the aid packages in detail, but now we are talking about the rest and what else is needed. I would like to thank the cabinet, but above all all all those officials behind them. They usually work very hard on these days, but this time it's actually even harder working, sometimes even from home, on top of all the work they've been doing all these months. Many thanks to them for that. I hope that the rulers will be able to pass that on to them. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions and then a few final words, but not until I have thanked the directors for the commitments that have been made. They involved taking and looking at growth in legislative proposals, looking at the medium-term strategy, the investment fund, the struggles in innovation and even more closely at how we can help entrepreneurs. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both research carried out by the Lower House itself and research carried out by SMEs in the Netherlands show that the administrative burden on SMEs continues to increase;]] [[whereas there are often many rules for entrepreneurs, but too few rules apply;]] [[Whereas there has been good experience of the one-in-one-out system in several European countries;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of the "one in, one out" system as a new approach to counter regulatory pressure on entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last year the Cabinet presented the long-term growth strategy for the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is important that this growth strategy should be followed up and developed in concrete policy proposals so that these policy proposals can contribute to the growth capacity of the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a sound list of official options for promising growth policies for the six pillars of the growth strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to include additional policy options for further promotion of start-ups and scale-ups;]] [[calls on the Government to send these options for formation to the Chamber so that they can be associated with the formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas access to finance for start-up and scale-ups is essential;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to set up a fund for knowledge-intensive start-ups and scale-ups with a view to an attractive investment environment;]] [[Whereas the development of new technologies such as quantum, nano or photonic technology often takes place in regional networks of universities, companies and investors;]] [[Calls on the Government to take this fund into account and to focus on the importance of strategic investments in high-quality Dutch technology companies, so that these companies do not disappear from the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to make use of the expertise of regional fund managers such as the ROMs in the development of this fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma, Mr Aartsen and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-20]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u356	Mr President, the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the additional mandate of BuHa-OS to the NFIA for work on Brexit was to expire at 1 million;]] [[Whereas, in view of the imminent end of the transitional year and a possible hard Brexit, these activities remain important for cashing opportunities;]] [[Whereas the impact of corona makes the work of the NFIA to attract companies and associated employment for the Netherlands even more important;]] [[Calls on the Government to maintain the NFIA's commitment to Brexit for the time being and to examine whether the NFIA is sufficiently equipped to meet these challenges and to inform the Court of Justice of this by mid 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u357	Mr President, thank you. Those were the motions. Every year, of course, the question is how we stand next year. This year is actually an even more important and interesting question. I hope and wish all those entrepreneurs, all those companies and all those people who work so hard, strength, and I hope that we can continue to support them so well at this difficult time. Mr. Chairman. It is also Mr Verhoeven's last meeting. But I do not have the illusion that he would not be there next year, because he will undoubtedly be there as a lobbyist for the technology or digitization industry. He'll find his way, but I'm glad I got a motion with him today. Thanks to him. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u358	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Harbers, who also speaks on behalf of the VVD Group, after our messenger service has cleaned everything up hygienically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u359	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers, in this case in the field of energy and climate. In the first term, I went into all the enthusiasm about hydrogen. I did not raise any questions, but I should like to make a comment on this in connection with the debate and the Minister's speech. Hydrogen is very much needed. In fact, there is no other alternative for many large-scale applications in industry. And we have that fantastic starting position! For example, we need to be clear about where this hydrogen backbone is going to be and where all these connections are going to be. But the Minister was right to say that it is a carrier and a storage medium of energy and not a source of energy. So we must also be realistic about this in the future. Hydrogen, for example, should not be transformed endlessly. I saw an argument the other day: now we are going to convert all the gas plants so that they are suitable for hydrogen. So there are conversion losses, the loss of energy. As far as I am concerned, therefore, you should not first use windmills to generate electricity to make it hydrogen, so that that hydrogen can finally be devoid of electricity in a gas plant. Of course, that way you can stay busy. I predict that we will have the same discussion as we are now about biomass if we do so for a number of decades: how realistic is that actually all of this? In the case of hydrogen, there is something else, namely that we are far from being able to meet our needs. A study by DRIFT from Erasmus University this summer showed that at best you can meet a third of your own needs. So here's another argument for a few nuclear power plants! Then we have extra power that we can turn into hydrogen. This will be orange hydrogen: 0% CO and 100% Dutch. Mr. Chairman. Today I was mainly concerned with the industrial perspective that the CO levy must pay. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments he made last Monday and today. I'm really gonna call on him to start that playbook leaking fast. Get those companies right around the table and see how the 125 million can be put to good use so that we don't lose jobs and investments. Also provide quick clarity about the infrastructure. Soon Mrs Mulder will table another motion, which I have signed with her in that regard. There really needs to be another tooth in terms of process efficiency, because that is the only thing they can think about for a large number of companies. This is also true of the case in writing, but not orally today for the indirect cost compensation ETS. It also has major budgetary implications, rising to tens of millions for some companies. That is also a lot of jobs and that is also a lot of jobs, often also clean jobs that you do not want to lose in the Netherlands. There, too, I say: Minister, brace yourself and seek timely contact with those companies that really need that clarity. Finally, my final question. In examining the SodM which I asked for for for geothermal energy, the Minister in his written reply did not deal with the involvement of the situation in Germany. That is literally a few kilometers from the projects that have been killed in the Netherlands. In Germany they can work under similar conditions. If we are to give geothermal energy a chance, this research must also involve that insight. I'm just a few seconds past the time, so I'm gonna drop my final word. But the speech about prosperity was taken from my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u360	Thank you. You're not gonna get into a fight with me, you're gonna get into a fight with your other colleagues, because it's their time you're gonna get into it. I shall give the floor to Mr Van der Lee, after all has been cleaned up properly. Mr. Van der Lee speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the directors for their reply and to the staff for their hard work, which was the basis for that. I look forward to the debate on the long-term investment fund of 20 billion, and also to the appreciation of the amendment I tabled on the guarantee. But we'll do it at another time. I would now like to focus on the need to come up with additional policies, both because of the judgment of the Court on Urgenda and the Climate Act. I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Urgenda target is unlikely to be reached, and certainly not in a stable manner;]] [[noting that the 2030 climate target is not yet in sight;]] [[Whereas the Council of State stresses the need to propose additional measures;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an additional climate policy package for both the Urgenda target and the 2030 climate target by February 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u362	I would like to say that the timing in that motion was deliberately chosen so that the Laura of Spirit Committee would have done all its work. Then it can just be on the cabinet board and they can make a nice selection and present it to us, before 1 February. Then I'll go to my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the motion adopted by Mr Mulder and Mr Van der Lee (32813), 412) a legislative programme has been provided to the Climate Action Note;]] [[Whereas, according to the Council of State, this legislative programme also requires much better consideration of the coherence and the necessary orderliness of necessary legislative and regulatory steps;]] [[Whereas the motion tabled by Mr Mulder and Mr Van der Lee has already been called for;]] [[Calls on the Government to take into account the recommendations of the Council of State for an improved legislative programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u363	Then I would like to thank you and my fellow Members for a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u364	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister and the Secretary of State for replying. Let me read my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the opinion of the Task Force for Infrastructure Climate Agreement Industry (TIKI) makes it clear that investments are needed in our energy infrastructure to enable industry to switch to electricity, hydrogen and CO capture and storage, among other things;]] [[noting that our companies are in a positive position to use this infrastructure;]] [[Whereas the investments currently being made in this energy infrastructure should also fit into the picture towards 2050;]] [[noting that the government is right to say that we should now start investing before 2030 and at the same time investing in realising the plans for 2050;]] [[noting that no specific measures have yet been identified and implemented in a response from the Cabinet to the TICI;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the parties involved in the TIKl Opinion and the Cluster Energy Strategies (CES), to identify the no-regret measures for investing in energy infrastructure for industry and to submit them to the Chamber this spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u366	The letter on the TICI has produced many additional abbreviations, Mr President. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for the clarity of the funds. That's good for us. We will, of course, watch the performance, which also comes to the Chamber, with each other here. And we'll find some of that, I suppose. Then I am also very pleased with the 'judgement chamber' for the amendment tabled by Mr Sienot and myself and, fortunately, many others on the money for energy cooperatives. I hope they just need all the money, coming year, so there won't be a penny back. So I call on all the energy cooperatives to join us and go to the tub with sun on the roof. Good thing the Minister shares with the CDA that hydrogen is so important, especially for the long term that we see before us and future generations. It is important that it is also clear to those who will eventually be on the committee who are going to judge that there is such broad support for this. Even if it is only a carrier, it is an important carrier for our future policy. I had prepared a motion for that, but I may be submitting it to the debate on the Growth Fund itself, because that is not appropriate here. I would therefore like to thank everyone, including my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u367	Thank you, too. I shall then give the floor to Mr Amhaouch, including the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u368	There's gonna be one more minute, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the two heads of government, the Minister and the Secretary of State, for the response and the vision of 2040, but also for the attention of the Secretary of State for the financing of smaller SMEs. That is very important, especially in this crisis. Thank you also for the "Court of Justice" for the amendment on procurement. Mr. Chairman. I'll file a few motions first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a fair economy cannot be without a sound, broad financial sector in which each institution, big or small, must be able to do what it is best at;]] [[Whereas access to finance for entrepreneurs is essential in order to undertake and cope with the current corona crisis;]] [[Considering that, both before and during the corona crisis, large system banks have been able to grant relatively small credit applications up to €250,000, such as through the KKC scheme, but to a limited extent, inter alia because the cost of credit is higher than the credit itself or a banking relationship is lacking;]] [[noting that recent CPB research has shown that a more diverse SME financing landscape with sufficient competition and choice for SMEs is needed to be less vulnerable and to provide SMEs with optimal funding opportunities;]] [[whereas the Chamber in 2019 the motion-Pieter Heerma c.s. on the Volksbank (Room 35300, No. 14);]] [[calls on the government to improve lending to SMEs and small family businesses, at low administrative costs and organised in the region, by:]] [[accelerate the establishment of a fund for alternative financiers;]] [[explore other opportunities to further stimulate a diverse SME financing landscape;]] [[examine whether an SME bank fits in and how it could be developed;]] [[Calls on the Government to involve Qredits and other relevant parties and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 April 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Bruins and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u369	Why April 1st? Is that some kind of April 1 joke? Then the room's already gone. Why April 1st? The second is that we have been having this discussion for three years and now you are coming up with such a proposal. At the end of the ride you will come up with such a proposal. Then I think: why have we had this discussion all these years to help improve lending?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u370	This is a repeat of moves. I think the last steps have been taken. Alternative financiers have come. We have supported Qredits much better. We have better support for the ROMs. We tabled two amendments last year. And then you want to take the next step. If you take this investigation seriously, you'll take your time. We are already in November, with the budgetary discussions. Let's get the work done properly. We are genuinely looking for an alternative way to provide small SMEs in the region. I hope that we can all make a breakthrough here, so that we let the system banks do their job in that larger area and let the SME bank or something like that finance the smaller SMEs. I think Mr Öztürk can only be pleased that we are all heading in that direction and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u371	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u372	...that he's going through that in this cabinet period. Then he left good work with his colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u373	Thank you. Any short questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u374	Yes. For three years, we have indicated that the system banks do not want to help small businesses. That has finally been recognised, and I am pleased about that. Only, we have denied the alternative for a long time, and that is why many small entrepreneurs have not received any loans. That was my point. Now, at the end of the ride, you will come forward with an investigation. We will see what that research will show, but the most important thing is that you should have the guts to say: we should have been harder on the big banks in the last three years to help small businesses. You didn't, but you should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u375	I am sincerely pleased that Mr Öztürk is also pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u376	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u377	Then I'll move on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the long-term growth strategy for the Netherlands aims to raise the earning capacity of the whole of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas we need the strength of all regions to do this and there are wide opportunities for growth in all regions;]] [[points out that it is important that regional diversification and regional development are part of the Dutch growth strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Bruins, Mr Moorlag, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Stoffer, Mr Öztürk, Mr Wiersma and Mr Van Otterloo.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u378	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands about 70% of all companies are family businesses, employing 2.2 million people;]] [[noting that long-term continuity and the transfer of the business to the next generation are central to family businesses;]] [[Whereas the succession scheme is important and should be maintained for family businesses;]] [[Whereas there are also other instruments that can contribute to a smooth transfer of business, such as increased knowledge and information collection, strengthening governance and tailor-made services for family businesses by, for example, the Tax Office or Chamber of Commerce;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the factors contributing to good business follow-up and policy options that could strengthen them, and to inform the Court of Justice in the second quarter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas this year the Invest in Holland Network, consisting of the NFIA and its regional partners such as the ROMs, has developed a new acquisition strategy for the years 2020-2025 focusing on attracting foreign companies that contribute to the innovation capacity, digitisation and sustainability of the Dutch economy;]] [[noting that reshoring of production in the manufacturing industry can contribute to innovation, sustainability and digitisation of our economy and can also contribute to the strategically autonomous position of the Netherlands;]] [[whereas the SER is investigating reshoring and intends to deliver an opinion by December 2020;]] [[calls on the Government, through the Invest in Holland Network, in consultation with the ESC, to identify the practical opportunities and challenges for the Netherlands in the field of reshoring, and to provide further information to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u379	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a broad economy and a strong manufacturing industry are of great importance for the Netherlands;]] [[noting that almost 20% of Dutch GDP is earned indirectly or directly in industry, where around 800,000 Dutch are employed;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands labour productivity is falling and ageing leads to labour shortages in the long term;]] [[Whereas process innovations in the manufacturing industry contribute to labour productivity, employment and competitiveness in all regions and thus to the future earning capacity of the Netherlands as a whole;]] [[Whereas structural investment in process innovations helps to preserve the manufacturing industry and/or bring it back to the Netherlands;]] [[noting that process innovations are currently lagging behind in many SME sectors and that, due to the corona crisis, companies have little or no investment space;]] [[calls on the Government to explore a process innovation incentive tool outside the Wbso, with access for large SMEs as a condition, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 July 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u380	Mr. Chairman. I think that yesterday and today we had a very nice debate with our colleagues. There were sincere and beautiful introductions. You can see that we are actually going to find each other on some points, for example when we talk about the manufacturing industry or about sustainability, but sometimes it is still the question whether we go to our goal via path A or path B. I think that is a very big step forward. But what we do need is a maneuverable government, a government that can move quickly. We have shown Corona this year that the Ministry can quickly switch and that the government can switch quickly, but I think we need that in the future too. We have money. There's Invest-NL, and Invest International is coming at us. We have talked about European funds and we have talked about the National Growth Fund. I think we should challenge society to come up with good plans. Mr Graus spoke about the automotive industry in the south of Limburg. I think it is very important that the cabinet gets to work on this. Yesterday was a thank-you day, as I have heard from Mr Bruins. Indeed: crop, labor, innovation. I'll keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u381	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that currently 8% of Dutch households live in energy poverty;]] [[Whereas it is assumed that the number of households struggling to pay the energy bill will increase in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government, together with the UNG, to come up with an overall plan of action to combat energy poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Stoffer, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Öztürk, Mr Kops and Mr Van Otterloo.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u383	I've tried very hard, Mr. Chairman. I've got the names of half the men here in the room under this motion. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several energy cooperatives are seriously concerned about the outcome of the Postal Code Rose Scheme;]] [[Whereas they fear that they will not be able to complete current projects or that they will be seriously delayed by new projects;]] [[Whereas energy cooperatives indicate that this is at the expense of participation, in particular, of households with lower incomes;]] [[considers that this is contrary to the policy of generating as much renewable energy as possible, making housing stock more sustainable and creating support for climate policy;]] [[calls on the Government to consult these energy cooperatives in order to find a solution to the experienced problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Öztürk and Mr Van Otterloo.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u384	I would like to explain this briefly. Of course, I wholeheartedly support the amendment tabled by the CDA and D66 colleagues, but the reports are that it is not just about the amount of money that has been made available. It is also important for the low-income groups that the payback period is important and that it is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u385	There is a question for you from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u386	I have tabled a motion for a resolution in a previous notation. In my view, this was also dealt with in the discussions on the Tax Plan. At the moment I do not know the outcome of this, but next week the discussion on the Tax Plan will continue. There is therefore already a motion by Mrs Dik-Faber and myself on the same point. Maybe Mrs. Beckerman missed that. That's what I wanted to give her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u387	Excuse me. Yeah, I missed that. In fact, I had agreed with Mr Sienot on your amendment. In doing so, I have exchanged the view that I missed this point. That is when the answer came that this might be in the hands of Finance. I did miss that a little bit and I didn't ask any more. I'm sorry about that. I'll look it up and check it out, because I think this is a problem. This wasn't a deliberate action. I've missed it, but I can check to see if that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u388	The Minister may also be able to say something about it. I submitted it in the debate with the Minister. He was going to cut it short with his colleague, so it is possible that this minister will be able to say something about this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u389	And I also just saw that the answer on the Tax Plan came in. So we can pick up our hearts tonight. Yeah, that's really delicious. Then there's my third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cabinet intends to pay almost a quarter of a billion euros for the closure of the destroyed Onyxkolencentrale;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the employees of this Onyxcentrale and in the chain are provided with a minimum of equal treatment with the coal power station Hemweg,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u390	Also with this motion a disclaimer, because it may be that it is premature. In the first period, I asked a question about this. I also received an answer to that, but in fact the Minister was only concerned with the employees of the central self. For my party, it is very important that we also ensure that this arrangement is there for people throughout the chain, including in the supply chain. The Minister came back to that, but in order not to miss the moment of motion submission, I have already submitted it. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several studies show that the potential of sun on roof can provide half to more electricity demand from households;]] [[noting that less than 5% of the roofs have solar panels;]] [[noting that climate targets are not being met;]] [[calls on the government to consider how the full potential of solar panels on all roofs can be realised during the coming cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Öztürk and Mr Van Otterloo.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u391	Then the very last one. It's part of the already dissuaded amendment, but well, I never give up hope. That's what you're laughing at, but I'm definitely not gonna do that! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proceeds of the ODE scheme through the SDE grants are mainly for the benefit of large companies;]] [[whereas households contribute significantly to this scheme but hardly benefit from the revenues;]] [[Whereas the possibility of subsidies for households to make their homes more sustainable is limited and requires a substantial investment of their own;]] [[believes that households should feel not only the burden but also the desire for climate policy;]] [[Considers that by investing more in the sustainability of housing stock, climate targets are getting closer;]] [[calls on the government to set up a climate justice fund and, as a starting point, to pay 20% of ODE revenues for the sustainability of housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u392	I will leave it at that, because then my colleague Mr Futselaar will have extra time with the agricultural budget. He was just very excited that CDA and VVD went over their time, so I give him that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u393	Ah, that's it! Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Sienot of D66. You have three minutes left and Mr Verhoeven has one minute left. Talk fast, I'd say!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u394	Madam President. It was a nice debate. Hopefully it has become clear that D66 wants to leave behind the fossil age that David Attenborough experienced and described in his A Life on Our Planet. We want to move towards an era with a clean, fair and modern economy. First of all, I have an amendment, with broad support. We're going on a roof hunt, and I'm really happy about that. I would like to call on the municipalities, housing corporations and everyone else to get to work on that. The following is also important, Madam President. We're gonna set up a longer climate table. We're going to involve a lot more people in solving the climate challenge we have ahead of us. That's what my first motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the 2020 Climate and Energy Exploration, the target of 49% CO reduction is not reached by 2030, let alone a CO reduction target of 55%, as proposed by the European Commission;]] [[Whereas the involvement of society creates many climate opportunities, as Urgenda has shown by drawing up a package of measures with 800 organisations;]] [[having noted that the process of the independent study group "Climate Declaration Green Deal" has now begun;]] [[Calls on the Government to ask this study group to draw up proposals from all partners of the Climate Agreement contributing to 55% CO reduction by 2030;]] [[calls on the government also to draw on input from the wider society, such as residents' organisations, small and medium-sized enterprises and students, as a follow-up to the report, and to develop them into concrete measures so that they are also available in the cabinet formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u395	We also want to make it cheaper and easier to make green choices in this new, modern and clean economy. This means, however, that you must make the best possible use of the money available for the energy transition. That's what my next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas storage of renewable energy raises financial resources through the energy account to stimulate the production of renewable energy and the reduction of CO (SDE++);]] [[having noted that 680 million of the SDE++ budget was returned to the general budget in 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to spend all available SDE funds on the SDE++ targets and to report on them in each EZK budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u396	Finally, green gas, hydrogen gas; it was already a big deal about it. I have the motion for a resolution on the Netherlands, a clean gas country. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the development of green hydrogen offers economic opportunities for the Netherlands and creates green jobs;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the National Hydrogen Programme plan how it will accompany the development of green hydrogen with the necessary growth in clean energy generation in the Netherlands, so that real CO reduction is achieved, how existing gas infrastructure can be used for green hydrogen and how the opportunities for importing green hydrogen from abroad are exploited;]] [[Invites the Government to report to the Court in the first half of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u397	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to my colleague, who also says goodbye: the one and only Kees Verhoeven!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u398	Ruffle, ruffle!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u399	Mr President, I shall begin the motions quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, as a research country, is among the world's top in several areas;]] [[noting that entrepreneurship skills and investment in start-ups and scale-ups are lagging behind;]] [[Whereas many Dutch research and innovation ecosystems have difficulty finding and binding top talent and connecting different players;]] [[noting that exploiting national knowledge as a solution to global issues is both a focus and an improvement;]] [[Whereas good cooperation between the ministries of EZK and OCW is crucial;]] [[calls on the government, together with the actors in the ecosystems, to examine how ecosystems can function better with the aim of both the development and valorisation of knowledge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u400	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is crucial to focus on innovative knowledge ecosystems and to translate new areas of knowledge into economic opportunities;]] [[noting that the Dutch universities and Techleap have the ambition to make the Netherlands the best ecosystem for academic start-ups in Europe;]] [[noting that the Dutch universities have drawn up a plan for a Dutch Academic Impact Fund to resolve bottlenecks in funding and support for academic start-ups;]] [[noting that there are successful examples of university start-up funds with government involvement, such as in Germany, France and the United Kingdom;]] [[Whereas the Dutch government has several instruments to stimulate innovation;]] [[supports the ambition to be the best ecosystem for academic start-ups in Europe;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether and how a Dutch Academic Impact Fund could be integrated into one of the innovation tools, and to inform the Court thereof before summer 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u401	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say one more sentence. Much has changed and I would like to give one change to the Minister. It used to be necessary to earn so you could split up. I think it's necessary these days to split up in order to start earning again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u402	Thank you. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for their answer. Thank you to all the people who have done a lot of work behind them. I'm getting to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, by way of motion 33009, No. 87 called for, if necessary, unconventional means of innovation and sustainability of the Dutch steel industry, which involves a great deal of employment and which is of strategic importance;]] [[Whereas initiatives are being taken and there are opportunities to provide Tata Steel Netherlands in a more independent form with a good, sustainable future;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a favourable attitude towards these initiatives and to explore the possibility of forming a consortium for the creation of a more sustainable, innovative and future-proof steel company in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas unemployment is rising, but there are considerable and persistent shortages of skilled workers in the engineering and manufacturing and process industries, leaving unexploited potential for economic and employment growth;]] [[Whereas the corona restrictions make it impossible or more difficult for young people to work and complete traineeships, which could lead to a further shortage of skilled workers;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the Technics Pact, to develop, in consultation with trade unions and inter-branch organisations, a strong and coherent action programme to reduce shortages of technical and manufacturing professionals and process industries;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas responsible participation of regional development companies contributes to the creation and maintenance of SMEs and employment;]] [[calls on the Government to actively monitor whether the EUR 150 million additional investment capital made available to regional development companies is sufficient and, if necessary, to provide additional capital for responsible participation in SMEs in order to promote economic recovery from the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-42]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u404	And finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for decades, natural gas benefits have hardly been used to strengthen the economic and employment structure of the Northern Netherlands, despite the fact that employment and prosperity levels are significantly below the national average;]] [[Whereas the conversion to other energy sources has resulted in a high level of job losses in and around the province of Groningen;]] [[whereas the European Commission therefore considers Groningen to be a target area for investments from the Just Transition Fund;]] [[calls on the government to use resources from the Just Transition Fund as a priority and concentrated resource in the North of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u405	Finally, Mr President. Great. Views to 2040. Inspiring. But there's a lot to be done in the here and now. In a number of areas, the government's capacity for implementation is inadequate. For example, in addressing the shortages of professionals, or the climate and energy forecast, we are just lagging behind. There really has to be a big tooth, with North Netherlands and the Just Transition Fund first. That's really messed up, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u406	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u407	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors and their staff for their hard work, not only this week but also in the months before, because of the corona crisis. I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is not excluded that as a result of the crisis companies tend to invest less in R&D, including in the medium term;]] [[Whereas an overview of the effectiveness of various possible parameter changes in the Wbso is largely lacking;]] [[Whereas the disk boundary in the Wbso has been unchanged since 2016;]] [[Calls on the Government, on the basis of available research for the summer of 2021, to identify what is known about the effectiveness of various parameter adjustments within the Wbso, in particular to address the advantages and disadvantages of a disk extension and the introduction of an additional disk in which the current second disk becomes the third disk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the national metrology institute VSL is in private hands;]] [[noting that short-term interests in the free market may conflict with the long-term objective of a national metrology institute;]] [[considers that a national metrology institute is vital for the Dutch high-tech manufacturing industry;]] [[considers that it is crucial to describe the relationship between government and the market in such a way as to ensure that VSL can carry out its social tasks and has and continues to have the necessary qualities at the appropriate level in the future;]] [[Calls on the Government to define clearly the roles, responsibilities and powers of the Ministry, the Board of Experts, the Director, shareholder and supervisory board in order to secure the necessary checks-and-balances and to inform the Chamber in the first half of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Recovery and Resilience Facility, the RRF, is open to submission of plans by Member States;]] [[noting that the cross-compliance of the Fund has been made public;]] [[noting that several Member States have already submitted their plans and that agreements are already being made with sectors in those countries;]] [[considers that maintaining a European level playing field is of great importance for a fair competitive position for highly internationally oriented sectors, such as the Dutch manufacturing industry and the maritime industry;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to participate in the RRF's first round of applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Climate Agreement is based on a balanced distribution of ownership in an area aiming at 50% ownership of the production of the local environment (inhabitants and businesses);]] [[having noted that the Northern Court of Auditors has carried out an investigation into the distribution of costs and benefits of renewable energy projects, concluding that, under environmental law, provinces and municipalities have virtually no powers to enforce compensation and financial participation;]] [[Calls on the Government, in cooperation with IPO and VNG, to actively support decentralised authorities in ensuring financial participation in renewable energy projects, e.g. with standards and best practices, to assess the need for additional legal instruments for this purpose, and to inform the Court of progress in spring 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-46]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-47]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-48]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Harbers, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u408	Then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas governments, including the Empire, can use their purchasing power to promote innovation;]] [[Whereas the SBIR instrument strengthens innovation and SMEs;]] [[noting that the SBIR instrument is still under-utilised and that there is little knowledge of the content of innovative possibilities in most procurement departments of public authorities;]] [[Calls on the Government to agree with contracting authorities within the government to promote and set targets for innovative procurement over the next three years;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with IPO and VNG on how innovative procurement through SMEs can be promoted by local authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u409	Go ahead, Mr. Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u410	Thank you, Mr President. We had a nice debate. We talked about biomass. We have seen the Minister on his way to abolishing biomass. In the meantime, it is true that abroad is naturally watching how things are going in the Netherlands with the abolition of woody biomass in particular. The Minister has the chance to become a frontrunner when it comes to abolishing woody biomass and the subsidies on it; not because he is aspiring to a place in history, as we know by now, but because it is actually and scientifically necessary. I agree with him. That's why the next motions, to help him do that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still no clarity when subsidies for woody biomass for heat generation are phased out;]] [[Calls on the Government not to grant new subsidies for the generation of heat from woody biomass as from 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is possible for coal plants to switch 100% to woody biomass in 2025;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant new subsidies for the production of heat from woody biomass to coal plants that switch to 100% woody biomass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u411	The assumption is that coal plants could switch 100% to woody biomass by 2025. Perhaps the Minister will be able to remove the certainty or uncertainty about this in the second term. Then, of course, I'll withdraw the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop and buy out all ongoing subsidies for heat generation by woody biomass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u412	So much for the biomass chapter. I hope the Minister will take over the incentives. Then there's another motion on Urgenda. We have to table a motion on this because it is simply not clear whether the Urgenda target is being met and the Minister is not giving it any clarity either. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is still uncertain whether the Urgenda objective is being met;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures by 31 December 2020 to ensure that the Urgenda target is met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u413	Finally. It is, of course, a matter of getting rid of fossil energy as quickly as possible, and we must therefore get rid of subsidies on it as quickly as possible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands already agreed in Europe in 2013 to abolish fossil energy subsidies by 2020;]] [[noting that there was a motion in October 2020 (Room 32813, No. 591) was adopted to address the exemptions in the energy tax in the national energy tax review and ODE, which will be completed in the first quarter of 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to include a concrete phasing-out path for the phasing-out of fossil subsidies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u414	Mr. Chairman. Finally. Thank you for all the answers and also thank you for joining me in Mr Sienot's amendment on the extension of the postal code regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u415	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering my questions, mostly on paper, some of which are simply oral. Most of the answers are satisfactory, but some of them deserve to be pointed out as far as I am concerned. Hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there was no clear objective in the past cabinet period to address the regulatory burden and that the calculated annual regulatory burden as a result of legislation increased by around 1.2 billion in this period;]] [[Whereas regulatory pressure has also increased in the perception of many SME entrepreneurs rather than decreased;]] [[calls on the Government to apply at least a zero line as regards the evolution of the control pressure;]] [[points out that it is desirable to set a concrete target for reducing regulatory burden for the next cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u417	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the maritime manufacturing industry is in severe weather, including due to the global economic impact of the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas the sector has presented a master plan for an emission-free maritime sector;]] [[Whereas other European Member States support their maritime sector with billions of euros and many national contracting entities;]] [[calls on the Government to work together with the maritime sector on a maritime recovery plan, considering the possibilities for co-financing, whether defence missions can be brought forward and how European funds can be used,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u418	And then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cabinet intends to strengthen the 49% C0 reduction target by 2030 in line with the increased European ambition of 55%;]] [[Whereas the implementation of the current 49% objective is already complex and involves several bottlenecks, including with regard to the built environment and energy infrastructure, and that strengthening this objective will therefore have a major impact on the implementation and support of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the government not to tighten up the Dutch Climate Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u419	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive answers, as well as the official support that has answered all our questions in detail. It is not entirely satisfactory, and that is why I have a number of motions to change the policy of the cabinet somewhat. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that manyzzp'ers have lost their assignments and revenues;]] [[Whereas there are no "work-to-work" pathways available to them from an employer;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether further training and coaching vouchers can be created for Zpp's staff so that they can get new work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of guarantee schemes have been set up in the context of the corona crisis;]] [[whereas two of these schemes, such as the GOC (C Guaranteed Enterprise Financing Corona) and the KKC (Klein Credit Corona), are used for only 5%;]] [[calls on the Government to make these arrangements better known to entrepreneurs and to increase their use in other ways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks have been supportive to entrepreneurs during the first corona wave;]] [[having noted that it was possible to suspend repayment of appropriations by a number of months;]] [[Considering that there is now a doubt and that further coulance is left to "customisation" of banks;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultations with the banks in order to discuss a further repayment break,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all ministries and the House of Representatives have signed the Charter Diversity;]] [[Whereas this can also be requested from public procurement companies;]] [[calls on the Government to include the Charter Diversity as a condition for major public procurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-59]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-60]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-61]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u420	The last motion concerns discrimination in the entrepreneurial market. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several studies show that racism and discrimination are present in various forms, including on the labour market and the housing market;]] [[Whereas it is plausible that racism and discrimination are also present in and between economic operators in the award of contracts and in public procurement;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into racism and discrimination in the entrepreneurial market and to forward it to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u421	Mr. Chairman. Discrimination in the housing market and discrimination by brokers has been denied for years. It took a while to prove it's there. So I'd like to ask the Secretary of State and the Minister. They can say: it is not there and we have Article 1, so there must be no discrimination. Those are all fine words and we have heard them in recent years. That's what we've heard about fraud. You can't commit fraud, but we still have detectives to apprehend those people. I think it is time to investigate discrimination in the entrepreneurial market and, if there are facts, to tackle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u422	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, I'm just saying right. I have signed enough, so it seems unnecessary to add another one. I have a few comments to make. I have co-signed and supported the motion and the amendment on solar panels. Although the Minister says that the number of solar panels has increased considerably, more than 1% of the roofs a year are still under way for more than 80 years before we have reasonable coverage. I think that's way too far away. I do have another point, and that is a much more difficult point. That doesn't fit into this flow of motions at all. I had asked the Minister a question in his capacity as responsible for the CBS. I was concerned about something other than what the answers are about. I was concerned with a basic mortal sin. That's what I think in this case. It is a question of life expectancy, so perhaps that is the case in two respects. For political reasons, a higher life expectancy was introduced by the CBS in 2013. This was within the framework of the hysterical increase in the AOW age, as stated by the Prime Minister afterwards, because life expectancy would be much higher than previously assumed. According to these researchers, the Dutch figures were too negative. It was said: because the countries around us have good health care and the Netherlands also has good health care, it is not likely that the Dutch figures are correct and we need to adjust them upwards on the basis of the countries around us. I think that's a mortal sin, because you can't look at it like that. I can rely on 40 years of experience in healthcare. I know what the care is like. So I know you can't compare things like that. Afterwards we also saw that 10,000 extra flu deaths produced another windfall of 150 million in the last spring note. We are now also in a very sad situation that we have 10,000 extra deaths. So my question was the following. Is the air that was pumped in then, or the anabolic steroid or whatever you want to call it, out now and are we back to normal numbers again? They are also important for the financial position of the Netherlands. We're gonna need it in the election programs. The CPB must take this into account in the programmes. Are we back to the actual situation in the Netherlands or are we still thinking of wishing? Then I can say that the Leyden Academy estimates that in theory we can be 130 years old and that you can base all the expectations of life on that. That seems to me to be a non-scientific basis. I say that with pain in the heart, because I am a great fan of both the publications of NIDI and statistics. So I am not criticising the institutions, but I am critical of the quality of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u424	Can you come back for a moment, Mr. Van Otterloo? There is a question for you from Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u425	If you criticize the work of institutions, I think you have de facto criticism of the institutions. Mr Van Otterloo may well criticize the way in which the CBS calculates that age, but say that it happened for political reasons at an institution that was really set up to be independent, I find a very serious accusation. However, I would like to ask whether Mr Van Otterloo has any proof of this, regardless of the fact that he disagrees with that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u426	Mr Van Otterloo has proof of this. At that time, a piece was published stating that, now that the AOW age was 65, it was time to look again at life expectancy and establish that life expectancy could be adjusted upwards. I think that is a clear political reasoning behind it. It was therefore not in the factual situation from which the figures in the Netherlands gave rise, but in the fact that the law was amended, that the age of 65 was released and that the CBS was the reason to raise life expectancy. I say that with pain in the heart. I've been receiving the magazine Demos from NIDI for 35 years. I'd be delighted to read that. It's not in there. But I thought that was crossing the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u427	I found the increase in the age of AOW to be an extremely stupid move at the time. We were and are opposed to this, but it is a little strange to see the plot when the measure has been implemented and then say: look, now suddenly they are going to change the figures as a result. It would have made sense to do that before. In addition, I honestly hope that the CBS will look at what they think life expectancy is every year. That seems like the kind of figure you keep an eye on all the time, but I'm just a stupid historian.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u428	No, Mr Futselaar, the situation was as follows. This was done and then an accelerated increase in the AOW age was introduced on the basis of the new figures. This meant that the first increase for the CBS therefore gave rise to the adjustment of the age expectations, in order to argue that it had to rise faster than before. Then we got the accelerated age adjustment with Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u429	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u430	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for answering the questions. It was very nice that a large part of this was answered in writing, so thank you also to the officials who took care of it for you. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch entrepreneurs suffer great damage due to the corona measures of this cabinet, corona measures that are often not technically substantiated and are based on the unreliable results of the PCR test. Instead of support, the regulatory burden continues to increase and the cabinet perseveres in all kinds of technical misguided hobbies, such as nitrogen, solar fields, biomass, gaslessness and pfas. The accumulation of measures, taxes and rules has been huge over the past year and, in particular, cannot continue for the ordinary SME entrepreneur. Still, I have one more example. To receive that last part of the NOW 1, a huge administrative effort must be made, which our entrepreneurs must outsource to their accountants, with all the associated costs. The bureaucracy faced by entrepreneurs is truly shameless. Isn't it really possible to do that a little simpler? Mr. Chairman. I often talk about the catering industry and the entertainment industry, because they are in the front line and take the first steps of this cabinet. But what about the taxi industry, which is largely dependent on the catering industry? How about the travel industry, which is de facto abolished by this cabinet? That is why I would like to make one final appeal to this cabinet to leave something of an inheritance. SMEs have exhausted over the past three years. The sailing corona policy is the death blow for the economy. The beginning of Mr Wiebes' extremely realistic speech was also encouraging. He deserves a compliment for that. He said we have to make a living first, and we can't spend until after that. If we earn it now smart and efficient, then there is also more to spend. For a number of people in this Chamber, that might be a revelation. The attention of Secretary of State Keijzer to tackling the increased regulatory burden is also good, but it would like to be both quantitative and qualitative. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has six months left to make something of it, and I trust she'll pick up the glove. Then I'll come to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Shell is considering moving its headquarters from The Hague to London;]] [[whereas this move will have enormous economic consequences for the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the financial consequences of Shell leaving the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to maintain Shell's head office in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SMEs are barely able to take credit from the bank due to stricter regulation, increased bureaucracy, longer waiting times and higher costs and that the corona crisis is only making this problem worse;]] [[Considering that this problem has led to the emergence of several alternative financiers, but the division is enormous at present and SMEs are not always able to find their way to these financiers;]] [[Considering that it is crucial for SMEs to be able to draw up a credit, especially now, and that a solution can be found to the problems posed by the creation of a single central organisation for SMEs to use for information and services;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the establishment of a "Dutch Business Bank" and the possibility of public co-financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement provides that the pay-by-pay period for small employers will be reduced from two to one year;]] [[Whereas, in the current circumstances, both SMEs and workers are even more likely to be employed than they normally are and should therefore be encouraged to return to permanent employment for SMEs;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the pay-by-pay period for small employers is reduced to one year as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet, Mr Graus and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-65]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIII-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u431	I understand, of course, that this last motion is more in the area of SZW's colleagues, but it is all touching. If you cannot appreciate the motion, I would ask you to direct it to your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u432	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. We have a lot of motions and the cabinet members will undoubtedly want to discuss these motions with each other. I therefore propose that we suspend for 15 minutes. I see to the rulers that that is enough and I shall therefore suspend for fifteen minutes after the last motion has been received by the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u433	The next item is the second term of office. The members of parliament will reply to the questions in the second term and the 54 motions will be appreciated. Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u434	Mr. Chairman. Mr Harbers made two calls, one on hydrogen and one on the ETS compensation. I heard his calls. The point of geothermals. Similar cases would exist just across the border in Germany. I'll tell him I'll point this out to the SodM. Mrs Mulder asked for clarification on something that was raised in the motions. Mrs Beckerman has asked a question which has been raised in her motion. And Mr Van Otterloo's suggestion that there would be political influence is really far from my point of view! I'm going to the motions and I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u435	Before you do so, I give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u436	It is not essentially a question of whether or not it was political. The point is, it was raised back then. I want to know to what extent, after seven years, life expectations have been adapted to reality. That was my question and I only referred to the fact that it was then established on the basis of our neighbouring countries and not on the basis of the Netherlands. I want to go back to the Netherlands and to the Dutch figures. So it is about, and that is what my question was about, that those figures are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u437	Mr. Van Otterloo, it wasn't just a question. You've also made an accusation. You are now much more modest and say: I do not agree with the method. I'm aware of that, and I'm not going to say anything about it. I do not comment on that either, because I have not studied the method. But I do not think that you have in any way made it plausible that this is a question of political influence, and that is far from my point of view. This question about a 2013 adjustment is a little far-reaching and the answer we cannot therefore go into now. My suggestion would be that you ask the question in writing. Then it will be answered neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u438	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u439	I would like to make one last point in advance. There are deadlines in all sorts of motions. If a motion is adopted, we will, of course, do our best, but I say in this silly situation: the crisis, but also the health of the employees, prevails. We walk along the edge and I ask you to understand. I can't do anything else, otherwise we're gonna say, "How can we do all that?" Well, I think we have 50 motions. This is now a tradition in this period. I wonder how we will look back on this daily movement flow in ten years' time, because sometimes I find my own commitments in the operative part. But not always, which is why I have to discourage some of the motions. I walk by the motions and then the Secretary of State takes her share. The motion in part No. 13 asks me to investigate urgently what is still out of the question. In Wednesday's debate on the support package, I made a clear commitment that I am going to figure things out. I don't want to raise expectations that go beyond what I said there. This motion does, and I have to discourage her for that reason. But it's being mapped and we'll get back to you. The motion in part No. 16, I'll leave judgment room. The motion in part No. 17 I have to advise against. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mr Kops' 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u440	Slow down, please. Otherwise, colleagues will not be able to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u441	The motion in part No. 17 on biomass I have to advise against. The motion in part No. 18 about the households I have to advise against. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mr Kops 19 on any form of climate policy. The motion in part No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u442	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to step in, because I actually think that if a Member of Parliament makes a motion, you should devote at least one sentence to the reason why you advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u443	In some cases, I spend even more time on it than the motion-holder himself. In the motion in part No. 17 states: "calls on the government to stop all subsidies for biomass immediately." I do not know if I can explain this much now. The motion in part No. 19 "calls on the government to stop any form of climate policy immediately." I do not think Mr Kops expects a more detailed explanation. We have discussed this at length in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u444	Thank you. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u445	Mr President, I understand you. It also has a bit to do with handling. But I am really on the Minister's side in this: it is so many motions with so many repetitions that have been tabled so many times. Let the MPs who want an explanation come to the microphone, but let's just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u446	I hear the Minister say that this has been discussed many times and that he has therefore discouraged the motion. That's exactly what I wanted to hear. Carry on, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u447	Fine. The motion for a resolution on a promising growth policy. That is a commitment I made in the debate. I'll leave the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u448	That was the motion in part No. 21, Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u449	That was the motion in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u450	I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u451	It would be nice if the songs were mentioned first, because it goes at a rather fast pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u452	The motion in part No. 21 is a promise I made. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 24 asks the government for an additional policy package and so on. No. I said in the debate that I am taking an open attitude to the results of the Van Gest committee, which are indeed available by that time, but that I do not want to raise expectations that I can close the gap. I must therefore discourage that motion, in line with what I said in the debate. The motion in part No. 25 calls on me to come up with an improved legislative programme. Then I would like to take the motion in such a way that I will talk to the Council of State to see how I can achieve an improved version of the legislative programme on behalf of the 2021 Climate Note. Then I'll leave the motion judgment room. I do not commit to taking up literally every wish of the Council of State in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u453	I see both proposers nodding for the Acts. Then you can understand her like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u454	Yeah, I hope so. Then I'll leave the motion to part no. 26 on the no-regret measures for the energy infrastructure judgment Chamber, in line with what I said in the debate. The motion in part No. 28 doesn't ask me to judge. That's a speech-out. The motion in part No. 32 calls for an integral plan of approach and so on. In line with the debate, I believe that the fight against poverty should take place in the August decision-making process, entirely across all areas. That is why I must advise against this motion, in line with what I said in the debate. The motion in part No. 33 is about the Zip code rose scheme. The motion calls on the government to consult with cooperatives in order to find a solution to the experienced problems. This is undoubtedly about tariffs and payback time. In my opinion, but also with regard to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, this will ensure a reasonable payback period for energy cooperatives. I do not think that we should discuss this issue here. Another point is the Agnes Mulder/Dik-Faber motion (32813), No. 579) to the Tax Plan. He's being treated there. That is another point; it is about a transitional arrangement. It's not meant here. This motion in part No. 33 I advise against this. The motion in part No. 34 asks the government to ensure that the arrangements are at least equal for the Hemwegcentrale and the Onyxcentrale. This depends on whether the investigation shows that the situations are also the same, because only equal situations are given equal treatment. That needs to be figured out first. I reject this motion because it accepts equality a priori. The motion in part No. 35 is about investigating the full potential of solar panels on all suitable roofs. Yeah, there's the word "all" in there. We're a free country. People are boss of their own house. I would also point out that for no other form of energy generation there are as many regulations as sunshine on the roof. There's even another one next year. Next year we have the netting scheme, the Zip code rose scheme, the SDE++ and the ISDE. I would therefore like to discourage this appeal. Then the motion to part No. 36. In line with what we have discussed in the debate and in line with the advice given to the amendment, I would advise against the motion in part No. 36. The motion in part No. 37. I made a commitment. I consider the operative part to be in line with that commitment and therefore leave this motion to judge Chamber. As regards the motion in part No. 38 I have already indicated that I was not proud of the grip of the pot. I have given a cautious hint that I think that Mr Sienot's amendment is also a bit of a sin against this motion, but I am prepared to give the motion judgment Chamber, because I think it is a sensible appeal. The motion in part No. 39 I'll leave judgment room as well. With the motion in part No. Forty-two, I'm having trouble. I understand that outside ideas for the future of Tata could be productive at some stage. But I am very keen to finish the conversations with the company, the management and the shareholder in a good way in order to reach productive agreements. I should have completed those appointments by the end of the year, I hope. Then there should be a clear view of it. I would prefer the motion to be put to the vote at that time. So I should be dissuading the motion right now, but I don't want to do that. My proposal would therefore be that the petitioner should retain the motion. Then we will see at the moment that the situation is there whether it is still meaningful, whether it is extremely meaningful or no longer meaningful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u455	Before the end of the year. Is that December 31st? For ease of reference I am going to go out with the Christmas celebrations, because I think the rulers will be ready for some recess by Christmas. That's in six, seven weeks. I'm prepared to hold the motion. However, I would ask the Minister to maintain good contacts with stakeholders in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u456	Definitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u457	In particular, with workers' representatives or participation, because that is where the main concerns lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u458	At the request of Mr Moorlag, I propose his motion (35570-XIII, No. 42). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u459	Sure, that's a commitment. The motion in part No. 48 is about the application round of the RRF. There is also a lot of uncertainty about this. We are discussing the rules with the European Commission. There's gonna be more rounds. You do not necessarily have to participate in the first round, but we do not know the exact conditions and position of the Netherlands in relation to the criteria. Before Christmas, I would like to inform the Chamber about the assessments of the trial. I would therefore ask Mr Bruins to hold the motion until then. Then we can look at it more wisely by then, with the information in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u460	I'll hold the motion for six weeks, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u461	At the request of Mr Bruins, I propose his motion (35570-XIII, No. 48), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products and on the common organization of That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u462	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. The motion in part No. 49 I leave judgment room. The motion in part No. 51 I have to dissuade and is similar to the previous motions that I had also easily dissuaded. The motion in part No. 52 I advise for the same reason. The motion in part No. 53, in line with what I said in the debate on it, I must also advise against it. The motion in part No. 54 is similar to a motion tabled by Mr Van der Lee which I have advised against, and I therefore advise against. The motion in part No. 55 seems entirely to me to be the case with a subsequent government. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The motion in part No. 58 is not in line with the coalition agreement and the policy that has been expressed several times. The motion in part No. 64 is about Shell's possible move in the eyes of the proposer. I am asked to identify the financial consequences. I am not going to do that, because I do not need a financial calculation to know that we would like to keep this company in the Netherlands, not only from an economic point of view, but also simply for the whole locational climate, the strength of the AEX and because this company was one of the driving forces to help other large industries and to participate in sustainability. I thought that was extremely important. I've had a lot of use for that. As far as I am concerned, this company has the genuine intention of converting a large fossil company into a different kind of energy company. I wouldn't want to lose them, but I'm not going to quantify that. It says: Asks the government to do everything in its power to maintain Shell's head office in the Netherlands. The attempt to do exactly this at the beginning of this cabinet period was not supported by the Chamber. I continue to make reasonable efforts, but I must discourage the motion with this wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u463	I did not miss the commentary between the rules on the assessment of the motion on biomass. As if it were the same, it was done with one word. I'm sorry to hear that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u464	Excuse me? I honestly missed the point, but I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u465	The way in which the Minister did the same thing between the rules because of the Biomass Motions of the Party for Animals as the previous motions has not escaped me, while I do think there is a difference in the structure of the motions. I think he's a little short on the Party for Animals motion. But my question is actually about Urgendamotia. I understand from the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u466	Could you give me the number, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u467	The motion in part No. 54. I understand from the debate that the Minister cannot say whether he is going to reach the Urgenda goals. I just want to make sure I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u468	The motion in part No. 54. Let me get that for you. It is still unclear whether the measures that we have already taken and which only need to be worked out... It is assumed that they would not work. I've announced policy. I'm gonna do that. The stakes are to make it, but you never know for sure, because we are seeing a great shift in the energy market and so on. My commitment is not that additional measures are needed, but that the existing measures will soon be sufficient in their implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u469	The point is that motions have been adopted which state that the Urgenda target must be achieved with some certainty. They've been hired. The Minister said, "I'm going to do it." In this debate we come to the conclusion that the Minister cannot say with certainty whether he can make it or whether the measures he is committed to are sufficient. I want to confirm that he is not yet prepared to anticipate this and to take any additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u470	No, because the stakes are to get this. The certainty is never 100%, but it is reasonable enough to make it. I do not want to say that I would need any additional measures for this, because that has not yet been demonstrated. There is uncertainty, but the measures have not yet been calculated, so that is why. Moreover, I would like to acknowledge to Mr Van Raan that the intention expressed by his biomass moves is different from that of the previous ones, because Mr Van Raan does not think it is green enough and the other party thought it is too green. So, no, I don't want to put anyone on the same page. I thought we had dealt with the subject quite exhaustively, which is why I thought I could be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u471	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u472	My final motion is the motion in part No. 66, but fortunately Mr Wiebes has already done a few. So I'm gonna make it quick, Mr. Chairman. The first motion, the Graus c.s. motion. in piece No. 14, I don't recommend. Justis is doing screening for calls for tenders. You don't want a database of confidential data that can be accessed by everyone. The third motion, the Graus c.s. motion. in piece No. 15, in my view, calls for noticeable regulatory pressure for entrepreneurs to be highlighted. This motion will be judged by Chamber. Cabinet policy is aimed at significantly reducing regulatory burdens and administrative burdens. It is good to talk about opportunities that municipalities and entrepreneurs see. I would also like to involve the service providers to see if this can be translated into local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u473	Thank you. Mr Graus has a question on his motion for a resolution. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u474	First of all, thanks to the Minister and the Secretary of State for the "judge chamber" for the motions on documents No. 15 and 16. I am now talking about the motion in part No. 14 on the database. Indeed, certain companies are being screened, including by the Tax Administration. It also examines whether they are fraudulent companies. If they come out right, they could end up in a database. Then municipalities do not have to ask the company itself every time. Let me give you an example. A construction company often has to submit the same papers to each municipality for each assignment, while a municipality could simply consult a single database. This is therefore for the purpose of reducing the administrative burden on these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u475	Yes, but this motion is too general. In any case, the Justis Service is already digitizing information that can be made public. That's what we're waiting for now. So I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u476	Mr Graus, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u477	Then how can I make the motion more concrete so that it is not too general? What does the Secretary of State want me to change? Of course, I am prepared to amend her with the proposers so that she can be accepted. Better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u478	I think it would be better to wait and see what it looks like after the digitization blow has been made and then to see if Mr Graus is satisfied. At any rate, it is clear that Mr Graus would like this to be made easier for entrepreneurs. Well, that's what the Service Justis has to do. I just think it is good to wait and see before we proceed with perhaps a further assignment. If that's what this motion says, even if it's what the Service Justis is doing, then no motion is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u479	Then I'd better arrest her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u480	You could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u481	You can always do that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u482	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (35570-XIII, No. 14), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u483	Mr. Chairman. My name isn't under the motion in part number. 15, but if you'll allow me, I'll ask you a question. This motion gets judgment Chamber, so there's a good chance it's gonna make it. The motion asks the government "to discuss possibilities that lead to noticeable regulatory pressure for entrepreneurs in the short term." I wonder why that judgment gets Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u484	I'd almost like to ask, why not? I have seen this in the light of the research carried out by SMEs in the Netherlands. I always think it is good to talk to SMEs in the Netherlands, in general, but certainly when it comes to a survey they have done on regulatory pressure. Maybe there's something I don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u485	I would like to suggest to the authors that they amend the motion and make it 'to noticeable reduction of control pressure' or 'to noticeable relief of control pressure'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u486	Oh, my God, there's a word wrong, according to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u487	Well, the proposers can take that if they wish to change or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u488	My suggestion would be to discourage her in this form and not to call for more regulatory pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u489	But you've heard the Secretary of State. Mr. Graus, you're the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u490	But I do think it's important that if I get a "judge chamber" motion, then a Member of Parliament will say, "You have to dissuade her." That's pretty bad. But this is a motion that I had to change one second before filing, in order to have a chance. It also included other signatories. So it became that motion. Mine was really perfect. I made her exactly like that. I sent her around, so people can see that. Mine was all right. But I made her this way, so she had a chance at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u491	Then your constructive attitude will be punished as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u492	Yes, exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u493	Mr. Graus, she just has a nice "judge room." I'd say, cock in, it's winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u494	I would like to say to Mr Bruins that I sometimes do so at home. I will answer a question that is meant but perhaps put differently. That's how you see it. Then the motion to part No. 20 of Wiersma c.s. on the "one in, one out" system to reduce regulatory pressure for entrepreneurs. I know that one. I am very willing to put this system together. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 22 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Verhoeven on Dutch technology companies. Judgment Room. EZK and Invest-NL are investigating the creation of a scale-up fund aimed at capital-intensive, high-quality and strategically important key technologies. The preparation of the fund plan and the corresponding fund criteria shall be carried out in close consultation with market participants, in particular the ROMs. In doing so, the knowledge and expertise of these ROMs will certainly be used. Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Amhaouch. That motion I can also give judgment Chamber. It's just important that that happens. So it's good to talk to the NFIA to see how they can do that. Then I have the motion in part No. 27 by Mr Amhaouch and others on the promotion of a diverse financing landscape. Judgment Room. I am ready to accelerate the exploration of the creation of a fund of alternative financiers and to explore other opportunities to stimulate a diverse SME financing landscape. With regard to the research into whether an SME bank fits into this and how it could be developed, I would point out that I do not expect this to contribute to a diverse financing landscape and strengthen the solvency position. But I think it would be wise to look at that again. Of course, we involve the relevant parties in this investigation. Then the motion to part No. 29 members of Amhaouch and Palland on company succession and family businesses. Judgment Room. We are going to see what is possible to further inform family businesses with already existing information on company succession from the government. In 2021, an assessment of the tax regime focusing on business succession, the BOR, will be carried out. It may be ready in Q2. As a result, the execution of the motion and the evaluation of the BOR may be reported to the Chamber at the same time. Then the motion to part No. 30 members Amhaouch and Wiersma on reshoring. Judgment Room. We have the ambition to strengthen industry and support SMEs in industry. That's why we work together in Smart Industry. In advance, I think it is good to reduce expectations regarding reshoring, but if industry is going to assess its own chains on security of supply and want to adapt something to it, moreshoring or reshoring can certainly prove to be a possibility. The NFIA and Invest in Holland partners are now looking at the different opportunities in the region in practice. The Smart Industry programme is certainly relevant. I really want opportunities for industry, employment and safeguarding public interests in the Netherlands if they are there. In line with the motion-Heerma c.s. has been asked by the Economic and Social Council to deliver an opinion on reshoring. This is expected to be completed by the end of this year. Then there is the Amhaouch/Bruins motion in part No. 31 on process innovation: judgment of Chamber. The importance of process innovation is clear, but I would like to point out that outside the Wbso there are a large number of schemes that support process innovation, especially among small and medium-sized enterprises. You should be careful that a new scheme does not support existing process innovations, because that is not allowed. But I interpret this motion in such a way that we look again closely at whether we are missing something. That's why "judge chamber." Then there is the Verhoeven/Wiersma motion on part No. 40 on ecosystems. Judgment Room; we want to come to a learning community. That will sound like music to Mr Verhoeven at his last budget debate. The Verhoeven/Wiersma motion in part No. 41, about a fund for academic start-ups, I'm judging Chamber. Dutch Academic Impact Fund is known. We are talking to the VSNU to see how that can be further developed. Thank you for this motion, so that everyone now has it on the retina. The Moorlag motion c.s. in piece No. 43, on the Technics Pact: judgment Chamber. This is exactly what we are doing with the social package of 23 September as part of the crisis and recovery package, EUR 1.4 billion in schemes and supporting people in employment. This also includes intersectoral retraining, where we want to reduce technical shortages. I said a few things about that in the first term. The Moorlag/Amhaouch motion in part No. 44 on fund strengthening ROMs. 150 million will be made available. We'll see how that works out in the end. If the figures show that resources are not sufficient, we will see whether additional aid is useful and necessary. "Judge Room," but I think that's where I started. Maybe I missed it; we can check it out later. "It doesn't matter," says Mr Verhoeven. He only gets easier as the end approaches. Then the Moorlag motion in part No. 45, about the Just Transition Fund. I advise against this motion. I think we've exchanged extensively why. Then there is the Bruins/Amhaouch motion in part No. 46 over the Wbso disk boundaries: Judgment Chamber. I am willing to review existing insights on the effectiveness of different parameter adjustments within the Wbso. The evaluations provide a basis for this. I cannot promise Mr Bruins that, on the basis of available knowledge, it is clear which adjustment is likely to have the most effects, but I am going to make a serious effort to identify the effectiveness of parameter adjustments. Then there is the Bruins motion in part No. 47 over VSL. I find it extraordinary to see every year how Mr Bruins makes this important institution part of the budget debate. Judgment of the Court of Justice; it is in line with the measures contained in the recent letter to the Court, namely the drafting of a communication protocol between VSL, the Council of Experts and my ministry. I am happy to extend this to the shareholders and the supervisory board and I am prepared to inform the Chamber as a whole. I now tend to say why this is so important, but of course Mr Bruins has already done so. The Bruins motion in part No. 50 on innovative procurement and procurement I give "judge chamber." I have committed myself to this period of government in order to have more SBIRs implemented through the 10 million released for SBIR under the SBIR government agreement. It worked. I am very willing to draw attention to this issue during the consultations with VNG and IPO. A large number of SBIRs have been launched in recent times, but I do say that it is ultimately a choice of the contracting authorities concerned. The motion in part No. 56 of Stoffer/Van Haga deals with the concrete objective of reducing the regulatory burden. I advise against this motion. It has been an explicit choice to set up a quantitative control printing instrumentarium. If that's not the way it should be, it's really up to a next cabinet, as far as I'm concerned. The motion in part No. 57 I'm judging Chamber. It fits in with standing policy. We are talking to the sector about a master plan for the Growth Fund and the RRF, Recovery and Resilience Facility. All the necessary work has been done within the framework of covid. Then I come to the group of DENK. Mr Öztürk has tabled no less than five motions. The motion in part No. 59 asks for an in-service and coaching voucher. I would ask Mr Öztürk to keep this motion with the request to raise it in two weeks' time when the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs is being discussed. The motion in part No. 60, I'm not sure. We are already doing a great deal of information for entrepreneurs. It is good to emphasise here that all these guarantee schemes focus on financiers. They use this when extra security is sought. The motion in part No. 61, I advise. The motions in part No. 62 and item No. 63 are both about combating racism and discrimination. It is not only in Article 1 of the Constitution, it is also in the Code of Criminal Law. Racism and discrimination are not allowed, so I advise against both motions. It is also the case that you are in breach of European rules if you want to make this mandatory in a public procurement context. It can even potentially discriminate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u495	What a crazy argument: it says in the law that you should not discriminate, so I am not going to investigate whether there is discrimination in the entrepreneurial market. That's impossible, isn't it? There's a lot in the law and yet people are cheating. The Tax Office has discriminated against citizens for years and caused misery to tens of thousands of people. Then you can't say it's in the law, so I'm not gonna do anything with it? Discrimination by real estate and on the housing market has also been denied for years. It's been proven. Why don't you come with me and tell me you're willing to investigate? We have tabled five motions. Then you do think that only way to provide support is to see how you can also give the opposition the space to come to a solution together? There is no support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u496	Don't do anything, you can't say that, because within the Cabinet we have a Minister of Justice, who is ultimately responsible for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is where discrimination is actually addressed when it is at stake. We are in complete agreement that there is discrimination. Unfortunately. Unfortunately, I'd almost like to say. But let's name it with each other every time, establish it and fight it, instead of doing an investigation, which I fear will unfortunately be the conclusion that it is also the case here, because there is discrimination everywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u497	A brief final remark, because we are not going to repeat the discussion. And please state in a moment whether you have the motion in part no. 59 holding or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u498	I'm not gonna hold the motion. Total denial. Still in denial, while in the tax administration, in education, in all kinds of fields by international organisations, from Amnesty International to all kinds of European organisations, investigations have been carried out showing discrimination. You can't say that the Minister of Justice is working on that, can you? That's bullshit, isn't it, what you're telling me? The most important thing is that you acknowledge it and say: I am prepared to investigate whether there is discrimination in the entrepreneurial market. There is! If you're not willing to investigate it, you're still in denial and in a whole other world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u499	It would be nice if Mr Öztürk would listen. This is touching me. I do not deny that there is discrimination; unfortunately, unfortunately, unfortunately. This is also at the expense of a lot of talent in our society. But I don't think doing research is gonna help at all. Calling each other that it's in each of us is a start. Then we have to deal with it when it comes to the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u500	Thank you. Mr Öztürk has indicated that he has his motion in part No. 59 does not persist. Then what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u501	Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 64 by Mr Van Haga. He called for the creation of a "Dutch Business Bank." I'm sure our banks' employees are listening now, saying, "That's me." I'm sure that's not what Mr Van Haga means. In any case, a large part of the financing is still going through banks, namely 28 billion. As far as I am concerned, this is not a point of order. That's why I'm telling her off. Then the motion to part No. 65 on a pay-by-pay period for small employers. There's been a lot of shit going on in there. I think that this discussion should be dealt with mainly in the Social Affairs and Employment budget in two weeks' time. That's what I just said. I would like to suggest to Mr Van Haga that he raise the point there and therefore stick to it. If he doesn't, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u502	For the Acts: I see Mr Van Haga shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u503	Clear. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u504	That concludes the debate on this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-12.u505	We'll be voting on the motions next Tuesday. I thank everyone.
