ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the additional JHA Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 4 March 2020. This concerns asylum and foreign policy. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Thank you for joining us. We have five participants on the side of the Chamber, four of whom are going to speak. The first is Mr Emiel van Dijk of the Party for Freedom Group. Like everyone else, he has two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the Turkey deal, the VVD has subjected itself to the whims of Islamofascist Erdogan. Many hundreds of thousands of non-Western immigrants have been brought to the Netherlands by Rutte and his associates in recent years. Now Erdogan is threatening to open the borders even further if he does not get an even bigger bag of money from the European Union. Pure blackmail from Turkey. But then the news. Press agency Reuters came up big last night with the news that the Netherlands, together with France, Italy and Germany, wants to offer Turkey a very large bag of money to spawn Erdogan. The VVD Secretary of State said last night that there is no concrete proposal for additional financial support to Turkey, but now it appears that the Secretary of State simply fooled the Chamber yesterday. It does not just keep the option open that more money is going to Turkey. It appears that this has already been proposed by the Dutch in Brussels. As a bunch of cowardly, submissive minions, Dutch diplomats just want to give Erdogan even more money for this form of blackmail. This is outrageous and unacceptable. I therefore have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to send a penny of Dutch taxpayers' money to Turkey, even through the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Emiel van Dijk and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-596]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Erdogan has opened the borders wide and again sends loads of lucky seekers and other troublemakers this way. Buses were set up in Constantinople to bring migrants to the EU. Hundreds of thousands, if not millions, say Erdogan is sending us in our direction. This cabinet and this secretary of state will let it all go and do nothing about it. The PVV, on the other hand, did. I therefore have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to allow any lucky seeker, even those now sent by Erdogan to Europe, to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Emiel van Dijk and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-597]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Then Mrs Becker from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Contrary to what the PVV colleague claims here, by closing the Turkey deal, the VVD has reduced a huge influx of migrants to Europe by 96% in 2016. We're still very happy that we did. We can now see that Mr Erdogan has come close and is trying to blackmail the EU. The VVD also said yesterday in the debate with this Secretary of State: we will not be blackmailed; the deal is the deal. I am therefore pleased that the Secretary of State has said that this should also be the case in the cabinet, that the European Commission should come to the table with Ankara as soon as possible in order to ensure that the deal is actually respected on both sides and, more importantly, that the Greek border remains closed in the meantime. It is good that the Greek Government is committed to this and that the EU is supporting it, not only in word but also in action. 700 million more has been promised. We have also called on the Secretary of State to see if we can do the same when a bilateral request is made to the Netherlands. I understand there's still a discussion about a ship, among other things. Finally, Mr President. I do not have any motions, but I would like to repeat to the Secretary of State that as a VVD we also think it is important not to be blackmailed by someone like Erdogan. We have to do our own homework by also having emergency scenarios in mind. We still want that deal to stay the deal, but if it doesn't work out, we also need emergency scenarios to be on the shelf to prevent a situation like 2015 from happening again. That's not what we're gonna see about the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	This is of course pure bullshit from the VVD here. These are pure crocodile tears: making a deal with dictator Erdogan and then here we are going to complain about blackmail, which we should not give in to. It was Prime Minister Rutte who did. If I may ask a question to the colleague of the VVD: is the result of this 96% reduction than the 30,000 that still come in every year, that asylum influx? If I may ask the VVD: how many were there in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	No, it is 96% about the influx towards the EU as a whole compared to the forecasts that were there. For the Netherlands, the forecast was that 96.000 migrants would come to the Netherlands. That has been reduced by a third to 33,000 in the year following that massive crisis. So that is something the VVD has managed by doing, by not screaming on the sidelines but indeed with Mr Erdogan to go to the table and to ensure that people are taken care of in the region where they are safe, rather than risking the dangerous crossing to come to Europe. Those are acts that we have managed and I still stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	It is great to see that the VVD here is trying to make nice decoration by closing the borders of Macedonia, by Serbia, by Hungary and by all the other countries that do stand for their own people and saying: we are not going to open the gates to Europe, as the VVD did. You've been submissive. You still do that to Erdogan. You're ready with the next bag of money. We don't have to expect anything from this VVD when it comes to standing up for our own people. So good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr President. We had an intrusive debate with the Secretary of State yesterday, and we do not need to do that again today. But we know that the Secretary of State is now going to discuss the solutions needed to the situation that has arisen. Erdogan abuses people in a very cynical, horrible way for his political gain. At the same time, I would also like to say that we have all seen the images of the people at the borders, not only at the borders of Turkey towards Syria, but also at the border between Turkey and Greece, where dramas are taking place. Greece is right to keep its borders closed. That is the responsibility that Greece has taken and is allowed to take, but that does not prevent us from thinking about how, as a Western society, we can properly ensure that people do not become unnecessarily victims. I would therefore like to wish the Secretary of State every success. She has a complicated task, but I think it is important that she does this well for the Netherlands. That's why I thought it was important to say that here. Something really needs to be done. The borders cannot be opened and at the same time we cannot leave people in misery in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. Then Mr Jasper van Dijk from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. As a SP, we stand for a realistic migration policy. This means that people who are not entitled to asylum will have to return to their country of origin. But a humanitarian disaster is currently taking place on the Greek islands, with death and destruction. There is room for 3,000 people on Lesbos, 3,000 refugees; there are 20,000. The Turkey deal is completely failing here. This afternoon, this Secretary of State is going to Brussels to talk about this. If it has any human dignity and solidarity in it, the EU always gives a high priority to it, then it should embrace the next motion with its European colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas thousands of children on the Greek islands are facing a humanitarian disaster;]] [[noting that the Greek Government has requested the relocation of a maximum of 2,500 unaccompanied minor asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government to call on the additional JHA Council on 4 March to comply with this request,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-598]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is going on a trip, to Brussels, we understood yesterday. I have noticed that she will certainly not start this journey with full self-confidence, so any FvD power feed she can use during the ride, I think. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite the agreement with the EU, Turkey has transported thousands of migrants to the Greek and Bulgarian borders, with the message that the border to the EU would be open;]] [[noting that the Turkey deal was concluded with the aim of preventing a scenario such as in 2015, but that Turkey is promoting immigration to Europe;]] [[Whereas there is a real risk of a further large influx of immigrants via the Balkan route to Western Europe;]] [[calls on the Cabinet, on the basis of Article 25 of the Schengen Borders Code, to re-introduce border controls, just as Germany, France, Denmark, Austria, Sweden and Norway have done,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-599]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	Motion two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	Ho ho ho. A question from Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yes, Mr President, because I wonder what that must look like in the Forum for Democracy. I understand that Mr Hiddema says: I want to prevent people from entering the Netherlands. I mean, they're not very big, so that would mean that you have to open up every truck, every bus and every trunk to see if there are migrants in there who would come to the Netherlands. Is that indeed what Forum proposes, that we check every vehicle that wants to cross the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	If those who, out of their own perception and experience and with a skilled look, become convinced that there are ten cars, of which he with his knowledge, skills and abilities, and lust for work, think "I'm going to investigate all ten," then I trust him so much that I say: yes, then traffic must be stopped for a while. Let the man do his blessed work. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	That is a clear answer, but that means that the Forum for Democracy chooses to have endless rows along the borders, which, of course, is going to hit our economy hard. Because that is the consequence you accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	Oh, no, no, no. I can give you examples that can work very liberatingly within your visions of fear. Buses Japanese tourists? Just keep going. Chinese tourists? Yeah, we have a virus now, don't we? They always have a thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	Bad example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	Eskimos? Keep driving. Balkan women's dealers? You can take it out a little bit. You have to be able to profile ethnically in a healthy way, otherwise it will not be anything at all. Anyway, I leave it to the ability of the people who will be quite willing to use all their talents to do so, because they are now unemployed behind a desk, with itchy fingers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	You have 55 seconds before your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	Hope brings life. Hope brings life. You gotta do something. I was at motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Greece, as an external border country, is currently facing virtually unsustainable asylum problems;]] [[noting that Turkey has now transported thousands of migrants on buses to the Greek border;]] [[noting that in response to this, Greece announced that it would suspend the possibility of applying for asylum;]] [[whereas this is an understandable step from a Greek perspective, and that Greece should not be accused but supported;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from condemning this step and from supporting such a condemnation within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	Well, here's a third motion against incurable wish thinking. Keep an eye on Erdogan. Learn from history. Know who you're dealing with. At uninhibited moments, he showed himself so in his heart that his true intentions sprang out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	You're gonna have to move quickly or your time will be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	Erdogan is an Islamic with a secret agenda. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Turkish President believes that democracy is like a train: when your destination is reached, get out;]] [[noting that the EU has subsidised the Turkish regime with billions in recent decades, both in the framework of the Turkey deal and in the context of EU accession;]] [[Whereas, after all these years and all these billions, Turkey has not turned out to be a "far friend" for the Netherlands and not a "good neighbour" for Greece;]] [[calls on the Government, at least as long as Erdogan is in power, not to grant any authorisation to provide EU financial assistance to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-601]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. I don't have the fourth and fifth motion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	Well, then it's just judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	Maybe I can have a copy of the fourth and fifth motions? And of the sixth, because I now have three. Mr. Chairman. Let's be very clear about one thing. The situation in Turkey and the Turkish-Greek border in particular is terrible. Greece must monitor the external borders of the European Union. That's what it does. At the same time, we see that people have been given the opportunity from the Turkish side to move towards Europe. But protecting the external borders of the European Union does not allow them to enter the European Union. That's why there's a very nasty situation there. It is true that the UN, and in particular UNHCR, are making a huge effort to ensure blankets, food, water and so on. In short, the possibilities that exist are being worked on, but this is without prejudice to the fact that it is a dramatic situation. A number of motions have been tabled which I shall deal with each and every one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	A question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes, because I'd like to object to this. I do not know if the Secretary of State has seen the footage of violent migrants throwing stones at the police, screaming Allahoe akbar, attacking Greek border guards and burning up on Lesbos, Chios and so on. They are all people who have been in Turkey for many years and who have not been drawn to the EU by Turkey's intervention from Syria. Those people have been there for many years and have already built up a life there and have now been put by Erdogan on buses to cross the border with Greece to kick shit there. Do you not agree with me that this is a bit of a misrepresentation of things, which is merely facilitating the sadness industry and that that is something you should not do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	I'm not at all facilitating the sadness industry. I have indicated that there is a dramatic situation there. Then I look especially at vulnerable children and at any circumstances there. That there are always annoying people who do very strange things, I like to admit. The situation is totally dramatic. I also find it dramatic that people start kicking, screaming, raging and so on. That is also a very annoying situation, but I am talking about the situation that people there have somehow been given the opportunity to go there and that it is cold and raining and that children are in danger of being trampled on. It is a good thing that the UNHCR, the United Nations, is helping to ensure that there are means there to at least meet the first need. I believe that this is also important from a humanitarian point of view, because we must not lose sight of the humanity of the process that is now taking place with the surveillance by Greece of the external borders and Turkey that will ensure that it now occurs at the external borders of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	The first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	That's the motion in part No. 596 by Mr Emiel van Dijk, in which the Dutch government is called upon not to send a penny of taxpayers' money, not even through the EU, to Turkey. Unfortunately, I must advise against that motion for Mr Van Dijk. The European Union has made a deal with Turkey, with good agreements. It is important that we ensure that Turkey abides by these agreements. There is a small point of view, in the sense that you can see that Turkey may not want to keep that deal at all and that it is, as it were, doing a pin prick towards the European Union which I reject. I say that very loudly at the same time, but at the same time we must ensure that that Turkey's deal can be maintained. It is important that the agreements that have been made in this way, in which Turkey receives Syrian refugees and gives the European Union a sum to Turkey in order to make that possible and to ensure health care and the like, remain in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	I waited for the end of the State Secretary's speech, because I thought she would go into the news report by Reuters, which states that Dutch ambassadors of the European Union have already proposed to give Turkey extra money in connection with all this blackmail. So I'd like the Secretary of State to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u40	In the context of ensuring compliance with the EU-Turkey deal, the Netherlands is open to a discussion on additional support to Turkey for the reception of refugees, including additional funding on top of the FRIT EUR 6 billion. The Netherlands prefers funding from the EU budget, with bridging funding from the current EU budget and further support from the next EU financial framework. Additional funding should be conditional on Turkish compliance with the EU-Turkey Declaration and should be part of a wider package of agreements with Turkey. Among other things, the Dutch ambassador in Brussels has proposed to provide additional funding. I just answered that. In the context of ensuring that compliance, the Netherlands is on the verge of a conversation. And that doesn't mean it's already happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u41	I note here that the Secretary of State is simply bowing down to blackmailing the Turks. You were just sitting there yesterday saying that the Deputy Ministers who spoke to you said: 'Listen, if there is no more money on the table, we will open the borders wide.' And the same night, before you were at your hotel, bus loads were brought full to the external borders. That is what you said yesterday, I say through the President. And now the Secretary of State says, "Well, there can be a few more billions to go if they stick to the deal." What insanity is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u42	I don't want to repeat the conversation we had last night at the AO. I also said this at the time, and Mr Emiel van Dijk knows that I think we should do everything in our power to ensure that the EU-Turkey declaration is maintained and that we remain in dialogue with the Turks. And if it is necessary for the follow-up to talk about additional support, then we should be open to that and we should discuss it. That's what I said last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u43	Clear. Then the motion to part No. 597.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u44	On the motion in part No. 597, in which Mr Van Dijk calls on the government not to let any lucky seeker into the Netherlands, I have to say the following. Each application for asylum shall be assessed on its merits. And if it is indeed a lucky seeker, then no asylum will be granted and there will be work on an early return to the country of origin. So I have to discourage the motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 598 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. This motion concerns the thousands of children on the Greek islands. At present, Greece is making a great effort to ensure that the external borders of the European Union are protected. There are several aspects to this. The European Commission is coordinating all this. It is the guardian of the acquis and ensures that the rules are enforced. The European Commission also looks at reception and asylum procedures. At the moment, it is not a matter of relocating. We are talking today about Greece's commitment, monitored and supported by the European Commission, to monitor the external borders of the European Union. A motion by Mr Voordewind was adopted at the time. It asked me to look with the other Member States at what we can do about it. That motion is before me and it goes less far than what Mr Jasper van Dijk is asking for in his motion today. So I have already worked and will continue to work on the implementation of Mr Voordewind's motion, but it goes less far. For that reason, I must advise against Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u45	An extra summit has been added today because of the distressing situation on the Turkish-Greek border but also on the Greek islands. We see the footage every day. It's terrible what's happening there. You are quite right to say to my colleague: it is about the children and the vulnerable people on the Turkish-Greek border. This motion concerns children on the Greek islands, part of the European Union. What do you care to do about this point this afternoon? That's how you read my motion, I'll tell the Secretary of State. Agent this point of the most vulnerable children on those islands. Will you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u46	We talked about that last night, too, and I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u47	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u48	No, no. Mr Van Dijk may have something to say. No. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u49	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u50	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u51	Was what you just said not meant for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u52	No, Mr Voordewind wanted to say something, but I didn't advise him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u53	Okay. I stopped right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u54	Yeah, this place is crazy every now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u55	I'll follow your orders immediately, but it wasn't addressed to me. We talked about it last night, too. I said the same to Mr Jasper van Dijk about the Voordewind motion that I will bring it to the attention of the Member States and raise it. But I'm not gonna change the agenda. It is now about a crisis situation at the external borders of the European Union. I will not say that we should put the issue of these children on the agenda now. Moreover, that would mean saying immediately "we take a lot of ourselves," while the rest might not do anything afterwards. It doesn't solve anything. The problem is there. I've got the Voordewind motion. I raise it with my colleagues from the other Member States. I think that's what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u56	The Secretary of State gives a very formalistic answer. Of course, the Greek islands are on the agenda this afternoon. They are part of this debate and part of the situation in difficulty. I would merely ask you to deal with the situation on the islands, particularly the situation of those children, this afternoon. You do not have to name numbers and make claims on what the Netherlands should do. I would merely ask you to raise this point because it concerns the European Union and it is a special responsibility. I assume you share that view with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u57	Again, raising the agenda means asking for the agenda to be adjusted and this point put on it. When it comes to the question about the environment, there is always a question about it, and I would like to say it for sure, but in the spirit of Mr Voordewind's motion which was adopted earlier. In that spirit, I'm willing to do that. So that is what I am doing when I ask around whether we are going to get to the table, with those kind of lyrics. Once again, I would like to raise it in the spirit of Mr Voordewind's motion. I must advise against the literal text of Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion, but I have now said how I will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u58	Clear. I actually want to move on very quickly to the next debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u59	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u60	If you could comment briefly and pointfully on the following motions, I would appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes. Then there is Mr Hiddema's motion for a resolution. 599 on Article 25 of the Schengen Borders Code and border controls. I must tell you that this is not currently the case in the Netherlands, but all options are open. We always have to look at what the situation is like at some point, but it is not at the moment. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Then there is Mr Hiddema's motion for a resolution. 600 on buses, where the point is that Greece deserves support. Greece deserves support and also receives support from the European Commission. 700 million has been committed. I think I can discourage the motion for that reason. After all, it is already being done. I come to the last motion by Mr Hiddema, the motion in part No. 601. It states that, after all these years, Turkey has not turned out to be a 'far friend' or a 'good neighbour' for Greece. We are being asked not to grant financial aid to Turkey as long as Erdogan is in power. I said earlier that it is important that we work hard to maintain the EU-Turkey declaration and to ensure that we move forward in that respect and that we move forward. This means that the European Union will also have to comply with the EU-Turkey declaration. And that means that there is also financial support. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u62	Clear. So much for this debate. I thank the Secretary of State for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-3.u63	We are voting on these six motions today. The votes will take place at the beginning of the afternoon meeting. We shall therefore be voting on these motions later.
