ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u1	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Jansen on his maiden speech. I would add that his input was in line with the tradition of the medical-ethical debates here. In terms of tone and atmosphere, they are always a bit different in character than otherwise. We saw that again this morning. For example, the SP reached out to the coalition through an amendment. VVD'ers complimented the SP conditions. The parties, also from the opposition, said out loud that the minister could speak out more often. I don't get that invitation every day either: an encouragement to more interviews. Mrs. Dijkstra said that you should especially count your blessings. All kinds of beautiful things happen during those medical-ethical debates. But much more serious: it draws the care with which we deal with medical-ethical dilemmas. There is more room for dilemmas and perhaps more curiosity about other people's arguments. These are all very big questions and we take small steps each time. We do this carefully and carefully. I believe that this is in line with what Mr Jansen had to say. Also this morning, and now this afternoon, it is about: how far does protection extend? That's a big question. When does freedom become freedom? That's a big question, too. How much space is there to use human action to prevent suffering? How much space is there for that? Those are all big questions. Within those big questions, we are indeed taking small steps this afternoon. In fact, the coalition agreement is similar. That is the task of four very different parties with which the cabinet has to deal when it comes to medical-ethical choices. The coalition agreement has commissioned that all medical-ethical questions be examined on the basis of a review framework with three partial questions: what is the state of medical-scientific research, what is the state of medical-ethical reflection and has there been social discussion and sufficient political reflection? That is also the lens that has been used to look at this issue. I'll start this afternoon with the part of the bill that's about allowing sex choice. For the second block, I chose the part of the bill that deals with quality assurance. The third block contains the questions that were not so much about this bill, but about adjacent issues, also in relation to the social dialogues that are being conducted on this issue, for example embryo culture and carriership. It's all the questions that touch on that. Finally, I will deal with the amendments. Mr. Chairman. Selection by gender is prohibited by the Embryo Act. A desire of parents to have a boy or a girl is not honored, because we do not want children to be reduced to just the object of parents' desires and desires. That was mentioned by some of you. However, it is different when there is a serious medical reason. I refer, for example, to Duchenne's disease. For someone who knows that this disease occurs in his family, the possibility of pre-implantation genetic diagnostics, or pgd, can be an outcome. In Duchenne's disease, which occurs only in boys, it is allowed to select via pgd embryos of the female sex, so that the child does not become ill. You can do that now. The Embryowet allows sex choice to prevent a severe hereditary disorder when it comes to a condition that is sexually bound. We find this admissible because of the underlying motivation. The same wish and the same motivation are at the root of the present legislative proposal. There are diseases that do not only manifest themselves in boys or girls, but where one sex is more at risk of the disease than the other sex. The best known example is the presence of a mutation in one of the BRCA genes, which can affect both men and women. As a result, both men and women have an increased risk of breast cancer, but for women the risk is many times greater than for men, with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. In this situation, it is still preferable not to select by sex but to select embryos that have not been affected by the mutation in question. On the basis of mutation detection, embryos that have not been affected by the disease can be selected. Then the sex doesn't matter either. With all healthy embryos, an IVF attempt can be made. That is the right thing to do now, and it will always be the first step after this legislative amendment. Sometimes this option does not exist because, for example, there are no embryos without that mutation. Or, for example, if the attempts made with healthy embryos have not led to continued pregnancies and there are only embryos left that have been affected with that gene. In this situation, you could use sex selection as a follow-up step to reduce the risk of breast cancer. There is therefore no need to create new embryos in this situation. Within the embryos already established for the regular PGD, additional use could be made of the embryos of the male sex affected, whereas they should be discarded in the current situation. The other example where sex selection may be an option is the untreatable eye disorder LHON. Here too, there is an unequal opportunity between boys and girls to actually be sick. This disease is passed on by the mother to all her children. That means that at the moment a regular PGD is not possible for LHON. All embryos are always affected. Only by gender selection can the risk of the disease be reduced. If we do not allow sex choice to be applied in that described situation, this would mean that in some situations parents will not be able to reduce the risk of a serious condition. It is precisely by offering this choice that serious suffering can be avoided, without compromising the protection of the embryo. I would like to make that introduction because many questions have been asked which touch upon it and which I can better answer by putting it in this context. I'll fill that in with the PGD procedure in a moment. Maybe it's wise to do that right away. In doing so, I take a number of questions from, among others, the Christian Union. Because later on, it will go according to a procedure similar to that in force today. Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question about this, but also Mrs Dijkstra. In order to understand this change, I would like to stress that the current procedure for PGD is surrounded with great care. There's not just going to be a PGD. Whether a pair is eligible is weighed by a multidisciplinary team on the basis of the PGD Scheme. This team should include at least one ethicist, besides, for example, a clinical geneticist and, if appropriate, an oncologist. If PGD is requested for a condition or disease that has not previously been eligible for PGD, thus extending the scope of application, this will be submitted to the PGD National Indicative Committee. It has a similar composition and checks whether the application is within the limits of what is ethically and socially acceptable. So we have already defined this from the political framework. Because a decision framework has been provided to the PGD Scheme, in which a number of criteria have been developed. These criteria relate to the severity and nature of the disease, i.e. the extent to which it occurs, its severity and the question of how early in life that disease will manifest itself. These are the questions about the nature and severity of the disease. It also covers the treatment options of the disease, the additional medical criteria, such as possible contraindications for an IVF, and other psychological and moral factors. This is the review framework which is already in force for PGD and which has already been established. That, of course, continues to apply. Both the multidisciplinary team, which evaluates each individual case, as well as the PGD National Indicative Committee, which looks at new indications within that scope, adheres to the decision framework that we have established. In that decision-making framework, the Penetration............................................................................................................................................................................................ In other words, it is about the incidence of the disease in people who have that abnormal gene, so how often that disease occurs in those people. If the incidence is higher, the condition is more likely to qualify for pgd. If this amendment is adopted, the difference in incidence between boys and girls will be taken into account in the same way. So the bigger the difference, the sooner the condition is eligible for pgd. This is in line with various questions from different groups. We have been asked why there is no exhaustive list. That's one way to ask that question. How is the level of inequality actually determined acceptable? This is also a question raised by the Council of State, which has been raised in several speeches in the written report. An exhaustive list assumes that this data is static, but that data is not static. This is evident from the practice of the current pgd. That's the special thing: you can already make a total sex-related disease part of pgd. That's okay. But also in the case of this sex-related disease, over time, we have been increasingly able to see by mutation detection of genes whether or not a particular embryo has been affected. Even now, you're getting less and less into the question of whether we should choose between a boy or a girl, because you can let that question go ahead by gene mutation detection. This means that the current testing practice is not static either. If you look at the number of diseases that have ever been eligible for pgb over time, I think it is about 150 diseases. Most of these diseases are n=1, n=2 or n=3, so they are almost non-existent, but they have been considered for this at some point. But if you look at how many times it is still necessary that an embryo is actually selected for slaughter, then that number decreases very quickly. This has to do with the fact that we in the Netherlands are getting better and better in gene mutation detection, so you never get to the question "well, if we don't know for sure in advance, then we have to choose for a boy or a girl." That will also play a role in this new situation. I think the way in which this procedure has been set up is indicative, first and foremost by the care with which this procedure is designed. So I am convinced that people are really looking at whether there are other ways of preventing you from getting to the question of whether we should choose between a boy and a girl. We know and consider that this is a serious question, which should not be lightly addressed. I think that reflects very well the political debate. The second element that is significant is the extent to which the state of science also determines the way you have to look at it. This can be seen in the extent to which gene mutation detection can prevent that choice between a boy and a girl. But I think you can also see that in terms of the extent to which you come to a coloration of the applicable criteria. So, for example, it is about the nature and treatment of the disease. Those aren't static data. The state of science and the extent to which one can predict in what way a disease will or will not be hereditary, and in what way a disease that is genetically determined can be expressed, are also not statically given. That's where science moves on. That is also the reason why we have opted in this legislative proposal for a design that is in line with pgd. It is not the case that politics cannot follow that, because the PGD annual report is sent to the Chamber every year. On this basis one can very well follow the way in which the application of pgd takes place. If one could see that there is an undesirable extension or an undesirable way of dealing with the criteria, then politics could raise this issue. That's okay, I guess. But I sincerely believe that this is not the case, precisely because of the careful conduct of the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u3	I think it is a clear explanation from the Minister, but he quickly crossed the point that there must be a difference between the odds between boys and girls, in the extreme case that this choice is necessary and desirable. I had said, like a number of colleagues, that this is still very general. How is that weighed? How are these conversations going? How big is that difference between boys and girls? And how much does that weigh compared to the other criteria? There are several criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u4	There must, of course, be a clearly unequal gender incidence. But what I think is more important than that, is that this isn't the only way you look at it. All these other elements still have a role to play. So you look at the severity and nature of the disease, the extent to which the disease occurs, the age at which the disease manifests, etc. All these elements weigh in addition to the uneven gender incidence. Then there is also the possibility of looking in a regular pgd-course to see if you cannot achieve the goal by mutation detection in a way other than by gender selection, namely to prevent that serious suffering. In fact, this is the way you should imagine it. The scope of application of this legislative proposal is slightly widened, but the way it is going remains exactly the same. The way in which these criteria are weighted also remains exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u5	I understand that, but that still is not quite an answer to my question. I understand that you only have to do it in the extreme and that other things also have to be taken into account, such as the severity of the disease, etc. Let me tell you by heart: between the two diseases that are now eligible for this, there is quite a difference in gender incidence. So there's just a lot of uncertainty left. It must be a substantial difference, but what is "essential"? Is that more than 40% or is 8% enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u6	What I am underlining is that it cannot be cut with scissors. Because that would suggest that all these other criteria should be weighed, also in relation to each other, but that this is a mathematical application. So it cannot be put down to that extent, in that way. There must be a substantial difference in gender incidence. For all sizes of application, you shouldn't want to answer this question at all if you can also do it by gene mutation detection. That is true anyway, but you have these criteria to weigh against others. In the case of hereditary breast cancer it is actually very clear; then it is 90-10. In the case of LHON it's a bit closer together; then it's called "then" out of my head. For now, these are actually the only diseases in the picture where there really is a difference in gender incidence. In the original treatment, in my opinion, in 1998 I believe that none of us was there, except Mr Van der Staaij, of course, were even mentioned as some diseases that would be mentioned. Duchenne has been mentioned and, among other things, haemophilia has been mentioned. In the meantime, this has also become apparent in a number of other diseases. I'm just saying this isn't a static list. Also the degree of inequality of that gender incidence.................................................................................................................................................. So the cabinet deliberately didn't want to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u7	I understand. You can't cut this and say it should be over 25% or so. I understand that, but I'm just wondering if that discussion is further specified, which we didn't know yet. But I understand that what is "essential" will be determined by that committee and by the multidisciplinary team. No, probably from the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u8	Yeah, by the national guidance committee. Since this is a new condition within the scope of application, the discussion will take place in the National Indicative Committee, always in relation to other criteria. If the answer is "yes, this should be possible," then the answer is always "yes, if..." Then this weighting, also in relation to other factors and other criteria, is very well indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u9	Another informative question is to be able to understand exactly what the widening of the scope of application is. For example, in hereditary breast cancer, there is even a very large group where pgd treatment is already taking place. But I didn't run into LHON. It seems that there is a difference between the two diseases now mentioned and that there is therefore a new application in relation to this disease. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u10	Yeah, that's right. That has to do with the extent to which the disease is transmitted. In the case of hereditary breast cancer, there is already a possibility of looking at an embryo by gene mutation detection. This makes it possible to use only the "healthy" embryos via pgd even now. With LHON that is not possible, because that gene mutation is always passed on. Only the extent to which this gene mutation is expressed differs between boys and girls. In LHON, therefore, there is something different there than in hereditary breast cancer. I think I've answered some of the questions that touched on this, at least. Mrs Dijkstra of D66 asked whether the multidisciplinary team and the National Indicative Committee could in future consider diseases in which an uneven gender incidence is also detected. The answer is: yes, in the same way it is happening now and which has also led to the extension of the list in recent years. In the meantime you can see that a sex choice is no longer necessary to do mutation detection. The SGP asked a number of questions. How is the difference in appreciation of severe suffering taken into account? How do you measure severe suffering? What's that? Isn't that something that parents appreciate very differently? You cannot define what is severe suffering or what is a serious condition. There is indeed a difference in perception. Thus, when it comes to a new indication, the National Indicative Committee will make a general statement, including on the basis of what is known in the scientific literature and the experience of others who have had this disease. For all diseases for which a pgd treatment has once been a pgd treatment, there is now a rather extensive list. By the way, most of these diseases are almost non-existent, i.e. one, two or three times. The overview of this type of disease can be found in the annual report PGD Nederland, which is sent to the Chamber. Soon the annual report for 2018 will be published as well. That's an annual report that's gonna take a while. But we are trying to keep our grip on it through the annual reports. But suffering is always weighed in relation to the other test criteria. So the degree of suffering is never an absolute criterion, as no criterion is absolute for a kind of right to pgd. There is no such thing, and we should not make it so. There will therefore always be a review and a weighting. The SGP says: you cannot, reasoning from the protection of life, put an end to the early existence of human embryos. Isn't this about quality of life? You could say that if you look at the Embryowet, you can see that there is a balance between protection of life on the one hand and other important values on the other. Health and quality of life are important values. That is also why the Embryowet allows scientific research under strict conditions. The prevention of serious hereditary disorders in children, or the reduction of their risk, is considered to be a legitimate objective to maintain the balance in the law as it has been found. That is also what I wanted to highlight in my introduction. I am actually talking about the balance that is already in the law. The prevention of severe suffering fits the balance of the Embryowet. Then there are questions about autism, which have already been raised in the report. I recognize those questions. The theme of autism comes from the evaluation of the Embryowet, so those questions have been raised before. But I have actually always regarded them as somewhat academic, because I think it is quite far from the intended scope of application of this law. It might also be a question of testing: yes, but could it ever come between us, could it ever apply to that? Honestly, I can't imagine that now, or just not. It has to do with the way autism occurs. That goes from very heavy forms of autism to very light ones that have never been referred to as autism until a few years ago. The spectrum is so wide that I can't imagine that we're ever going to qualify it as a serious disease that you can predict in advance the degree of seriousness and the degree of inheritance, not partly and in any case not in its entirety. I honestly cannot imagine that with the current way in which autism is written and spoken of. So, frankly, I see this as a rather theoretical discussion. But do we have an exhaustive list of what should and should not be covered? That's the other side of the spectrum. No, we don't have it, and we don't want it, just because the state of science is progressing. That is why we do not write down already: for that and that condition this should never and never apply. In the heredity survey, really new discoveries are still being made. We really don't know everything about autism, but in order to explain something within this scope of application, you need the combination of heredity proven, unequal gender incidence demonstrated and the expected severity demonstrated when there is inheritance. And that is quite separate from the question of how serious this suffering actually is. That is why I think it is rather theoretical and I cannot imagine that it will ever fall within the scope of this law. Who do we achieve with this bill? That is a question from Mrs Tellegen. Mrs Ploumen asked, I thought, a similar question: for how many people is this an extension of the possibilities that we do not now have? Only a few new couples per year will be eligible for gender selection. For mutation on the BRCA gene, pgd is therefore already possible on the basis of mutation detection. The change is a result if there are no embryos without the mutation gene. So if all the embryos that are there are a gene set that contains that mutated gene, this is an outcome. But if you can do it in a different way by gene mutation detection, there is already the possibility to continue with the healthy embryos. So in a large number of cases, pgd is already possible with that breast cancer gene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u11	There is another question from Mrs Ploumen on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you for that answer. I had asked another supplementary question, namely whether the Minister could also estimate how many couples or how many people would have been helped if the Labour Party amendment were to be adopted. With that I go back to the law of then Minister Schippers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u13	In the third block, I deal with the social discussions and other topics that need to be addressed. Do you mind if I come back to it? I'd like to concentrate on what's in this law, if that's okay with you. Then we'll save that question for later. Mr Hijink also had a question about this, but I think I have answered this question. I think that answers the questions that affect sex choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u14	In replying to questions from various groups, the Minister states that in all cases of hereditary breast cancer or Leber's disease, if gene mutation detection has not been possible, you are not entitled to pgd as a last resort. I understand that a weighting is being made every time, but I am trying to imagine something more concrete. If you have as a woman that hereditary gene for breast cancer, then there is a chance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u15	That you don't qualify for pgd after all. Yes, that's because the weighting is made in the personal situation. The same applies to IVF. Personal factors and a person's situation are involved in that weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u16	I'm trying to imagine something about that. When can you be locked out of there as a woman? I can imagine that this could cause unrest for women who have such a genetic gene. They think, "Maybe I'm in a situation where I'm not entitled to it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u17	It has a relationship with the IVF criteria. I'm gonna take a look at the wings, too. The profession has set itself a review framework for when people are or are not eligible for IVF. I can't reproduce the criteria right now, but I know that there's always a conversation with IVF parents about whether they're sure it's appropriate in their situation. For example, it has to do with the psychic state of parents. That's one of the weighting factors. They're still on the table. Look, what we need to avoid is that we are going to try to make weighting criteria absolute and that we are going to have a kind of right to pgd. There's no right to pgd. There is always a weighting by a multidisciplinary team. That will also be assessed in relation to the IVF criteria. Inside, a personal weighing and weighing is made. Perhaps it would be a good idea in the second period to go a little further into how the criteria relate to each other. Then I'll go to quality control. That is a second and fairly separate element in this bill. This therefore concerns the use of sex cells and embryos for quality control purposes. The Embryowet does not, strictly speaking, provide any basis for this, but the same institutions are obliged to do quality control under the Safety and Quality of Body Material Act. This is also in relation to the European directive on this point. If this is not the case, institutions are not in a position to guarantee the quality of fertility care. The use for quality purposes may involve different types of use, such as the practice of the operations by new employees and the validation of equipment or the testing of culture media. Quality assurance sometimes requires the use of sex cells and embryos. On the basis of the proposed amendment, it concerns the use of residual material, i.e. sex cells and embryos which would otherwise have to be destroyed in accordance with the Embryote Act. The legislative proposal creates a basis for the use of the residual material for monitoring the quality of fertility care. This is a necessary adjustment, which also reflects the quality assurance required for the provision of good care. Mr Jansen of the PVV asked if this was also defined for what it is necessary. Is the list contained in the explanatory memorandum correct? The answer is yes. The training of employees, the validation of equipment and the testing of liquids are indeed the type of quality control envisaged and envisaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u18	As a result, we have asked how quality assurance is currently taking place, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yeah, I was ready for that. That's a fair question. Quality assurance is already being carried out, using residual material, such as embryos that have stopped parts during the procedure, ova that have not been fertilized or embryos with genetic disease. But there's actually no basis for the Embryo Act at the moment. However, the same professionals were already obliged to do so, not only under the European Quality Directive but also under the Safety and Quality of Body Material Act. Hence the importance of reconciling the conflict between these two legal bases. That was done through this bill. Mrs Ellemeet asks whether it is true that there is no need to give explicit consent to the obligation to comply with quality assurance. That's right. The extent to which institutions can comply with quality legislation is difficult to depend on the degree of willingness of parents to consent. So that's why we didn't do it that way. Mrs Dik-Faber asked when this conversation would be held with parents. Shouldn't parents know very well that there is the use of residual material or embryos for quality control and that this is one of the uses of residual embryos? I understand that, actually. In fact, I would like to combine her question with Mrs Dijkstra's question to ask the profession whether this still requires an adaptation of the model rules, of the way in which work is carried out. I think I'm gonna combine those questions. I am indeed going to pass that question on to the profession. I am referring to Mrs Faber's question. Let us assume that it makes sense to have this conversation at the very beginning of the journey and to be completely clear towards parents. The question then is: if you want to do so, does that still require an amendment to the regulation? I would add that I assume that the implementation practice is such that this type of conversation takes place at the very beginning of the journey. It seems logical not to do this after the treatment, but before, if the choice has yet to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u20	I welcome the Minister's response to the questions raised by me and Mrs Dijkstra. When... Well, maybe not when, but how is the Chamber still informed about this? I'm very curious about the conversation he's going to have. I'd like to get a note or something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u21	I get that. I honestly do not know at what rate that can be done, but I will of course admit that I am informing the Chamber again. In a subsequent progress report, it seems useful to me to let you know what the reaction is, or to let you know when the reaction is coming. I think that's how I'm supposed to do it. Then there is Mrs Dijkstra's question. The present legislative proposal defines quality assurance, she says, more limited than the European directive, because it states that it must be actions related to treatment processes or diagnostic processes in reproductive medicine. Then why this containment? In that we have actually with the formulation a bit connected to the system that we will also apply in the Body Material Control Act. They've been working on that for a very long time. I once said very bravely in the First Chamber about the Wzsd that that was a law that had been working on for nine years, but I understand that it has been on the board for 19 years, of the same person who is also working on it. No, it's not, but we've been working on it for a long time, because it's such an incredibly difficult law. So we really want to be connected to the scope of the target for which it is intended. Precisely because the current situation is so diffuse for which residual material, body material, may or may not be used, we found it logical to join. So that's why here, in this law, for this application, you've seen this limitation in the scope. It has also been remarkably noted; I must add that. Can quality assurance also contribute to a lower number of residual embryos? The aim of quality monitoring is to ensure that the procedures are carried out in the best possible way. However, most patients choose that all ova are available to fertilize. Quality monitoring then ensures that there is an optimization of the chances of success, so that there may also be more leftover embryos. It could be. So it's not that easy to estimate in advance the extent to which this affects the use of residual embryos. At the same time, you can say that these improved chances of success will no longer require a new IVF attempt, where a number of residual embryos will arise; that is something you can avoid. This in turn prevents additional use of residual embryos. So the net effect isn't that easy to predict. In a number of cases, there will be more, but you will avoid new treatment, because you can assume that effectiveness will improve as the quality of treatment improves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u22	Maybe the Minister is still working on this, but I would like to add something to what he just said. Thank you very much for the answer when it comes to why this additional demand was chosen. I also asked the Minister whether he could confirm that, for example, the training of new embryologists is covered by that diagnostic or treatment process. I understood for a moment that he was talking about the training of new employees, that this is indeed answered in the affirmative. Just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u23	Yes, skill training for employees is called quality assurance; absolutely. Then there is the question of the Christian Union: should we not strive to minimize the number of remaining embryos? That wish is very understandable. There are indeed patients who choose to create only one embryo at a time. There's only one downside to that. This means freezing eggs, one of which is fertilized each time. This does not improve the quality of the eggs. So I also understand that by far most patients choose to fertilize all the eggs in order to maximise the risk of pregnancy. This consideration is for patients themselves and that conversation is also being conducted with patients. I don't want to go in there. That's actually a choice that patients have. Why was the concept of residual material chosen? That's what the SGP's asking. In its opinion on the legislative proposal, the Advisory Section of the Council of State recommended, as an editorial comment, that Article 9a be formulated in such a way that it is clear that only residual material is used for quality assurance purposes. In response to this remark, Article 9a explicitly refers to residual material. A definition of this is therefore included in the first paragraph. There's no substance behind it. It has actually been a editorial comment from the Council of State, which we have taken on board. Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have answered the questions raised on quality assurance. Mr. Chairman. Then the more adjacent topics, also in relation to the dialogues. We had a general discussion not so long ago, in which we discussed the social dialogues in detail. I remember Mrs Tellegen saying: I have not been mentioned recently about germ-track modification along the hockey field. I had the same experience. Also with me sometimes a Saturday morning passes by the line without me being talked about, for example, embryo culture. That is a pity, because it is a nice subject to discuss Saturday morning. It is not always easy to turn it into a very lively social dialogue. That's right. That also changes a bit by subject. Sometimes the subject is very technical. Before this law, I had to remember what I had learned about genetics in high school. This applies to many of these subjects. The level of knowledge must be very good in order to be able to conduct an adequate dialogue. During the general consultation, I undertook to have you explain very clearly how we do it by dialogue. How do we try to do justice to the level of knowledge required by each dialogue, try to reach as large a group as possible, knowing that there is often a very limited group interested in it, and try to make it clear as clearly as possible when what discussion is taking place? We try to work that out for you as best we can by dialogue. That letter is to be expected in February. That commitment stands. Although I understand very well what you mean, I would ask you to continue the debate on the basis of the elaboration of that commitment, because I have the opportunity, much better than in this debate, to explain how we have tried very carefully to make it as lively and broad a dialogue as possible. That's one. The second is that several groups, both coalition and opposition, have asked if I should not manifest myself a little more. Mrs Ploumen, in particular, is eagerly looking forward to my presence in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u24	On this subject!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u25	Oh, on this subject! Look, that's a limitation of the scope of this encouragement: from now on, I can only talk about germ-track modification in the newspaper. But seriously, I understand that remark. It is also true that in the cabinet you can very well enter into a social debate and get going, namely by contributing to that debate and once in a while throwing a stone into the pond. Actually, I'd really like to do that. However, I am rather cautious to do so on these issues. This is because these are particularly important subjects that I believe I, as a representative of the cabinet, which has to relate to the outcome, should not close that social dialogue in advance by saying too clearly that we should either turn left or turn right. That's one. Two. If I were to do so, I would have to make sure, as you know, that in this coalition it is sometimes balancing between the more liberal and the Christian parts. As a cabinet member, I am not a party representative. As a cabinet member, I have to be a representative of the cabinet, which must know that the outcome fits in with the government agreement, in which there has been a very detailed discussion of medical-ethical issues. About the most important procedural agreement made in the coalition agreement is that the third part of the medical-ethical review framework is also passed in peace. That is: has the social debate taken place and is there sufficient political reflection? In that relationship, I would not think it wise for me to tell myself at a start-up meeting on embryo cultivation what should come out after all these meetings. But at some point, of course, the cabinet has to relate to its outcome. That's true, but it's in the right order of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think that the Minister is failing himself here, because he could of course intervene very well in the social debate without immediately recognizing colour or determining a position. With the way in which the Minister has just answered our questions, he shows that he is able to answer questions that are not very easy in a very clear way. That is precisely what my question is about: the social component of this dialogue. There is a very small group of people in the Netherlands who know what it is about, but it is about something. I would like us to find a way of conducting this dialogue outside that group of scientists and experts. It would be a nice thing for me if the Minister could take the word "social" in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u27	Yes, I understand that question very well, with the remark that on one subject it is easier to do so than on the other. I suspect, for example, that the talks are not really a social debate because we did not find a debate appropriate to the final phase of life, the theme of life completed, euthanasia and so on much easier to lead to a real social conversation than that of embryoculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u28	I understand that, but the Minister just made the point that a discussion about germ-track modification is not the first thing you think about along a football field at 8:30. That is precisely why I believe that we should think about better ways of addressing it, precisely because the government also has a duty to inform people. There's so much fiction about what's going on here right now that I think the cabinet should think about how we get to the people that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u29	Yes, very once. Especially in the case of germ orbital modification, that is very much on the agenda. There is also considerable investment in this area. I am going to explain this in great detail, with the emphasis on the word'social', in order to highlight the social translation of this type of dialogue, so that it is not just a conversation between scientists. That comes with the February commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u30	I understand the Minister's considerations very well. I certainly did not call on him to close the debate immediately. I did call on him to interfere in the debate in a way that gives people information about what is at stake. I think that we are trying to make it clear to each other, without only speaking in technical terms, what the issues are. As far as I am concerned, the Minister should do the same. He would also show how important the subject is for him and the cabinet. He also does so with subjects that are not even part of his portfolio, take migration. Hence my slight surprise that he is so reluctant here. Once again, I am not trying to force him into a position that would be too faint, but he is expressing his opinion on the dilemmas and the opportunities he sees. There should be opportunities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u31	Sure. I understand that question, but I will explain to you where my deliberately chosen caution comes from. I just explained that. You may have seen it coming back nicely in the debate Mr Van der Molen had with Mr Hijink on his amendment. There came those arguments about how to look at the theme "embryo culture," I think, well along. On the one hand, the discussion on embryo cultivation always says: you must not want to instrumentalize the cultivation of embryos. That is what Mr Van der Molen emphasizes. On the other hand, Mr Hijink says, and I think you are on that trail with more members of the Chamber, that you should also want to see that it is the question why you should not be doing that type of investigation. We are already growing embryos, and we are already researching embryos, because this is allowed under a number of conditions. So we are doing that research to improve the outcome of the IVF treatment, which we had already made possible. That's what we want to influence. I understand that, but those are the arguments. What if I gave an interview like that and you moved into the journalist I was supposed to do an interview like that with? I think you would ask the follow-up question: yes, so where should it go? Do we choose to have one prevail or do we choose to have the other prevail? I'm gonna move on pretty quickly to the outcome of that. That is precisely why I have dealt with it with caution so far. At the same time, the cabinet has to relate to the outcome of this discussion. I am, once again, not the representative of a political party, but the representative of a cabinet that must come out with at least the four parties that support this coalition. I will when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u32	Obviously, I'm looking at something else. I will also put forward a proposal in a moment to put the Minister on a slightly different path. I have a second question about the implications of the results of that dialogue. I imagine that given the nature of the issue, they will not be digital. The Minister is keen to wait for these results and not to influence them too much, but at the same time he also says: I am dealing with the frameworks of the coalition agreement. These are still valid, if I have the timetable in mind, even after that dialogue has been concluded. Does that mean that the results of this dialogue, whatever the considerations, will not have any influence on what this cabinet is going to propose? Is that what I actually hear the Minister say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u33	That's not what you hear me say. I have just begun to say that in this coalition there are different parties with very different backgrounds and therefore very different medical-ethical views. That is why it was discussed in great detail at the start of the coalition agreement. Furthermore, it was concluded that we actually have three questions that in the sum sum are a review framework for the way this coalition has to deal with medical-ethical questions. Big questions, small steps, you could say. In a sense, I think we're all in the game on medical-ethical themes. That is why it says, and this was also the reason why the previous cabinet's bill was withdrawn at that time, that the public debate on embryo cultivation has not yet taken place enough to lead politically to a conclusion. Originally, it was one bill, but that part of the bill was therefore withdrawn. Actually, of course, a whole new bill has been made. But that was one of the reasons to withdraw that bill. Furthermore, it was decided not to come forward with a new proposal before that social dialogue was concluded. That has become part of the government agreement and that has also become part of the medical ethics note. So that's how we're gonna do it. This dialogue will be concluded sometime in the spring, and I believe that it is announced in the medical ethics note that we will come forward with a proposal on how to deal with the outcome by the summer of 2020. I know how much the planning of subjects and the way in which the cabinet relates to the outcome of this type of dialogue are part of the agreements made, including in the government agreement. They also have to relate to the main meeting on how to deal with those three review questions on medical-ethical issues. And of course, I'm sticking to that seamlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u34	Shortly my last question. I'm gonna ask the question anyway. Of course, it is not inconceivable that the outcome of this dialogue is that people see room for the cultivation of embryos within very strict frameworks, as proposed in my amendment, for example. It is not unthinkable that that is the outcome. Does that mean that the cabinet will consider that? Or is that a matter of course dismissed? I'm just trying to figure out how the outcome of that dialogue will relate to what's in the coalition agreement, if that's the outcome of the dialogue: take the next step. Does that outcome still have relevance? Or is that going to be pushed further forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u35	No. The answer is: of course that outcome has relevance. Otherwise, we should not have done this social dialogue. In the coalition agreement it has been said that medical-ethical questions should always be viewed through three glasses. Firstly, has the medical scientific necessity been sufficiently demonstrated? Two: has the medical-ethical reflection taken place adequately? A third element of this review framework, a third one to look through, is: has there been a social dialogue and sufficient political reflection? So a hunch jump to the solution, which you like to do in a lot of files, you should not want to do with medical-ethical questions. That's the common ground of this coalition. The last step, that social dialogue, did not actually take place sufficiently on this issue, on the issue of embryo farming, before a proposal was put forward. You can find all kinds of things and maybe you can look at them differently, but that was at least the agreement between four parties at the start. That is why the government agreement states that the cabinet will not make a proposal to this effect before the social dialogue is conducted and that social dialogue is conducted. So if you ask me whether the outcome will be taken seriously into account in the decision of the Cabinet as a proposal to your Chamber, then the answer is, of course, yes. Is this a linear outcome, so is it tarfed "what do you think, then we're gonna do it"? No, it's not like that. But it is taken seriously, like the government agreement, which also means seriously in the review framework as it has been put on paper. But I'm not getting ahead of myself either. Your question is: is it seriously considered, is it indeed taken into account and is it an important factor in the government's assessment? The answer is "of course." Otherwise, we wouldn't have gotten that assignment from the coalition in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u36	What we, as PVV, are very afraid of is that this social dialogue is much more an expert dialogue. Is it not useful to make a cut so that we actually have the expert dialogue, but also try to start this conversation with people in society, perhaps at a different level in terms of language choice, so that we can get a better view of how the population looks at this? Isn't that a much better way to handle it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u37	That's a very good way of dealing with it. I know exactly what you mean. That is actually the criticism I hear from a number of other groups: are we actually doing enough? Perhaps it is more a question? This can be done partly by raising the level of knowledge or promoting the level of knowledge as part of the social dialogue, and partly by choosing a different type of conversation or location. Every time we asked a party to establish this dialogue, that was also part of the mission. Well, one day it'll work out a little better than the other. We just have to be honest about that. I indicated in the previous general consultation: give me the opportunity to work out, per dialogue, what we can do about it and what we can do about it and how we can do about it. We'll do that on the basis of how the dialogues are now being designed. Then we can continue the conversation. So in February, the letter will follow. I promised it to Mrs Tellegen, I think, in the previous AO. Then we can continue that debate. But I totally get your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u38	I am pleased with this remark, because it prevents us from wanting to move on in a somewhat hasty way. I get that. I understand very well that we want to do this right and take care of it quickly, but in a well-considered way. I think with this addition we'd better go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u39	In the meantime, the conversation has gone a little further. I hear how the Minister is currently responding to the questions about himself interfering in that social dialogue. The Minister is very capable of explaining in a simple and clear way where the dilemmas lie, what the right information is and what it really is about. I'd like to see that part of him. That is why I have just welcomed Mrs Ploumen's question. I think it is very good to explain that the Minister has no choice but to follow a cabinet position, which is the result of a government agreement between such different parties. I think it's important that he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mrs Dijkstra once again gives me encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yeah, enjoy it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u42	I have just explained my hesitation. I have also heard your encouragement to do so. I still think it is appropriate to choose a good time in this dialogue and also the right words and the right direction. I merely point out that my consideration of deliberately dimming has been to give this dialogue the opportunity and scope to be a real dialogue rather than being reactive to the position that a minister has already taken. You also don't want people to think: if you're already out, what are we doing here? Of course you don't want to. But I understand your encouragement. I will come back to that in February. I'll surprise you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u43	Well, I'm curious. We're repeating ourselves a little bit, but I think it's important. I hear the Minister say that he should ultimately relate to the results of that social dialogue. I told the Minister that this dialogue must be social and representative. Because a dialogue that has taken place between experts, of which we know the outcome. We could now draw conclusions from that. In other words, my encouragement to actually find ways of involving society in the debate, as Mr Jansen has just said, is important. I do not want the cabinet to say that the dialogue has not got off the ground, but this is the conclusion and this is what the policy consequences look like. At the same time, I do not want it to lead to delays, as Mrs Ploumen has just expressed all her concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u44	No, exactly. As a coalition in the coalition agreement, we gave a clear mandate to the cabinet. I have to say: as a coalition, you have given a clear mandate to the cabinet. I received that assignment after I was asked for this role. I started working on that assignment. In that mission, it is very well stated how this coalition wishes to deal with medical-ethical themes. This coalition has also taken responsibility for this in relation to the wide noises in the Chamber. Where it is true that some parties ask if it can't be a bit louder and say: you used to be on this line and now you seem to have agreed to this line. To be honest, I also like that about the medical-ethical debates we are having here. There is rarely a subject on which you dare to say so transparently, aloud as a political party: "Look, this is what I originally think. If I could read you my party program, this is what you hear. At the same time, I thought it was a good idea to come to this agreement with the coalition parties, knowing that they started from a very different starting point." Like you both just did. So transparently explaining "this is the proposal we found each other on, but this is what I actually find," you rarely see in coalition agreements. If you want to discuss medical-ethical themes in a good way, you want the content to come into its own enough and you want to look at all sides of the matter before you take steps, then it is very healthy to deal with them in that way. That's exactly what I like to do. That was the reason for my initial hesitation. It is not initially in the sense of: that hesitation is completely gone now that I have heard your encouragements. It has been a conscious choice not to go through a porcelain cabinet like an elephant at the start of these social dialogues. In that I made a conscious choice. I hear your encouragement and at least I have made an agreement with you that dialogues must be truly social, with all the limitations that we can think of. I think so, too. This also sometimes has to do with increasing the level of knowledge, with seeking other stages to conduct that debate and with the degree to which you yourself draw attention to it. In this way, I would also like to close my February letter to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u45	In my view, we must be careful not to start pretending that the social debate and the dialogues have only begun when this cabinet is in office. Mr Van der Staaij and I have both referred to the debates on the Embryo Act and on embryo selection, which have already taken place at the beginning of this century. That was almost 20 years ago. It is not that nothing has happened in all this time and that we have only now started to talk about the options, the possibilities and the risks. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not also a form of parking policy to start a whole series of dialogues again. There is, of course, a time when, as a parliament, we must take stock of the long discussions that have already taken place. I would just like to ask the Minister whether he thinks this method is appropriate, namely that we should wait again for a whole series of dialogues which have actually already been conducted here in the Lower House, but also in the rest of society. There must also be a moment when we, as politicians, are able to take stock of the situation: these are all the views that exist, and that is why we are now going on to consider them. There's got to be one of these moments, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u46	Of course. There's gotta be a moment like this sometime. But I think it is a sensible line that the coalition has made these agreements. I also feel at home that you do things in the right order, that you first have a social discussion before you come to any decisions and that you take carefully and carefully the steps you have to take. I think that's wise. You can also come to another political choice. Of course you can. I think that the line chosen by this coalition is sensible, namely to keep that order and not to take political decision-making until after you have given the right space for a social debate. You must at least have given everyone the opportunity to interfere in that. I feel at home in that. I like that line. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u47	Okay. So the Minister says that he does not recognize himself in anyone who claims that this approach is also a form of parking policy and that it is also a way of moving a difficult discussion mainly to a next cabinet, because that is the feeling that lingers with me, and I think also with others. I think that's a shame. We should not do anything hasty; I agree directly. But I told you, we've been talking about this subject for over 20 years now. As a cabinet, but also as a coalition, you should not push back to society too much. Of course there are different opinions within society, but it is up to us here in this building, in this Chamber, to weigh those opinions and then to make sensible politics. I want to be vigilant about this, but I fear that it will be done, and that new proposals and new legislation will now be moved forward to another cabinet, because I think that is the line that has been put in place at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u48	No. I think I have already explained why I think it is important for these social dialogues to take place. If Mr Hijink means by his observation towards this coalition that if you put together a coalition that sometimes doesn't provide the space and opportunity to make some decisions that perhaps one or two parties within the coalition would have taken if they had had it all on their own, that is, of course, clip-and-ready. I don't think that's something to run from either. I think it is right to be transparent about this. I heard Mrs Tellegen and Mrs Dijkstra are extremely transparent about this. I am sure that if you had questioned the CDA and the Christian Union on that, they would have been equally transparent about why very precise agreements were made on medical ethics. This is because we have been prepared to bear government responsibility, but we find it very difficult to cross a number of medical-ethical bridges that we would prefer not to cross. Every time parties decide to become part of a coalition, they will take stock and say: these are the things I can bring into this coalition. No one in the Netherlands has it on their own; I think that is one of the beautiful things about Dutch parliamentary democracy. Nobody's in charge here on their own, and just when it comes to medical ethics, it's a good thing. That means that you always have weighted, prudent and cautious steps to take, as you actually do yourself. But you're taking steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Hijink, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u50	But then the conclusion is right that the contradictions within the coalition are actually mirrored as a kind of problem for the whole of society. These contradictions will also be certain within society, but in the end the contradictions within the coalition will indeed be leading and it will then become apparent that it is not so much a lack of social discussion but above all a problem of contradictions within this coalition. Well, that's important to establish here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u51	The fact that there are sometimes contradictions on medical-ethical themes has not been your observation. And you're certainly not the first to have determined that either. Moreover, I believe that these parties themselves have determined this when they were at the negotiating table. They've determined that very intensively. That has also led to the precise agreements that are contained in the coalition agreement, so that is not news. What has really been a new agreement in this coalition is that the mere fact that we disagree should not prevent us from taking steps on a number of points. That'll always be small steps. That's not a bad thing either; it's part of this theme. But we'll take some steps. And you won't be able to predict all the medical-ethical themes that come our way in advance. So let's see a way of looking at medical-ethical themes. Those are the three questions I just mentioned. One of these questions is: has there been sufficient social debate? And has time been taken for political reflection? I think that makes perfect sense. That is what every coalition should do on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u52	Political debate and social reflection: always good, especially on such an important subject. At the same time, it seems as if this is a question that still really needs an answer; as if this is a question that has not been answered before. But it is true that the previous cabinet has made a proposal to create opportunities for the cultivation of embryos specifically for that purpose, but that the Council of State said in a critical opinion that the weighting seems to be out of balance. It strikes me that I hardly hear that in the discussion anymore. Now all I hear is that there are parties that are trying to slow things down politically. But that was already a fact, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u53	Absolutely. The Council of State was critical. Reference has also been made to an opinion of the Health Council. That was, of course, a much broader advice, in which embryo culture was mentioned in relation to the much broader embryo discussion, so not only culture to improve the IVF practice and improve the results of ivf, but a much broader advice on how to deal with embryos at all. In relation to this, the need for embryoculture has been mentioned. In short, it's true. Yes, it is true that it has not been discussed for the first time; it has been discussed for a very long time. But this coalition considered at its start that at least there was not enough room for this social debate. Everyone may, of course, think differently, but that was the start of this coalition and thus the mission of this cabinet. If the question is whether this means that during this cabinet period you could no longer 'decide to', then I say: no, we have to relate to the results of that social discussion. Because that is what the government agreement says: the cabinet will not come up with a proposal until after that social debate has taken place. That is why I choose that focus point, because it is also really part of the mission in this cabinet period. But you are absolutely right: the Council of State certainly had a number of fundamental hesitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you. In 25 minutes, at 4.15 p.m., I would like to start the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u55	We have had quite a social debate here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u56	Yeah, you're going deep. That's very beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u57	But I've answered a lot of questions, too. I will answer some very specific questions. Mrs Tellegen asked about this analysis of carriership. In December, that report was presented with an ethical analysis by Theo Boer and Inez de Beaufort. This is the starting point for social dialogue, which runs until July. I have already indicated how we want to deal with this social dialogue, so I will come back to that. Mrs Ellemeet has also asked a question in relation to carriership. She actually says: why don't you look at the theme of carriership in the same way as this law? The same arguments apply to that theme of carriership, don't they? Shouldn't you have dealt with this right away, as the previous cabinet actually had in the same bill? I really do look at that in a different way. Choosing sex is already possible in sexually related diseases. That's a choice between 100% chance or 0% chance. So it's a choice between "1" and "0." So with something that only happens in girls or only in boys, it is already possible to choose sex, albeit as a final step in that whole pgd procedure. In addition, you first looked to see if you can get it out in another way, so whether you can also discover that gene mutation in another way. This legislative proposal then actually contains a small broadening of the scope of application. It's not about 100% or 0% chance, but about 90% or 10% chance, or 50% or 10% chance. In any case, it is an uneven gender incidence that is very different. But carriership is a 0% chance. This has to do with the recessive transmission of this type of disease, i.e. through a recessive gene. So you must also have another carrier of that same disease to express it. So you are sure that the embryo that is produced is never an affected embryo in the sense that the child who grows up from it will also have that disease. That does indeed mean that the weighting will be very different from the proposal before us. That is why we certainly do not regulate this in a single legislative proposal and say: boy, that is all about the same. No, there's a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u58	The Minister explained the purpose of the bill: there may be diseases that are so serious and that have such a negative impact on life that, if there is a choice, we want to avoid passing those diseases on to a next generation. That is what we want to avoid; that is the whole purpose of this proposal. Let that be precisely the purpose of preventing carriership of such a disease. That's the point. The difference is then: do you solve it, just to put it this way, in the next generation, or can it be that you solve it in subsequent generations? But the goal remains the same, namely that we want to offer future parents the opportunity to prevent a disease in very serious diseases that are sexually bound and where you can see that difference. Whether you do that for the child that gets the couple, or that you do it for next generations: that's exactly the same in spirit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u59	But that is, of course, completely different in the medical-ethical weighting. That's completely different. In the case of sex-related diseases, the 100% probability that that sex-related disease will manifest itself in someone who is also infected with that gene will become manifest. This bill represents a small broadening of the scope of application, because that probability distribution is sometimes not 100/0, but 90/10 or because there is another chance of expressing that disease in the embryo that you now grow into a child in the context of IVF. What we are talking about here is that you are actually quite sure that the child who grows up from the embryo that we are talking about will not get that disease. It's a recessive communicable disease, so it's not like that kid's gonna get it. You're even sure that kid's not gonna get it. If you're sure, isn't the medical-ethical weighting completely different in relation to the entire context of the Embryo Act? That doesn't mean you should never go over that, but I think it's really unwise to put that under the same accolade, because it would also have something to do with sex choice. No, the whole weighting will be different, because the child who grows up from it will not have that disease, but will only carry it. So it's about passing that disease on to another generation. The child himself will one day be able to undergo that pgd treatment. In short, it really is a fundamentally different medical-ethical weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u60	What I learned in the college ethics I followed at the university is that you have to go back to the essence, to the core: what is it about in the end? What's the essential assignment you have? In this case, if I translate it into this bill, it is that we want to avoid, as far as possible, burdening a next generation or subsequent generations with a severe disease, if that is the wish of the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u61	No, that's not the point. You do have to get back to the essence. The essence of this bill is to prevent a serious illness in the child being born, not in subsequent generations, but in this child being born. That's the point. That is why you first try to check by gene mutation detection whether an embryo is or is not infected with a serious disease that you are trying to prevent. If that doesn't work, it's possible to proceed to gender-based selection. It is quite right, moreover, that Mrs Dijkstra says that this is not about gender choice. No, this is a means to prevent... That remark is therefore quite right. It's always about the one kid that's about to grow up. So it's not about the next generation. It's about that one kid. That is exactly the difference between carriership and this bill. In short, and again, it has not been said that you should not ever make a decision about it, but what I oppose is that you pretend it is about the same. It's not about the same. It's really a fundamentally different medical-ethical weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u62	I really think that in such a debate we should not try to put the other one down with words that at least I do not recognize myself in. That is exactly what the Minister says: we must be able to have an open discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u63	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u64	With all the integrity I have on this subject, I'm trying to contribute something to this. The Minister may think otherwise. What really matters to me is that parents may have the desire not to saddle their offspring with that word, and I shall only use that word for a moment with a very serious disease. That could be the wish of parents. That is what we are saying here in this debate. When it comes to very serious diseases, we have a very careful procedure for this. That is the essence for me and, as far as I am concerned, my amendment is essentially about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u65	Yeah, so I'm looking at that a little differently. I think this is a good bridge to move on to the amendments. In that case, I have already explained a little what my opinion will be on this amendment. Shall I begin with this amendment? Then we take the tension away at once. I have to mention the right song. Could the piece no. 11?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u66	Probably piece No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u67	Oh, it's changed. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The amendment in part No. 12 is the amendment tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen to replace the amendment to item No. 11. I think we have just had a very long discussion, because this is indeed about adding the element of carriership. I have said that I understand that you see this in the same direction. I meant to say that I understand that you see this in the same vein, but for me, the medical-ethical weighting of these two subjects is really a different one. That is why I would really like to deal with this as a matter of my own accord and not add it to this bill, but I would like to conclude the public debate first in order to reach a cabinet judgment. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u68	I am struggling with this because it is very complicated and we will have to vote on it later. The Minister actually gives a more procedural reason to discourage this now, while I am more looking for a substantive consideration in order to vote for or against this amendment. I understand that as a minister you can say: I prefer it in another law or at another time. But that is a procedural argument. What is the reason why this amendment by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Ploumen should not be recommended?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u69	First of all, I would like to stress that this procedural argument is also an important one, because it is linked to the mandate given to this cabinet by the government agreement. As regards subjects where there has been insufficient medical-ethical reflection or where there has been insufficient social debate, this coalition has chosen to instruct the cabinet to do this in the right order. I understand that you see that as a procedural argument, but for me and for the cabinet this is an important argument. I would just like to say that I will give a procedural answer to another amendment later, because that procedural answer is important in dealing with medical-ethical issues. I have tried to give the substantive argument that we really want to see this as two separate issues, in response to Mrs Ellemeet. Where this bill deals with the creation of embryos that will or will not have a disease that they carry not only in the sense that they could pass on that potential to a next generation, but in the sense that you are either very sure or very likely to develop that disease yourself and that you will get that disease yourself, you have a different weighting of the need to intervene. Then you have another weighting of the possibility you want to offer parents to intervene in the creation of the embryos, or actually in the selection of embryos you want to create. That really is a different weighting. Because in one case you're sure, or almost certain, and in the other case you're sure that the child that's being produced will at least not have that disease. So the heaviness with which you look at the potential transmission of that disease really counts differently. Again, that doesn't mean that eventually you can't come to a substantive choice to do it anyway, but the weighting is fundamentally different. That is why I do not believe that this should be included in the same legislative proposal, or that it should be included in the same amendment. It really has a different weighting. Another argument is, of course, that the gene mutation detection is now getting so much better that you also have a lot of possibilities along that path. It is then less objectionable, because it is not about sex choice. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go to the other amendments, which are about breeding. In my view, there are two amendments on cultivation. I just need to get my extremely orderly administration in order. I refer, if I am well informed, to the amendment to item No. 10...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u70	And the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u71	The amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet and Amendment No 10 by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Both are on the same subject, although Mr Hijink's amendment is much more focused on the extent to which it applies. I have just made an attempt to illustrate what might be a contribution and why it may or may not be entirely useful in relation to such a social dialogue, if you want to keep it going. In doing so, I reflected on the arguments that could possibly be a background in order to move on to the possibility of growing embryos for research. In this case, it is specifically research aimed at improving IVF practice, or wider. That is the variation in these amendments. The medical-ethical arguments must be weighed, as expressed in this debate. On the one hand, you could say: the Embryowet has quite deliberately said that you should never separate the creation of embryos from the purpose by which you achieve those embryos, namely to satisfy a child's wish. You always see embryos in relation to passing on life and entering into relationships. That's one way. You could say that's not instrumentalizing the embryo. That's what it's often called, although that might be a bit of a problem word. On the other hand, it is said: "We have already done research on embryos under a number of conditions. We already grow embryos, in the context of that IVF practice. In order to improve that IVF practice as such, you will need to make research possible, namely for day two, three and four of the development of such an embryo." That's what's on the other side. These are two fundamental reasons for providing an answer to these questions. The cabinet has chosen to conduct the social dialogue before making a choice. That is also explicitly stated in the coalition agreement. I am committed to referring to the coalition agreement in this way. That is why I would like to discourage both of these amendments. That's a procedural argument. I'm well aware of that. But it is a substantive procedural argument, because it is related to that agreement in the government agreement to conduct the social debate properly before reaching a position as a cabinet. I would therefore advise against both amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Hijink. And then I'd like to go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u73	This is a very typical outcome to the moral dilemma we are facing here. It is also the discussion I had with Mrs Dik-Faber. The choice now made by the cabinet and by the coalition parties actually comes down to the following. Because of the procedural argument that the minister has just appointed, namely "we are not going to grow a limited number of embryos in order to do research," we cannot, in total, improve the effectiveness of creating the new life, which the Christian Union is so keen to do. That is, of course, a very strange outcome of this debate. You opt for a less effective method of ivf, which eventually leads to more residual embryos that you have to throw away or, as the Christian Union says, "destruction of life." That is the effect of this choice. But with a less far-reaching procedure, you can make sure that this destruction is stopped and that women need fewer IVF treatments and could therefore receive better care. I think that is a very typical outcome of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u74	You call it 'a result of this debate', but this debate is about the legislative proposal before you. So it is not 'a result of this debate'. It could be a result of a debate that has yet to follow. So by definition it is not 'a result of this debate', because there is simply another legislative proposal before it. At the same time, I understand the arguments put forward by Mr Hijink. When I was at the meeting in Utrecht, as part of the social dialogue, I found another citizen there, in the person of Mrs Tellegen, who had approached it as an interested citizen. So this is, of course, an argument that has a role to play in choosing how to handle embryo cultivation and how to look at it. What you are actually doing, and I really like that, is that you want to broaden the scope of research, while at the same time focusing on the medical-ethical concerns on the other side. That is simply a very valuable contribution to the discussion. My objection is that we do not finish that discussion today, because we are doing it in the way we agreed. So first we have the social debate, and then we weigh the outcome and we come to a decision. I think that at some point we will be pursuing this discussion in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u75	Very well, thank you. So much for the first term. I'm gonna see if there's a need for a second term. There is. Mrs Ellemeet, please be brief and pointy. The same applies to Mrs Tellegen. Mrs Ellemeet is going to do it without paper, I see. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That doesn't necessarily mean I'm faster, but I'm gonna do my best. They are in themselves very valuable and important but also difficult debates on such issues. You can simply disagree deeply, and then we, as opposition parties, are also opposed to a coalition that differs from one another. That makes it all extra complicated, because that adds an entire dimension. But my frustration is in the following. Yes, it's very good to look for the floor and discuss it with each other. I also wholeheartedly support Mrs Tellegen's and others' call for a genuine social debate. But let's be honest. A social debate, a conversation with each other, is desirable, but sometimes it is also seized by this cabinet to delay. That is the feeling that lingers with me. You can talk to each other about a lot of important and indeed groundbreaking developments, but there are also issues that are closer to practice and which you might ask yourself: is that debate necessary for that or can we take more steps? I have heard a number of colleagues say quite honestly: this is the space I have. I would consider that honesty or openness, let me put it this way, to be appropriate for the Minister. Is that debate really necessary for everything, or is it fair to say that that space is not there? Then maybe we can also prioritize a little more clearly in what we really want to have the conversation about and what we want to park in this period. Because that is, I think, the issue, especially when we are talking about Mr Hijink's proposal and the broad call from researchers, scientists and people who, for example, have a child's wish to give room for research into embryos, especially in the first few days, because that can improve the quality of IVF treatments. About the carriership we have changed the necessary. For me, the essence of the proposal we are discussing here is that we do not want to pass on very serious diseases to future generations. That's the core for me. That is why, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, it would fit very well to include the carriership in this. But there's a difference of opinion. That can also be done on a subject as complicated as this. I wanted to leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you. Then Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot escape the impression that the contrast between the clarity of the positions of Mrs Tellegen and Mrs Dijkstra and the mist created by the Minister is really great. We have indicated that this bill is, as far as we are concerned, a step that we should take, but also that we would like to take a bigger step. All things considered, we also consider that a responsible step. It is a step that has also been widely discussed and discussed. We are very sorry that the Minister does not agree. I must say that his answer to the question of whether there is a decisive role for social dialogue does not reassure me. He does not have to answer that, because then he will say that there are three perspectives that weigh the cabinet. I agree with that in itself, but that has already been discussed and I get the strong impression that whatever comes out of that dialogue will not affect the government's thinking, because there is also something like the government agreement, as the Minister says. I'm not fighting that, but that's a bit of a conflict between us. Mr. Chairman. Having said all that, I think that the Minister should show himself more actively in the debate and invite people to participate in the discussion. That can be very good without taking a position. He does that on other subjects too often. To encourage the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the VWS Minister can play an important role in making medical-ethical topics subject to discussion, including embryo selection and embryo breeding;]] [[calls on the Government to make the issue of embryo selection and the cultivation of embryos more explicit in society, by having the Minister of the United States of America speak publicly about the importance and significance of this subject and the advantages and disadvantages of the various positions, and to inform the Chamber of how this mission is to be fulfilled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35173-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u79	Finally, Mr President. I would like to thank colleagues for the debate we have had, I would like to thank the scientists who have taken the trouble to come to the round table and I would like to invite all the people to speak out and to relate to it. Even if it is not for all of us, and we should be happy with that, it has a huge implication for their lives, their children's desires and their potential children. We also have a responsibility to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you. Mr Jansen of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Contrary to other moments, we do not now have the idea that the college is training here. In this case, I think the Minister is making the right steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u82	You said something about the college. The former alderman of Rotterdam feels appealed, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u83	Sorry, Minister. Let's talk about the minister. I believe that the Minister, on behalf of the coalition, is taking the right steps at the right pace. As a PVV, we can broadly agree with that. The Minister's invisibility surrounding the dialogues has been discussed. We believe that a little more could be done. The Minister can, of course, simply state what the balance is, without taking a stand. It is worth noting that the Chamber itself thinks about this in a nuanced way. But his presence could be good in itself. Then, very briefly, a response to the amendments that have been announced. I will not completely close the door to the amendment to item No. 13, but we do want to be consistent. That too is an issue that will be addressed in the dialogue. So I'm leaning towards voting against that, but I'm not exactly closing the door for you yet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you. Then Mrs Tellegen from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his careful and clear response. As I said earlier, I think he is very capable of raising the profile of resistance in society, such as what we have talked about here today. That's an encouragement. As I said, we are taking two important steps today. For some parties in this house, those steps don't go far enough. For other parties in this house it is the maximum achievable. That's what we're dealing with right now. The VVD would have liked to have taken greater steps in the field of carriership..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That wish stands for my party. Its implementation will be delayed for a while. Let me come back to the social dialogue, because that is what we are hanging on a lot. That was also agreed in the coalition agreement. That is all very well, but if we do so, and if we call it a social dialogue, then that dialogue must also be social. That, I believe, is not the case at the moment. That's not weird either. The subject is difficult for long hauls, fast home. I would have liked to have tabled a motion on this. I do not do that, because the Minister has clearly indicated that he will soon come to the Chamber with a letter on how he will bring the social component into these dialogues. I would like to say to the Minister once again that this should not lead to delays again. But if we are going to draw policy conclusions from these dialogues, I also believe that these dialogues should be conducted socially and not just with experts. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u86	I'd be fine with that. Mrs Dijkstra of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. It was clear and clear. So he's very good at that. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to examine with the scientific associations for obstetricians, gynecologists and embryologists whether the model regulations in the Embryo Act are still up-to-date and complete. I think that's important. I would like to add that this may have to be done on a regular basis, because developments sometimes go so fast. Actually, that's what this bill is all about. The point is that the professionals in the conversation with the parents help with this absolutely unflinching decision and all its consequences. How can you prevent a serious hereditary illness for your desired child? Let me now turn to the social dialogue. Can I have a promise from the Minister that it was indeed completed this summer? I understand that this has already been promised. I hear the Minister asking what the subject is. The subject of social dialogue, namely the cultivation of embryos for scientific research. Can we talk about it again soon? 'Cause I'd like to take away the image we're trying to slow down. I don't want to slow down. I just want to keep going. That's what my party wants. I hope this works. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you. Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering all the questions. It was not only very clear, but also quite concise. That can also be said at some point. Mr. Chairman. With regard to sex choice at unequal gender incidence, I asked the Minister to what extent the gender incidence should be unequal in order to justify gender selection. The Minister indicated that this could not be cut with scissors and that the weighting would take place on the basis of other criteria, such as the nature and severity of the disease. My group understands that. We also have a great deal of confidence in the scientists who will ultimately consider this. However, we would very much like to know exactly what this process looks like if there are new serious hereditary diseases with an uneven gender incidence, and therefore pgd, pre-implantation genetic diagnostics, is applied. I just took a look at the 2017 Annual Report PGD. You see a lot of tables. Honestly, I found it hard to understand. That is why I ask the Minister whether it is possible to describe more qualitatively in the annual report the assessments made in embryo selection so that, as a Chamber, and perhaps also as a society, we can keep an eye on scientific developments. With regard to the second part of the legislative proposal, I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to engage with the professional groups to ensure that parents are informed about the use of residual embryos for quality control prior to fertility treatment. I also asked the Minister how he looked at the ethical reflection of scientists. How does he intend to ensure that this reflection takes place sufficiently in the various research groups involved in embryo research? Finally, I welcome the Minister's approach to the dialogues. These must be really wide-ranging social discussions in order to find out how society views new developments in the field of embryos. My group is therefore looking forward with interest to the letter he will send to the Chamber on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u90	Fine. Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer to the questions that have been asked. I had already made it clear in the first term how the SGP Group weighs this bill. I did not come to a different conclusion after the answer. As far as my group is concerned, it is a step in the wrong direction, since the scope for embryo selection is being increased. I understand the editorial background and that it is meant to be innocent, but we also find it very unfortunate that in the Embryo Act the term "rest material" is now used for embryos, rather than, more in line with what is common in the Embryo Act, avoiding that terminology. This term suggests that it can be used more instrumentally and technically with residual embryos. Mr. Chairman. I said it's a step in the wrong direction. I also realize that a much bigger question, which is also coming... Mr President, I believe that Mrs Ploumen wishes to intervene on the previous part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yes, you were in the middle of a sentence and I thought I'd let you finish it. But as you wish, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u93	I would like to welcome Mr Van der Staaij on his previous point. My group also finds this term unfortunate. Perhaps we can change that, perhaps with other colleagues, without going through a complicated process. Maybe we could ask the Minister that question together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u94	Clear. A question to the minister via the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u95	I told you, this bill is a step towards increasing the scope of embryo selection. A much more far-reaching step and discussion is the special cultivation of embryos for research purposes. Of this you can say that it is not an extension of the scope of an existing scheme. This would be a whole new step. My group very much hopes that this step will not be taken. I realise that there are different views on this, but for the SGP Group this is a real change in this area. Finally, the PGD annual reports. First of all, I noticed that the Minister also referred to the fact that it is a long time before the annual report 2018 becomes available. As far as I know, the most recent of 2017. My question would be whether this could be accelerated in the future, so that the annual report for the year before would appear at least in the following year. That'd be great. I agree with Mrs Dikk's point: can the annual report also be dressed a little more than just bubbles and stats? That could help to get more in touch with the trade-offs that are being made. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u96	Thank you. Mr Hijink of the SP waived his speaking time. The same applies to Mr Van der Molen. In doing so, Mr Van der Staaij was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the second term. I'll suspend for one minute. At 4:30, we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u97	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the debate. Thank you also for the second-term reflections on the part of the Chamber. First of all, all the compliments, also for encouragement, in the vein of: "You can talk about difficult things simply." That is, of course, only extremely affectionate. That is at least how I heard it, so I thank the Chamber very much for that. Mrs Dik-Faber's compliment on succinctness is a compliment that has just never been shared with me. I think I should just share that with the chairman, because it's thanks to his conciseness coaching that I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you for sharing this with me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u100	But that's how I see it. Mr. Chairman. We have had a very wide-ranging debate on a number of points. I think it's good not to do all that again. Do we really need this social dialogue, or would you be able to reach a position without that social dialogue? In this question, I think it is logical that Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Tellegen say: we already knew what our view was, so we strictly did not need that social dialogue to come to a conclusion. But that is, of course, a party political position. As a representative of the cabinet, I have to deal with the task of the coalition as a whole. So do I need it? Yes, I need it, because otherwise I won't do what I'm told: do things in the right order. That is why I use the same openness and clarity as others do, in the sense of: where do you stand? Well, here it is. I have to do it with the assignment given to me in the coalition agreement. What I think is party politics is not relevant in my case, but in the case of a group's representation. That's exactly the difference in positioning. That's okay at all. I am not going to suffer from that either, but that is something I have to relate to. That's one. Two is Mrs Dik-Faber's question when it comes to the process of pgd. That is actually also a question in which Mr Van der Staaij joins. He says: "I would really like to know a little more about the substantive consideration. I love bubbles and stats and figures, but I would like to know more about the substantive consideration." That seems to me to be a good encouragement, which I would like to continue. There I will add the encouragement that has also been given: perhaps it is a good idea if we get the annual report in the year following the year that has just been completed. The 2018 annual report is in the pen, I understand. I believe that this is usually presented to the Chamber in October of the following year or to the Cabinet, which then offers it to the Chamber. It's just that it's gonna be on the shelf for a while now. That's because there's more work to be done, or actually I don't even know what the background is. I understand that it is in the pen before March, but I will convey the encouragement of the Chamber to enrich it both in substance and to increase the pace. Then the issue of monologues... Or no, the social dialogues! Excuse me! Sorry, it's my umpteenth debate this week. We should not have any misunderstandings: it is about the social dialogues. I'm gonna send a letter about that in February. I'm gonna take your encouragements into account. One of them was: try to make it a real social dialogue as much as possible. That is the recommendation of a number of Members, in particular Mrs Tellegen. A second was: try to see what role you could play in that. Well, that's a little different each time for each of those dialogues. I'm gonna send that letter in February. Then I'm looking at the one motion that's been filed. I don't have it ready for a while, but I'm pretty sure it's been filed. I would like to say the following. We can go both ways. I don't think I need this encouragement, so I might be able to dissuade her. We can also say: hold her until that letter of February, because then you will see how we shape these dialogues. So I'd like to invite you to apprehend her. Suppose you say: no, it has to be submitted now, because there is a great social issue that needs to be resolved now. Then I would like to dissuade her, because then I simply say: I do not need that encouragement to choose myself in what way I wish to manifest myself in those social dialogues. Then there are a number of questions that have remained. One was Mrs Ellemeet's: when is a couple not eligible, despite the presence of that mutation? I kind of confused it with the evaluation of the IVF practice, but you were really referring specifically to the practice ahead. This has to do with the difference in the degree of severity with which the disease manifests itself, i.e. with the weighting of criteria between different families. That does not apply to BRCA, because it will not happen that BRCA manifests itself in a less serious way in a number of families. At most, there may be a contra-indication from the IVF which prevents treatment, but this cannot be based on weighing or sufficient severity. But in LHON, the degree of severity of the disease varies between families. If only a mild variant of LHON occurs in a family, that could be a reason why a couple is not eligible. It is therefore different for each disease; hence the weighting based on different criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mrs Ellemeet, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u102	I find that reassuring; I couldn't imagine it. I think it is important that this is properly communicated. We know it now, but it is of course important that all these women know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u103	Once, very once. Then a question from Mrs Dik-Faber: how is it ensured that scientists do enough ethical thinking? As a legislator, of course, you can't guarantee that. The extent to which scientists are used to ethical reflection will be quite different, but I would like to emphasise that ethical decisions are not just a matter for ethicists, but for all medical scientists. It is well known that the actions that are being carried out are not only technical but also ethical. This ethical reflection is not only created in collaboration with ethicists or encouraged by research financiers, such as ZonMw, but also by the professional group itself. Then I think, Mr President, that I have answered all the questions. No, one more question from Mrs Dijkstra of D66: when has the special culture dialogue been concluded? I think it will be completed somewhere this spring. I have indicated that before the summer recess I would like to give a cabinet response to the Chamber so that the debate can be continued. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the second-term cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u104	There is another question from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u105	I realize that, for my part, it was not so much a question as a judgment, but Mrs Ploumen made a question of it. It is about the matter of the residual material: should it be this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u106	Excuse me. That was exactly the only point I had just had to discuss. I heard you very well. Despite the fact that there was no substantive intention behind that term, I heard you correctly. I think I need to have a little talk about how we could come up with a different terminology. We could use a letter of amendment to bring it your way, prior to the vote. In that one minute we didn't figure out what word to use, but let's go along with the terminology that is common.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u107	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-9.u108	On Tuesday we shall vote on the legislative proposal, the three amendments and the one motion. So far. I'll suspend for a few moments; then we'll talk about the teacher register.
