ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Van 't Wout of the VVD. Mr. Van 't Wout isn't really saying goodbye to us, which he becomes a member of the cabinet. It is not always customary to say goodbye to MPs who become members of the government, but it is nevertheless nice to reflect briefly on your departure. Bas also wrote a note. Yeah, it's really a note. Usually MPs write long letters with a whole story about how many motions they've filed and what they've all managed to achieve, but Bas has written a very sweet note, in which he thanks everyone and his mother.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-7.u2	So I'm gonna start with that now. Then I'll just quote from the letter. "First of all, there is of course a great deal of thanks for all the staff, who have done an incredible amount of work in recent months and even in this strange time have been able to give us a welcome feeling. Over the last few years, as Vice-President, I have worked a lot with my counterparts in the coalition. Thanks to Pieter, Kees, Steven, Jaco and Joël for the good collaboration. Sometimes it was complicated, but that never stood in the way of a good personal relationship and we usually managed to reach a compromise. And this country is built on compromises, so we should be proud of that. After seven years, I'm also leaving the VVD group. It feels like you're saying goodbye to your family. Thank you for the lovely discussions, the cosiness and the warmth. Special thanks to Klaas Dijkhoff, my group chairman, from whom I have learned a great deal. The VVD Group is also larger than just the MPs. Our team of policy staff, advisors and personal employees is great. You always make people short when you start naming names, but through them I also thank the others. Kees Berghuis, Eelco Heinen, Laura Huisman and Ralph Ladestein: thank you, and I'm going to miss you. Finally, my thanks also go to my wife Janneke and our children, who have always supported me in this work, and to my wonderful parents-in-law, who are always willing to jump in at any time, making it possible for Janneke and I to combine our busy jobs with our family. Dear Khadija, I am not saying goodbye, but goodbye. Because even though I am going to be on the other side of the table, we will always have to grab it together in this beautiful country, with a cool head and a warm heart. Greetings, Bas van 't Wout."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-7.u3	Dear Bas, That letter is actually typical of who you are and how you've worked here over the past period: always modest and especially focused on the other. You thank everyone in that letter, and the other way around, I want to thank you, too. You've been a Member of Parliament since 2012. By Mr Van der Linde you were called a keeper in an interview. I think he's right. If you weren't asked to succeed Tamara van Ark as Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, I think you would have stayed in the Chamber, because you were always clearly in your place here. You also felt at home here, both in the Chamber and in your group. Within the VVD you are seen as a silent force, as a stable factor that keeps everyone in line. This work is largely out of the spotlight. Well, that's not so strange either, considering your background, because you've also been a personal assistant to the Prime Minister. You're used to working behind the scenes and making sure everything's okay. You are listed as a hard worker, serious and reliable, as the ideal son-in-law. Even if you hadn't mentioned your parents-in-law in the Acts, I would have told you. As a Member of Parliament, you were mainly concerned with long-term care, European Affairs, the Royal House and, of course, Social Affairs and Employment. That's what you did with modesty. That doesn't mean you didn't enjoy the debate. You've shown that a few times. You could debate strongly, especially when it comes to the consequences of policy choices for ordinary people. You've always worked behind the scenes, but you're leaving the Chamber and getting into the spotlight. We're not gonna say goodbye to you, because we'd love to see you back in section K, but we're gonna say goodbye to you as a MP. Good luck and good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-7.u4	Then I'll suspend for a moment, if you need it. Then we will continue with the debate.
