ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the policy of the Ministry of Defence on transparency on air strikes in the fight against IS. It's so good to see you guys again. I hope this is mutual, because nobody says anything back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you. I would like to welcome the Minister of Defence, all Members of Parliament and, above all, those who are following this debate at a distance. We'll start the first term with six questions. Then we will see how many questions can be asked in the government's term. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. With some inconvenience, I am standing here at a time when our country is experiencing a huge crisis. But I am also firmly committed to this debate. It is a debate about something that began as a terrible incident in a war, but has turned into a case in which structuralally everything continues to go wrong. In the night of 2 to 3 June 2015, more than 70 civilians died in Hawija. Instead of transparency and adequate information on this fate, we are in a cat-and-mouse game with Defense, in which the Chamber has to act as a sort of detective and is dependent on media revelations to get the facts on the table. It's not supposed to be. This is very careless and is therefore a bad way of dealing with the constitutional right of information of the Chamber. As far as D66 is concerned, there are risks involved in participating in war. We stand for the choice to participate in the fight against ISIS. But D66 also stands for transparency when things go wrong; especially if civilian casualties occur. This openness is part of an adult democracy, in which the parliament, the military, the Dutch population and the relatives have the right to know what has happened. Mr. Chairman. Almost five years later, I still can't say with certainty that everything is above the table. In fact, the Minister kept telling the Chamber wrongly over and over again. Just before our country came to a standstill, it appeared that for years it had been known that the air attack on Hawija had more than 70 civilian casualties, something the Minister denied for months. "Rumours," as the Prime Minister called it. It was based on false information from the Americans. Of course, it seems logical to rely on information from an ally. But how bad is it if it shows that you have misinformed Parliament? How did this happen, I ask the Minister. What does it mean, if the Minister, and with us, is to rely on false information about such essential facts? Mr. Chairman. We go back to June 2015, the fateful attack and its design. When I read that additional research had to be done, that hours worked to reduce the attack to zero civilian casualties and that this was actually impossible to estimate for secondary explosions, I feel like a paper reality. You get the impression that it's been calculated just as long to get under the line at zero, to carry out the attack. Can the Minister explain this? Has this happened before? Was there ever any outcome that was really realistic at all? Was the neighboring settlement sufficient in sight? Have the mitigation measures actually been implemented? Finally, on what points was the process of preparation, after Hawija, adapted by the Americans? Mr. Chairman. The following is also striking. The D.A.'s investigation didn't start until months after the attack. Why was this even so? Is it true that the D.O.D. first started an investigation of his own before the D.A.'s office was informed? Is this the usual way? Mr. Chairman. All this information came out through in-depth research by the NOS and the NRC. But how is it that this information can come out through a WOB request and not through a minister? On the basis of what agreements was the Minister not allowed to share this? Can she share these appointments with the Room? Finally, Mr President. I understand from the next of kin that promises about damages by the Defense Department are barely being kept. In recent debates, the Minister's attitude was hopeful, but again I did not feel that I was being taken seriously. Is she prepared to improve this process? (NL) Mr President, all in all. The drama in Hawija is no longer to be repaired. The chaos that followed, in transparency and reporting to the Chamber, is unprecedented. It's like a box of puzzle pieces that the minister shakes extra, or where the minister throws another puzzle, and then the Chamber itself can solve. It's been a long time playing detective. I expect the Minister to give very clear answers today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	I read in one of the newspapers that Mrs Belhaj is ready to hear the latest facts from the newspaper every time, and not directly from the minister. I would like to ask her what she wants from the Minister in that respect for the future, precisely in order to prevent us from standing here again in two months' time. What does D66 really want from this minister in this cabinet, in order to prevent us from having to tell the newspaper every time what the facts are about this bombing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	D66 and a number of other parties in this Chamber have been trying for years to promote greater transparency in the defence sector. That's not just because we're just curious. It is clear to us that we think that the support for what the military does depends on how much you can be open about how you do things. This is especially true when things go wrong. For me, therefore, it is very important, which was also the case in previous debates, that we are truth-finding and that we know what is happening. That truth could be incredibly ugly. Things can go incredibly wrong in a war. You shouldn't have any illusions about that. It's war, there's casualties, and it's important to say the same thing. I understand that soldiers sometimes have the impression: when we talk about this, do they understand what we are doing? I understand very well what soldiers do. It also affects me when soldiers think that this debate is about how they did their job. That is not what this debate is about. It is about how we as a parliament can take more and more steps towards a full-fledged way of talking about the military, defence and missions, even if things go wrong. So today I want to hear everything very clearly from the Minister, once again. Why are things the way they are? Why are we hearing them through the media? Was there or was not a proper look to prevent civilian casualties? That is why I asked the Minister these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	For the sake of clarity, I know that Mrs Belhaj has been advocating greater transparency on behalf of her group for years. However, I am also curious to see how she assesses the progress made by the Minister in this regard in all these years when Mrs Belhaj is calling for greater transparency. If she is not satisfied with that, what I understand from what she says here and in the newspapers, then the question is: what are we going to ask of this minister, except that she might give even more opening up on this issue today? What are we going to ask for to ensure better information in the future? That's what it's all about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	I thought we had actually come quite far in previous debates, wide in the Chamber, by saying: more transparency. The Minister also thinks that this is important. But what is no longer possible is that if I open up a newspaper, I have to read things that we have asked for here, and on which we are told by the Minister: we are not going to tell you, because there are allies who do not tell. Then how can journalists, with all due respect, of course for those journalists, get that information through a WOB request? I think that's a slap in the face. We have a reliable ally. We've done a lot of missions together. We're doing a lot of bombings, and most of it goes well. But if things don't go well, the Dutch Parliament has the right to know what is going on, and I can expect this Minister to explain how hard she has done to get that information here. So it shouldn't go through the paper anymore. I think that will also be important today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	On 5 November, Ms Belhaj accused the Minister of misinformation and that she did not fulfil the constitutional duty to inform the Chamber properly. Mrs Belhaj then said, I quote her: "We feel a little cheated." November 5 was only the beginning of the misery, because in the weeks after that we got that bizarre amnesia of Prime Minister Rutte, and later it turned out that Minister Bijleveld once again forsook her constitutional duty by misinformed the Chamber about the 70 civilian deaths. My question to Mrs Belhaj is now the following. If Mrs. Belhaj felt cheated on 5 November, how does she feel, a few months and a couple of cabinet mistakes later, then now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's a nice question. I had a feeling it would come, and I thought: should I really share my primary emotions here in parliament when I read that message in the newspaper? I'm not going to do that, but you can imagine that I felt even more cheated than before, and I'm also extremely irritated about the fact that you have to hear things through the newspaper and not through this minister. This is actually the first and best opportunity, including for the Minister, to tell us how this can be done. How is it that she gets a note from an undersecretary of the U.S. Defense that says "it can't" when it's in the paper? In my words, I will not use any superb stairs in emotion, but it is quite clear that the Minister must do her best today to give full clarity about everything that has happened over the last few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	You said in the newspaper a few days ago that you are quite finished with the way in which the cabinet informed the Chamber, that you are quite done with that. The question then is: is this going to lead to a negative assessment of the functioning of this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	At first, I believe you're having a debate. Otherwise, we can skip it together. Then someone files a motion, and then it's done. I'm a reasonable person. My party is also a reasonable party. We're going for the maximum disclosure today, for the truth. It is always only at the end of the debate to draw conclusions. Of course, that always depends on how the Minister can serve us by making sure she tells us everything that's important to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	Finally, Mr President, my conclusion from this interruption is that Mrs Belhaj is barking but is simply not prepared to bite through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr De Roon does not know when I bark and when I bite. I have just indicated, I think, that I always do so at the end of the debate. But you should know that if I bite myself in something and if it's not right, I won't let go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have a question for Mrs Belhaj. She says: I want to know how it is that we have to hear something from the media when we have asked the Minister. We have all actually asked that question. In fact, I think the Minister actually has that question. That is why we have put the written questions 44, 45 and 46. In questions 10 and 11, the Minister replied as follows. At the request of the Chamber, I believe that the Minister asked for a request from Mrs Belhaj first through her officials, then through the ambassador and later even with a personal letter to her colleague: can we have that report; can we do so publicly? The United States Secretary of Defense said no. That's what the answers say. So we already know that. The US Secretary of Defense, Mrs Bijleveld's colleague, was then elected. The U.S. Secretary still won't give it to him. That's what the answers say. Then, under pressure from a legal procedure, the US Secretary of State is forced to make it public. Yeah, then he has to. That's why the reporters got it. And the minister wasn't allowed to have it. That's what the answers say. We already know the answer to Mrs Belhaj's main question. I can actually imagine Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks' question. You already have the answer to that question. You have requested a debate on this. You're asking the question again. Then what do you want us to learn from this for the future? I think we can find each other there as a room much more. We all hate that CENTCOM communicates that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	Actually, you should turn it around, I'd like to say to Mr. Van Helvert. Look, you're saying, "The minister asked, right? She says she didn't get it, right? You can't blame her for that, can you? It is annoying that it still comes through the journalists." That's exactly the reasoning I don't want to follow. I find it unacceptable that the Netherlands, which is a reliable ally in many different missions and has carried out many bombings, is treated like this by the United States. I think that's really unacceptable. It is not the journalists who have thrown bombs, it is the Netherlands, it is our F-16 pilots who have wanted to do their work carefully. I think we should turn it around. The minister asked if they could still release the report. Or did she bang the fist on the table? Or did she say: I'm going to make it classified public, because it's important for the Dutch Parliament? Did she say: I think it is important that there is support for military missions and that is why I am going to do it this way? Then let the Americans come. You'll have to go to trial if you have to. It's all new to us, but I don't think it's possible to think it's logical that journalists get it and our Secretary of Defense doesn't. I really don't think that's possible. And that's why I'm gonna ask her that question again here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, we all don't think we can. That's why we all asked that question. The Minister doesn't think it's possible either. The question is, what can we do together in a future? Let's say the Netherlands has to go back on a mission. What learning capacity can we then demonstrate to say: if there is information, will the Chamber be able to look at it, if necessary confidentially? Is Mrs. Belhaj willing to take the Chamber and see what we can do? Otherwise, all we're talking about is how hard the punch of the minister's fist was on the table in America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	Before you can think about solutions, you need to know what's going on. Then you need to know exactly what our relationship with the United States is. Then you need to know what kind of arrangements we actually make. It is now up to the Minister to make that clear to us. You're a foreign spokesperson yourself. Next time you have that information, you'll know more clearly what you want to ask. It's not a quick fix: well, we're going to send a note to America on behalf of Parliament that we'll want it next time. It's too simple. You must also give it to yourself as a foreign spokesperson to know exactly where things did not go well. How were we treated like the Netherlands? How did we put that question to the United States? Only then can we talk about solutions. We need to find out what happened first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	I have a brief question for Mrs Belhaj in line with what has already been asked. Does Mrs Belhaj think this minister should have done more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	That is the question I am asking the Minister. She needs to be given the opportunity to explain how information can get out through the media, when she has not succeeded. I want the Minister to tell me exactly what she did, so I understand. I'm a very reasonable person. If I understand what happened, I can find something. Then I can think: you should have done more, you should have done a little less, you should have done something else. We know that, but now we don't know anything. All we know is that a call was made or an e-mail was sent asking, "Would you like to send that report?" We got a letter back nicely: I'm not gonna do that, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	In my view, we have seen in the answers to the written questions everything that the Minister has done. My question to Mrs Belhaj is: does she think that the Minister has done enough or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	If you're going to look under the line, I have my doubts if the minister has done enough. Because under the line, we got the answer: I asked, but we didn't get it; the media asked and they got it. There's a discrepancy. That discrepancy and how it can be, so the how, the Minister can explain that. I think the extent to which you're punching your fist or your fist on the table is extremely relevant. You can ask something very nice. You can ask for something skinny. You can threaten. You can say, "I'm going to make it public anyway." There's a gradation of possibilities in how you ask that question. We didn't agree to that in the Chamber. It would also be a bit ridiculous if we had to instruct ministers how to ask them to do something. Then you are very much on the level: do you trust a minister to perform a task or a request from the Chamber properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm kind of looking for what D66 wants from the cabinet now. It is true that we have been fighting together for years for transparency and openness, as it should be in a democracy. We're getting deception and disinformation. The Minister has now promised to be more transparent in future. She says: when NGOs and/or others come forward and give rise to this, I will inform you confidentially. We now know of two cases, but we don't know anything about the 2.098 remaining bombings. Is that the openness that D66 demands, the openness of that data, so that it can be assessed whether those 2.098 cases were indeed clean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	I can answer that question with yes. I have the impression that I also know that no one in the Chamber does not understand that certain information is secret. But if things have gone wrong, then you can get certain things out of it and share with us in generalities. You can abstract or generalize that a little bit. You can say: we need to take a little more time for a decision or we need to make better agreements with our allies. Or as the Davids Committee once recommended: The Netherlands must do more to ensure that its own intelligence position is sufficient and not just sail on the intelligence of others, even if you have good experiences with each other. If you don't take incidents where something really horrible happened seriously, then you're also gonna question the other situations. That's why I'm answering your question right away with yes. Perhaps today the Minister will have the opportunity to say whether there are things about more than three thousand bombings that the Chamber needs to know to do its job better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	In order to get it all sharp: we will propose that all other data be released, about the location, the time and so on, so that NGOs and others who monitor on the ground are not able to see whether or not we are present on the ground. Do I understand correctly from Mrs Belhaj that D66 supports that proposal? My follow-up question. You have said that a lot has gone wrong. Frankly, Mrs Belhaj, I find it totally unbelievable that the whole world knew that those 70 were known and registered from the beginning, but that just this minister always gets the wrong answers. Is D66 in favour of a fundamental investigation into how that whole process went if you say you want to know the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	Before we decide... Of course, I am also always looking seriously at the SP motions on this subject. I will certainly do that when it comes to all situations, although I was assuming that we had already agreed with the Minister. Mrs. Karabulut shakes no, so I'm sure I'll take a good look at that. Her second question was: shouldn't you even want to investigate? That may be a conclusion at the end of the debate, but I also think it is silly if this Minister does not give answers. That's kind of what I'm describing with that cat-and-mouse game, like we're some kind of detectives. It is the responsibility of the Minister and the Ministry to give us all the information that is relevant. First of all, I want to stick to that responsibility. Otherwise we're gonna say, "Okay, you don't know, we don't trust it, we're gonna do it ourselves." But I think I might be able to give a better answer at the end of the debate, depending on the answers given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would like to go back to the words used by Mrs Belhaj in this debate, in previous debates and also in the newspapers. "Over and over again misinformed," "improperly" and more of such terms. Mrs Belhaj explained that she is waiting for the debate today and listening to the Minister's answers. We are, of course, doing the same thing. Suppose the Minister's answers reassure D66. What will Mrs Belhaj say, then, what will Mrs Belhaj do when we open the newspaper in a few months' time and encounter new revelations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	I do not think I can be reassured in general terms after everything that has happened. What I have tried to do with the questions I asked in my first term is to give the Minister the chance to really tell everything now. Now's the time. Are there any other things that the Minister thought: "I think I can say a little more generally"? Now is the time to tell everything she knows, whatever the Ministry knows, no matter how ugly it may be. If things haven't gone well, we need to know now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u28	Of course, we have had this moment at least four times, with all the debates we have had on this issue before. Do I understand now, Mrs Belhaj, that when this debate is over and the Minister has grasped the opportunity that Mrs Belhaj offers her, and then we open that newspaper again, we watch TV and we see new revelations again, as regards D66, the fifth debate that we are going to have, could be a very short debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u29	I get that question: a look at the future. I always like to be focused on what we're doing today, without looking at "what if." Today is the fourth time we have had this debate. The previous times we have taken very important, positive steps, something that did not succeed in the years before. That is also the acidic fact that such a horrible event in Hawija will lead to those steps being taken, even though we have said so many years before. Today it becomes important that the Minister not only tries to think "o, that question has not been asked," but also thinks "is Parliament entitled to do so and is it important for the future that everyone knows, next time we go on a mission, what are the important questions to ask?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mrs Belhaj says that the Minister now has the chance to say everything honestly. We want to know everything there is to report. That's what we want. That's what all MPs want. That is why in the written questions several Members of Parliament have also asked for them. The Minister has informed us, as is quite clearly stated in the answers, every time there was new information. Every time she got new information, she'd have informed us. Except, the Minister writes in the answers, when our ally says it's "classified," confidential. Then it's not up to me to make it public, she writes. My question to Mrs Belhaj is: if there is now information that has been classified, made confidential by the Americans and given in confidence to the Minister, does Mrs Belhaj think that the Minister should now make this confidential information public in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr Van Helvert knows, therefore, that I have to laugh a little bit about it, that if something is state secret or leads to dangers for our military, it is incredibly stupid to share that. That seems obvious to me. What's important is that you don't have to share classified information, but you can translate elements from it abstracted. One of the things in the report is that at that time we had too little knowledge about the effects of secondary explosions. You can also indicate that actively. We have had a small debate on what is in the report. Then I read that and think: you can say in a letter that in Hawija a number of things have not gone well, including how decision-making is going and what about secondary explosions. Then you don't have to tell me which bomb it was and what exactly is secret. That's what I'm talking about. It is not that we ask, that the Minister answers, and that we find out something and you say to me: yes, but you did not ask. We're not supposed to do that anymore. The Minister has her own job to think for herself and tell them what is important for the spokesmen, so that I do not have to read it in the newspaper in three months' time and then ask questions again and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u32	I'm glad Mrs. Belhaj doesn't think you share confidential information from allies. It's good to hear that. I think it is a good thing that we are trying to devote this debate to what we would like to change in the provision of information between the United States and the Netherlands in the event of another armed conflict. Then we really have a product of this debate and we do not just need to talk about how hard that fist was on the table of the minister with her colleague in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u33	That was a conclusion from Mr Van Helvert. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mrs. Belhaj has a lot of patience. This is the fourth debate we have on this subject. Mrs Belhaj has also expressed all her dissatisfaction with the way in which the Chamber is informed by the Minister. But this is the fourth debate and we are holding this debate not on the basis of what the Minister has said to the Chamber, but on the basis of what the Minister has not said and we have received in a different way. Mrs Belhaj also says: I think that the Minister should look much more closely at whether the Chamber is entitled to that information and whether the Chamber should know it. But how far does Mrs Belhaj's patience go? I think the Minister should also look much more actively for information. She shouldn't just look at the information she has. How far should the Minister go in this respect, according to Mrs Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u35	I think that the Minister should do so today to the maximum within the possibilities she has. There's no reason not to. I also sometimes notice in conversations that there is an image that we, as a parliament, only do this because we have no idea how that works. I look around in the Chamber and I see people with different expertises who have been foreign spokesperson or defence spokesperson for years, or who have been military myself. So take us seriously, Minister and Ministry of Defense. We can really handle uncomfortable facts and uncomfortable data. We look at that and we think: what is the ugly truth, but it is good that we know it, because now we as parliamentarians can do our job better. Eventually, the Ministry of Defence, the military and other stakeholders can do their job better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u36	That is clear, and it is clear that the Minister must operate within her capabilities. But look at those classified pieces, for example. The minister asks for that, and the ministry in America says, "You can't have it." Next, two newspapers appeal to the American Public Administration Act and without years going by, so relatively quickly, the press, the NRC and the NOS will get those documents. Doesn't Mrs Belhaj think that we should have just gotten it from the Minister and that the Minister should have done more to get those documents? If the press can get those documents, but the minister can't, then that can't be explained, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u37	That is right, and that is exactly why I asked the Minister that question. In my view, the WOB request has lasted a year and a half, so the journalists have also had to be very patient. But you say it well, and that is exactly why we asked the Minister that question. She needs to be able to explain that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u38	As far as I am concerned, this debate is also about whether we could have prevented civilian casualties. Now the Americans indicate that there was a chance of civilian casualties, while this minister has persisted in the fact that they did not know that civilian casualties could occur. So now it's really about the next question. There are two possibilities. Whether we, as the Netherlands, and the Dutch government have been paged by the Americans and this information has not been given to the Netherlands, or the Minister beeps the Chamber. Are there any other flavors as far as you're concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u39	I wouldn't use the word beeping so quickly, but it is important in a broad sense of course that if you want to know how something went and you want to know the truth, the entire Dutch population is entitled to it. We are doing this on behalf of Parliament. Military people are doing this on our behalf, because we believe it is right to fight those monsters of the ISIS fighters. That's what I'm saying from my toes because it's really horrible what they're doing. Once again, I think it is up to the Minister today to explain what has happened and whether it is indeed the intelligence. But then we run into each other again: if we do not know certain information, then the Minister must explain what she can say about it. Actually, that's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u40	That's not an answer to my question. I have indicated that there are actually two flavors. My question is actually very simple: is there a third or a fourth flavor as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u41	That's right, I didn't answer the question properly. Yes, there are endless flavors. In any case, my taste is that, in any debate, I strive to put content at the heart of it. I just want to know what happened. I want to make sure we learn from it. But then we really need to know what went wrong. I want us to have a normal, good, healthy relationship between Defence and Parliament, with the military, with Dutch society and also with our international partners. The Netherlands must grow up when it comes to how one deals with missions and when things go wrong. This sometimes takes more time, and that is why I focus on this content. That's my taste for progress, but first we need to know what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u43	It looked like the atomic bomb that was thrown on Hiroshima. That's what Alaa Qader Ridha told us yesterday in the House of Representatives. His house and shop were destroyed as a result of a Dutch bombing in June 2015. His son got a blind eye out of it. Alaa and his family are one of many victims who were injured or killed in June 2015. 400 homes have been destroyed and over 100 people have died according to residents. It is the largest misfit in the history of the Dutch Air Force. But when the Chamber asked about Dutch involvement in civilian deaths that month, Minister Hennis replied that this was not the case. A high Dutch soldier repeated that years later. In April 2018, this minister sent a letter to the Chamber about Dutch air strikes with potential civilian casualties. At that time 70 civilian deaths have been recorded for Hawija in the official CENTCOM count for a year, but the letter does not mention Hawija. Nor does it say that 70 civilian casualties have occurred or that civilian casualties have been committed at all. It says that "very likely" civilian casualties have occurred. When my party asks whether the Netherlands is responsible for Hawija, it remains silent. For more than four years there has been silence about Hawija and also about the attack on Mosul, Iraq, where four civilian deaths fell. During this silence, we have been told time and again in detail how extremely carefully the target selection process is and with what a great precision targets are eliminated. That's what it is. CENTCOM even posted a YouTube movie of such a successful precision attack in September 2015. It showed the elimination of a bomb factory. At least that's what was underneath. In reality, we watched the Dutch attack on Mosul, killing four civilians and zero IS fighters. The cover-up only came to an end when NRC and NOS investigative journalists forced the minister to open up last October. The Minister has been defending her actions since then with a reference to a protocol, which would show that the Chamber would not be informed about civilian casualties. But that protocol doesn't prove that at all, far from it. When the media revealed the lies, the minister confirmed the dead, to later deny this again. The Prime Minister, who was informed of the incident, suddenly could not remember anything, as was often the case. He even went so far that he called the number of 70 "irrelevant" and "a rumor." I find it very alienating to hear that from the mouth of a Prime Minister who has chosen to take part in a war with one of the greatest number of civilian casualties. The House of Representatives has repeatedly agreed to extend the war against ISIS, while it knew nothing about its consequences. That's unacceptable. In December I asked the Minister if the deaths of Hawija were included in the official CENTCOM count. Denial followed. Nonsense: the dead were counted by CENTCOM. We are now being asked to believe that CENTCOM misinformed the Minister. I just can't believe that. Finally, there have also been reports in recent months that there is a lot to do with investigations of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which would not have explicitly looked at legality, and that there were indeed preliminary indications that the attack on Hawija could lead to civilian casualties. Mr. Chairman. The victims have still not received a message from the minister. Neither has Alaa, who has lived in the Netherlands for four years. But also the thousands of unknown civilian victims, who do not end up in coalition statistics at all. That's the big lie. There are many more forgotten ones who are not even counted. The organisations on the ground know that the actual number of civilian casualties is much higher. Mr President, I will conclude. Disinformation about the Dutch contribution to a war is what we get presented time and time again. The dirty sides of a clean war had to be swept under the carpet for political reasons. We cannot do that and we cannot do that in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Six months ago, 71 Members of Parliament expressed their confidence in this minister, because she had informed the Chamber incorrectly, immemorially and incompletely about the terrible consequences of the bombing of Hawija in the night of 2 to 3 June 2015. After such a motion, as far as my group is concerned, it is obvious that the Minister will have ample opportunity to restore that confidence. She can surprise me in this debate, of course, but as far as I can tell, she has not grasped that opportunity. Whether it is about the recognition of what has happened, about preventing something like this from happening again, about transparency or about redress for the victims, it is too little, it is too late and it is with obvious reluctance. When will the government finally fully acknowledge that something terrible went wrong in the bombing of Hawija? First, the existence of civilian casualties is denied. After all, we only use the smartest precision bombs. Then there was the constant uncertainty about numbers. After all, we weren't allowed to say anything. Research was tricky. We didn't know if, where and how to register the victims. The Prime Minister, as has already been said, called the number of 70 even irrelevant. As we become increasingly clear after five years, it is evidently difficult for the government to express our regret, our sympathy and our co-responsibility for what has gone wrong. What's stopping you? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I come to transparency. The Minister likes to insist that she wants to increase it, but what has she actually done in the past six months? At the request of the Chamber, she asked her American colleague to make the investigations on the arms deployment in Hawija public. That Minister of Defense himself did not bother to answer; he had his acting Deputy Minister do the work. A diplomatic statement: "How dare you bother me with these kinds of questions?" The answer was therefore negative. The Dutch Parliament was not allowed to read the reports, not even confidentially. The minister didn't do anything. She left it at that. She didn't protest, she didn't insist, and she didn't bang her fist on the table. She swallowed it for sweets. Why did she leave it there, I'm asking her. It turned out that the United States deliberately opposed the Netherlands, a few weeks later, when the same documents could still be made public after an appeal to the Freedom of Information Act. As a result, we suddenly read how imperfect the procedures had been: in the assessment of collateral damage, the impact of secondary explosions was not counted, the CIA was not listened to, who warned about collateral damage, and the Dutch red card holder was not involved in important phases in the target development process. However, an in-depth evaluation and review of procedures was not possible. Whether the alarm bells went off at the Ministry and what conclusions did this lead to? I have no idea. Can the Minister clarify this? Finally, Mr President, compensation for victims. The Chamber has always insisted on this. There is now an interdepartmental committee of inquiry that identifies options. That's complicated, the Minister says. Moreover, it is still completely unclear when decisions will be taken. I do not think that is very decisive. I am curious to hear from the Minister when we can finally expect decisions on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch army has participated in a war against a gruesome enemy. Put simply, a bomb factory has been wiped to the ground. The occasional accidental civilian casualties in a war is terrible, but let us focus on the thousands of deaths that have been prevented by this operation. Let us be proud of our soldiers who carried out this operation with military precision. As far as I'm concerned, they get a ribbon for that. The question now is whether the Chamber has been misinformed. The simple answer is: yes, to three times. First, by Minister Hennis by letter of 23 June 2015. She reported that, as far as is known, no civilian deaths had occurred. That is incorrect, because it was previously personally briefed and in a CENTCOM report it said that people were likely to have died. Minister Bijleveld has apologized for this. On 27 November 2019, Mark Rutte speaks of a protocol to protect the safety of the kites and that therefore no information had gone to the Chamber for a number of years. But it turned out there was no protocol at all. On 19 December 2019, Minister Bijleveld provided information that differs from the later information provided by CENTCOM. This concerns in particular the weighting of the number of those 70 civilian deaths. The Court is therefore wrongly informed, but how culpable is this incorrect information? Of course, it doesn't help that no member of the government has military experience of his own. It's a shame our Prime Minister isn't here today. Next time I will ask him why he has not been in service; but that aside. The key question now is: how does the Minister himself weigh up this process? What has the Minister done since 24 March 2020 to avoid this kind of confusion in the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the night of 2 to 3 June 2015, Dutch bombs from Dutch F-16's fell at a Daesh arms factory. The explosions that occurred as a result of this attack wiped out an entire Iraqi residential area with 74 civilian casualties, 74 unnecessary and innocent victims of the war on terror. The then 67-year-old resident of Hawija Hassan Mahmoud Al-Jubbouri says: "I helped to get a family of six people out of the rubble. Their bodies were mutilated. We brought a blanket. We wrapped all the body parts in it and brought them to the cemetery." Mr. Chairman. An entire Iraqi residential area has been destroyed. People have been traumatized and lost their loved ones. These people are waiting until today for answers. But to the great regret of the next of kin and all the other people who crave clarity, the attack on Hawija has been shrouded in ambiguity for years. Crucial information is not shared. In fact, incorrect information has been shared. This began with former Minister Hennis-Plasschaert who did not share with the Chamber that civilian casualties have occurred, but this Minister also did not share crucial information about the attack in Hawija with the Chamber or even misinformed the Chamber. Although the number of 74 civilian casualties by the United States has been referred to as more likely than not for some time and is even included in official statistics, this was denied by this minister and even dismissed by the Prime Minister as a rumor and a irrelevant number. Why share false information all this time, I wonder. Why is the government finally not prepared to acknowledge that more than 70 civilian casualties are likely to have occurred? Then the information known to the Ministry but not shared with the Chamber. Why is it that so much has not been shared with the Chamber, for example the information that following the attack on Hawija the recommendation has been made to take better account of possible victims from secondary explosions? The fact that this was not shared because it concerned classified information is not convincing because that information was later shared with media by the United States. What this cabinet in the United States did not succeed, the media could. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the central question is whether the attack should have taken place at all, the question is whether it is justified to throw bombs at a weapons factory 150 meters away from a residential area, a residential area completely destroyed by the attack. Four informants on the ground indicated that there was a risk of civilian casualties due to the proximity of that residential area. In fact, it is literally stated in American documents by those involved that someone could reasonably have concluded that civilian casualties could have been caused by the attack. Was this known to the Netherlands? Was this known to the Dutch red card holder? What else was known at the red card holder and is the Minister prepared to share that information with us? On the basis of the information available at the time, shouldn't a red card have been drawn? Is it true that another country did draw that red card and, if so, why? How can you conclude that the targeting process went well when it was subsequently concluded that the whole process needs to be improved? Has anything really been done to prevent civilian casualties? Have all possible measures been taken to prevent civilian casualties? Finally, Mr President. Dozens of Iraqis hold the State liable for the material and intangible damage caused by the Dutch bombing of Hawija. DENK wants to know from the government when the Dutch State will generously compensate the next of kin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. "We support our military. It's tragic to have civilian casualties, but that factory didn't explode in vain the way it exploded. That means there was a lot of dangerous stuff stored there that could have killed thousands and thousands of people." The SGP Group endorses these final remarks by our Prime Minister Rutte during the debate on 27 November. And today's debate is also taking place in the shadow of the terror of IS. As one of the victims said, it is not the Netherlands but ISIS that is to blame. Yet today the SGP Group sees a number of urgent questions to the Minister of Defence. These questions focus on two main issues: the prevention of civilian casualties and the information position of the government and parliament. My first question is: can Parliament trust that everything really has been done and is being done to prevent civilian casualties in the future? Is the current targeting process optimally designed for this purpose? Because we understand that the Dutch red card holder regarding Hawija did have information from the so-called CDE methodology and the additional investigation into secondary explosions, but that he did not have an additional investigation and warning from the CIA about the risk of civilian casualties. Should the procedure not be set up differently, for example by making the real risk of secondary explosions part of the CDE method? Secondly, it is troubling the SGP Group that it has taken so long on this important issue to clarify what was happening now. This obviously applies both to the department and to the government itself. But that also concerns the provision of information to the House of Representatives. Parliament simply needs to be able to clarify these serious issues quickly and accurately. As far as I am concerned, all this calls for a good information position, either through allies or by means of independent information. My questions to the Minister are as follows. Does the Minister agree that cooperation with the US could and should be improved both before and after arms deployments? And, related to this, is the Netherlands sufficiently capable of gathering information itself where necessary? Of course, it is impossible to do everything ourselves in a coalition context, but do we have sufficient basic capacity, including in the field of intelligence, to carry out research or further investigation when this is necessary? Or does this require additional investment? For the SGP Group, it is very important for our country to show its ability to learn. In terms of targeting process, intelligence gathering and intelligence sharing, together with allies, and in terms of information flows, both internally and for good accountability towards parliament. I repeat, in the case of Dutch participation in missions where civilian deaths may occur, our information position must be in order. That starts with the one who has to make the decision about the attack or not. He must not only use sterile technical calculations, but also bring information with him in view of the real danger of civilian casualties. But that is also necessary within the government and for informing the Chamber, I say. Mr. Chairman. I'm shutting down the way I started. The acts of terror of ISIS begged for justice and security. Dutch diplomats and military, also within our intelligence service and our air force, are committed to that peace and security. They deserve our utmost respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mrs Karabulut has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u53	However, I was curious to hear the SGP Group's opinion on the fact that over and over again we have been disinformed by this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u54	I think we have already had three debates before this. At the time, the Minister said a great deal about this and apologized to those who were concerned. But we also decided at some point whether we were sufficiently informed by this minister, by the Prime Minister. We have put this question very strongly, also from our group. At that time, our opinion was: yes, we have been sufficiently informed. So in that respect, I do not have the impression that the Minister has de-informed us. With what she had, she informed us every time it came to her. But it's not an independent position. Hence my questions as I ask them here. Is our intelligence position, even towards the future, sufficiently in order? 'Cause there's a really bad point there. Let's be clear about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u55	That is indeed a separate point, which I would like to talk to you about all day, but that is not possible. You are making a run for it, because something happened after those three debates. Namely: last December, the Minister swore to us that in no way do the 70 civilian casualties have been taken into account by the Americans since 2017. Now she has to admit it. Another specific point I would like to put to you. The Prime Minister and this Minister of Defence have repeatedly, in defence of why they could or could not inform the Chamber confidentially about the civilian victims, introduced a protocol that would prove impossible. We've received that protocol through WOB and a thousand-and-one questions by now, with a lot of pain and effort. This shows that there is no obstacle to informing the Chamber. What do you think of that? Then a second thing. Another coalition country has refused the attack according to Airwars. I'll ask the minister to do that, but the minister won't ask. For example, there are countless things that you can really put under the given "disinformation." So please judge what happened afterwards, after those debates that you thought the Prime Minister suffered a bit of amnesia. The Secretary of Defense is getting a little carried away, but then she misinformed us again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman. Those are the questions that have already been asked by my fellow Members and which are part of my contribution. We'll get an answer to that later. For the moment, I have the impression that if there was information coming from anywhere, it was shared with us. I also have the impression that the Minister has taken many steps. If that is enough, we will assess it in the second term. In my view, after the debates that have taken place and now, we have seen that the Minister has made a strong effort to get information on the table. But I would still say that this is not enough and that this intelligence position, the flow of information between the US and the Netherlands, is not optimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I call Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u58	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking again today about the Hawija air strike, which unfortunately has resulted in civilian casualties. That's terrible. Just in a year in which we celebrate our own freedom and still have the opportunity to talk to the victims of bombing in our own country, we know how terrible bombardments are, how horrible war is and how terrible victims are. This despite the coalition's policy to fight against ISIS to minimise civilian casualties, despite the fact that our pilots are doing everything they can to destroy only that goal, and despite a careful process: an assessment of the risks of accidental collateral damage and mitigation measures to minimise these risks. The goal: a bomb factory of IS that was located on an industrial site. The nearest residential homes were outside the pre-planned damage zone. The air strike was deliberately carried out at night with precise ammo. However, the damage was much greater than estimated as a result of an exceptionally large secondary explosion. Before and after Hawija, thirteen similar bomb factories were successfully eliminated. The explosion in Hawija was exceptional. Mr. Chairman. Recently, under pressure from a legal procedure, the United States has made public documents on the arms deployment in Hawija under the Freedom of Information Act, the U.S. WOB. These documents were previously classified and should not be made public, not even to the minister who asked for them at the request of the Chamber and who could not therefore be shared with the Chamber earlier. On 21 April last, the Secretary of Defense sent them to the Chamber immediately after they were public. Thank you for that. They provide an even more detailed insight. There's no evidence that our military is to blame. No one in this Chamber has ever said that either. That's perfectly right. The CDA is proud of the commitment of our F-16 pilots and all other soldiers involved in the fight against ISIS. At the risk of their own lives, they helped defeat the barbarism and saved many lives. The fight against ISIS was and is a fight against evil. Unfortunately, civilian casualties are also inevitable. What is very important here is that I would really like to take this debate a step further, and that is how we are showing learning ability, for example in determining the purpose, the targeting process and the provision of information to the Chamber. What agreements can we better make about this and what agreements with allies, with the United States, can we make better if we are in an armed conflict together? That is also the main question for the Minister: what plan are you putting on the table, Madam Secretary? Because the Minister states that she herself is dissatisfied with this. What plan does the Minister have? How does the information go in the targeting process and how can we better capture it? How do we better record the information to the Chamber in a subsequent armed conflict and how do we better record the agreements with the United States in a subsequent armed conflict? Can you do that in an article 100 letter? Is the Minister prepared to look into that? Mrs Belhaj has a point there: if we are not satisfied with the way in which the information has gone, we must ensure that we have improved in the event of a subsequent armed conflict and that we have demonstrated that ability to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u59	The CDA spokesman indicated that the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber as soon as possible, on 21 March. Does he think the Minister has been fully involved in informing the Chamber? The second question is whether, according to the CDA spokesperson, information on 21 March is at odds with the information previously shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u60	I was referring to the information contained in the letter of 21 April, but I assume you mean it; I see that that is the case. That question is justified. The question you are asking is whether the Minister has given all the information. The Minister, in his comprehensive answer to the many questions we have asked about them, indicated at what time she received information and shared that information directly with the Chamber. That is also because the Minister promised us in the first debate on Hawija that she would be in favour of greater transparency. That's because we had a different way of working five years ago than we want to go to right now. It is true, therefore, that over time a number of information issues have gone differently from how we intend to do it now, but that is true because we as a Chamber also had a different agreement with the Ministry on how we would do it. We are not happy with that; you are not, the CDA is not, Mrs Belhaj is not, nor is the SP. That is why we have asked the Minister for greater transparency. She said, "I do." From that moment on, she has shared everything she has received, except information that the United States says is our report; it is confidential and you cannot share it. Of that, the Minister says that it is not up to her to share. She says she did try to get that out to the public, first through the official line and through the ambassador. Finally, she herself sent a letter to the colleague, but she did not receive the information. Through a WOB procedure, it has been legally enforced that it did become public. As a result, the journalist got it earlier than we saw it as a Chamber, and we do not like it. Mrs Belhaj has a point. That is why my question to the Minister is: how are we going to better define agreements with the United States in a next armed conflict, so that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u61	No one in this Chamber is against transparency. This is exactly where we have been talking about in the last three debates, because I would also like to remind Mr Van Helvert that this is the fourth debate on this terrible issue that took place in June 2015. Everyone is in favour of transparency. The reason why we are having a debate here is precisely the lack of transparency, and that is because journalists have managed to achieve what this minister and this government have failed to achieve. I ask Mr Van Helvert as spokesman for the CDA, an important coalition party, whether his party believes that the Minister has done enough to get the information that the Americans initially considered classified, except by sending a letter, addressing the ambassador and so on? Does he think that enough has been done to get that information up and running?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u62	I have the very clear impression that the Minister has tried in many ways to get that information out to the public. Yeah, I got that impression. In addition, I have to say that if you agree with an ally that a report is confidential, it is not up to another country to disclose it. If Minister Kaag were to go abroad and other countries would make its confidential reports public without consultation, we would not want them to. So it is not for a Dutch minister to unilaterally disclose a confidential American report. I don't think we should want that either. Where I think the irritation lies in this Chamber and this Minister too, it is through that WOB request, through the judicial procedure, that the Minister of Defence was forced to do it, which forced journalists to have the information before us, rather than the Minister. And we don't want that. You don't want that, the SP doesn't want that, Mrs Belhaj doesn't want that, and neither do we. That is why my question to the Minister is: how are we going to better define the agreements with the United States if we are in a conflict together next time? Is the article-100 letter a moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u63	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u64	...to which we could judge that as a chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mrs Karabulut and then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr Van Helvert, by the way, is distorting the truth. The truth is that it has been agreed with the Chamber that we would be informed about civilian casualties, that this has been known since 2015 and that this Minister has also failed to inform us on several occasions. That was a very clear appointment with the House of Representatives. It wasn't the agreement that they wouldn't inform us. That is what the Minister and the Prime Minister claimed, invoking a protocol. Then we asked about that protocol. That protocol shows that they decide on a case-by-case basis who or what is to be informed. Two. The number of civilian casualties has been known since 2017. The Minister misinformed us about this last December. So my question to Mr Van Helvert is: do you accept as a popular representative that you do not have the information to control the government on an important matter such as war and peace, on an important matter such as bombing? Do you accept that? And if you don't accept that, what do you think of this disinformation we've been seeing for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u67	We said that we were not satisfied with the way in which we informed the Chamber a few years ago, for example in 2015. The SP and we have asked the Minister to set up a better process for this: more transparency. The Minister said right when she took office: I am going to do that. As a result, a number of things from the past emerged very quickly, namely from the Hawija bombings. 'Cause then there was a deal about the ongoing mission. If it is in the interests of the mission, or in the interests of the safety of the kites, or in the national interest not to share it during the ongoing mission, then we do not share it. That's an assessment that the Department of Defense is allowed to make. And I'm also okay with that assessment being made by the Defense Department. Now, after the mission, this information comes up. So I find it wrong to blame Mrs Karabulut for making the SP, that we have not been informed or misinformed or misinformed since 2015. What we have said is that we want it to be different and that we are going to do it differently. That is why we are still talking about the 2015 case, and I agree with that. My question is because Mrs Karabulut of the SP also wants us not to go into such a situation again in an armed conflict: how is the Minister going to ensure that the agreements with the United States, but also with the Chamber, are better organised so that we can check before the mission starts as a Chamber whether we find the right way to talk about them and be informed about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u68	Good. Your final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u69	The question then is: is Article 100 the right place for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u70	Your last question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u71	I really get the impression that Mr Van Helvert, just like the minister, like the cabinet, simply doesn't want to know the truth. The protocol allowed us to be informed, and we were not informed, not even confidentially. The minister only told and confirmed an incident like Mosul, where some of the videos were posted on YouTube, when the journalists revealed it. When I asked her in December whether or not the 70 were part of the figures, she informed us wrong again. So I think Mr Van Helvert does not mind at all that we have been disinformed. Does he accept that and wants to make the flight forward? Mr President, I find that rather shocking, rather shocking in a case such as war and peace, where the Netherlands and the Netherlands remain solely responsible for the bombing and its consequences. It's not gonna wear the U.S., it's not gonna wear another country, it's gonna wear us. And we're all entitled to that truth. I find it really shocking that the CDA group is handling it so easily and so creatively, and is actually laundering here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u72	First of all, what the CDA wants is that we never need to participate in an armed conflict anymore. Unfortunately, we can't rule that out yet. As soon as there is another armed conflict, the CDA wants us to better coordinate communication on the flow of information in the targeting process with the Chamber and communication with the United States. That's what the CDA wants, so that we can actually communicate and control better than we did in 2015 because then we had other agreements, which we all think are less good. Therefore, it is very clear and it is quite clear that the CDA absolutely wants to know what the truth is about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u73	What strikes me in Mr Van Helvert's speech is that he is actually satisfied with what the Minister has done in terms of transparency. He will say, "We have asked her. She thinks it's important, too. If things don't go well, it's because the United States doesn't want to." But isn't it true that all the transparency that has been there in recent years came to light in the media, whether it were NRC, the NOS or others, after which the minister couldn't do more than send a letter to the House of Representatives and say: "Yes, it is true. There's been a lot of civilian deaths in Hawija"? In Mr Van Helvert's view, is that really the merit of the cabinet or this minister, or does he see, as I do, that each time it was a little late after a piece had appeared in the newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u74	Sure, the paper is sooner than a minister. We have that on many fronts. That is absolutely true, and so is this Minister. I can see that the Minister said immediately when she took office: I am going for more transparency. That is a path that must be taken. What I do not share with Mr Van Ojik is the conclusion he has just drawn that the CDA is happy and satisfied, because that is precisely not the case. We want this to go better. We want it to be better when it comes to what information is involved in the targeting process and what is true. We want us to agree in advance on how to be informed as a Chamber. And we want us to better agree on what we do with information flows and the disclosure of information from the United States. That's what we want better. So I do not think that Mr Van Ojik's conclusion is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u75	I draw that conclusion because Mr Van Helvert himself has just said here that he thinks that this Minister has done enough on this point. We are not debating here with the US Secretary of Defense, but we are debating with the Dutch Minister of Defence. We'll check if she's done enough after she's got that diplomatic address with that letter from that Deputy Secretary, Deputy Minister, Deputy Minister or Acting Deputy Minister. She didn't do anything with that. Nothing! And then came the WOB procedure. That's a good thing, 'cause that's what's gonna help us figure out what's gonna be better. If it had not been for that procedure, we would not have had this debate. Then we would have satisfied ourselves with a note from the Deputy Minister of America, who said to this minister, "What are you meddling in?" That was the meaning of that letter, which was not even answered by her colleague. That's what happened, Mr. Van Helvert. I find it incomprehensible that you should say: I am actually satisfied with what this cabinet has done on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u76	I do not agree with Mr Van Ojik. He says you're satisfied. That's not true. If we were happy, I wouldn't have to stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u77	Sorry. Mr Van Helvert literally said: the Minister has done enough, enough. I don't agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'm going to make a difference in the following: within the scope of the agreements that were there with the United States. If something has been made confidential by the United States, then you do not reveal it unilaterally. Within these agreements, the Minister can at some point no more than that. If we send a minister with a confidential report abroad, we do not agree with that country unilaterally saying: you think it is a confidential report, but we are nevertheless making it public. I don't think you should want this as an allies either. So in my view, the minister couldn't do much within the agreed process either. We will soon hear how hard the Minister's fist was on the table. That's what Mrs Belhaj wants to know. We'll get back to you. You say nothing has been done. You don't know that. The Minister will answer that question shortly. Then we say: we want to organise the process differently, so that we know better in advance what we can ask of the Americans at what moments, so that we do not stand here again. I think that's what we all want. So that's why I'm saying that the CDA is definitely not satisfied with the way things are going. In fact, we want us to better define in a possible future armed conflict how the flow of information runs through such a targeting process, how the flow of information flows into the Chamber and how the flow of information flows out of the United States or another ally. That is what we demand. My question is: how can we check as a room in advance? Is the Article 100 letter a good time for that? I put that question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u79	I'd like to get on with that for a while. I also heard Mr Van Helvert say that he felt that the Minister had done enough. I would like to give a very specific example, for which I would like to return to 5 November last year. We had the first of a series of debates on Hawija. At the time, the Minister said that the bombing went wrong, there were victims, but everything went according to the procedures. It has been said time and time again: we have nothing to blame and it has all been done in accordance with the procedures. Well, yesterday we read in the NRC that on 25 September of the same year, almost four months later, those procedures were changed. Apparently, those procedures were not good enough when it comes to bombing bomb factories in populated areas. They've changed, but we haven't heard from the minister. We heard the Minister say, four years later, that the procedures were good. Then why didn't the Minister also say that the procedures have changed? I'll ask the Minister the same question. However, I would also like to put this question to Mr Van Helvert, because Mr Van Helvert believes that the Minister has done enough. Shouldn't the Minister have shared that with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u80	The CDA would like to see the Minister have more tools in his hands to get the things the Chamber would like to know. The question is what the Minister can and cannot share. Some things the Minister is not allowed to share, she is not allowed to share. The dissatisfaction that Mr Wassenberg shows here about the provision of information from the United States to the Netherlands, about procedures or no procedures, is also with us. That discontent is also with the Minister. The Minister said the same thing. So we're actually pulling that cart the same way. I would therefore like to say that, as a Chamber, let us keep moving in the same direction, with better agreements. Let us think how we can better establish that we will be able to check as a Chamber that the targeting process is correct and that we can check in advance whether the information flows are going well. Let us make sure that the information provided to the Chamber is correct and good, as we want to be informed in advance, and that we have checked in advance whether the flow of information and the disclosure of information from the United States is correct. This means that the Minister has all the tools in his hands to be able to demand what was agreed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u81	That was a very comprehensive answer to a question that was not asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr. Van Helvert always responds extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u83	It wasn't just a comprehensive answer. It was also an answer to a question that was not asked. I understand the Minister is not allowed to share confidential, classified information. However, I did not ask you to do that either. What the Minister said at the time was: the proper procedures have been followed. Over and over again it has been said that it had gone according to the proper procedures. The minister knew at that time that the procedures had changed, because the Netherlands was still in Iraq and the red card holder was still there. The Netherlands, Defense, knew that the procedures had changed. Nevertheless, the Minister said time and time again: everything went according to the procedures. If you don't dare, can or want to share that it's changed, don't you hold on to those procedures that you know have changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u84	The point is a little bit that we now look back after five years. If you follow a procedure at the time it happened, and you do it well, then the procedure has been well followed. If it is said afterwards that this procedure is not good and that we are going to change it, then you have new procedures. However, this does not mean that the procedures were not properly followed at the time they were followed. That's the difference. I think you're gonna end up in some kind of word game we don't want to have. If we are to participate in an armed conflict, if we are to have a possible, unexpected next time, we want to have exactly the information we want as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u85	I think that's a very cynical approach. The moment you know that the procedures have changed, it is difficult to say, very cynically said: surgery succeeded, patient died? You know it's changed. You cannot insist in your information to the Chamber that the proper procedures have been followed, the procedures have been followed, the procedures have been followed. If you know those procedures weren't good, then you can use other words, or say you can't go into them. However, you are not going to stick to those procedures, which have long been obsolete and which have been changed over the years because of the damage caused by the bombing of Hawija. As a result, these procedures have changed. I think that, as a minister, you cannot stick to the good procedures that were followed at the time. I would like to hear from Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u86	Neither does the Cabinet, nor does the United States. That's why they've changed. But then you cannot say retroactively: they did not do that procedure well at the time. At that time, the procedure was different. We're not holding on. The procedure has changed and, more importantly, we want it to change even more. If we change procedures now, if procedures have changed three years ago, then you cannot say now: our military did not go through the procedures properly five years ago. They did, because the procedure was different at the time. After that, everything changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u87	I would like to remind Mr Van Helvert that the spokesperson of a coalition colleague of his, Mrs Belhaj of D66, has critically assessed the Minister's information on this matter. She has done so in harsh terms. Over the last few days, she has said in the media that she is fully ready with the way in which this minister informs the Chamber. She is fully done with the way in which a minister of your party is acting towards the Chamber. What does Mr Van Helvert think of that, I ask through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u88	I heard those words too, and they are indeed harsh. That is why, in an interruption, I told Mrs Belhaj the answers that were already known. I share with Mrs Belhaj the displeasure about how we should work with the Americans, about what should and should not be shared with the Chamber, about the flow of information in a targeting process. I share that displeasure, and it also emotionalizes me or angers me. I may put it differently, but the anger is absolutely the same with me. What I do not share with Mrs Belhaj is that we would not be properly informed. Every time the minister got information, she sent it right to the Chamber, whether it was good news or bad news, except when an ally said: hey, but this information is confidential; it's our report; you can't share that. The Minister also stated in his reply that it is not for me to disclose a confidential report from another country. In my view, the Minister is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr Van Helvert made it very clear that he shared some displeasure with Mrs Belhaj about the Minister's actions, but that was not my question. My question was: what do you think of Mrs Belhaj's performance in this story about your minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u90	It is not for me to judge Mrs Belhaj's performance here. I'm checking the government here. I said I heard Mrs Belhaj's words and found them hard. I also have anger about the procedures, but I might put them differently. But I have the same anger about how things are going now. We need to be able to do better, but we need to make arrangements for that first, because now the Minister can only do it with the tools she has. I would like to give more tools to the Minister, and I think you would like to do so, so that next time as a Chamber we can check that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u91	Last question, Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u92	Finally, Mr President. Was there any displeasure with you about Mrs Belhaj's performance or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u93	No, there's no displeasure. I believe that any representative of the people is entitled to say so. We're proud of that in this country, too. That does not mean that you are always in agreement, but I rarely have any displeasure about the performance of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u94	We have heard Mr Van Helvert say that he is satisfied with the transparency shown by the Minister. Let me remind him that we have a debate every two months on the lack of transparency. We have also heard him say that he is satisfied with the written answers given by the Minister to previous written questions. Well, I'd like to pick one out of there. The story goes, as Mr Van Helvert also knows, that another coalition partner would have refused to carry out the bombing at the weapons store in Hawija, because there would be too many risks of civilian casualties. That's what we've been asked about. The Minister's answer is that the Netherlands is not aware that another country would have refused that attack. Such a term 'not known', is that an answer that satisfies Mr Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u95	Yeah, I think that's just Dutch. There's not a word of Spanish. If you don't know something, you say, "I don't know." You can also say: I'm not familiar with it. Then I'm assuming the Minister isn't familiar with it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u96	This does not include a word of Spanish, but does Mr Van Helvert not feel the need to ask through? Whether "not known" means that there has been no refusal of another country at all? Whether that "not known" means that this has not been communicated to the Netherlands or that the Netherlands has not asked for it? If we get these kinds of answers, I think it is a little short-sighted to say: I am satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u97	Countries may refuse missions, parts of missions or deployment, thank God. The Netherlands sometimes refuses a mission, part of a mission or a commitment. Let's keep it that way, please. Is it impossible for another country to refuse? Yes, we can, especially since we know that our pilots, our kites, are delivering almost the best precision bombings in the whole world. So I can imagine that another country sometimes says: well, leave that to the professionals of the Netherlands. But I'm not familiar with it, I don't know. The Minister is not familiar with it either, and she wrote it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u98	Now I was under the impression that my question to Mr Van Helvert did not contain a word of Spanish either, and that question was very clear. The question wasn't whether they'd ever refuse. The question is whether Mr Van Helvert also wants to know that in this case there is a country that has refused to carry out that bombing, that in this case there is a country that has refused to do so because the risks of civilian casualties may be too great. That's the question I'm asking him. Does Mr Van Helvert not think that he should know that too, rather than saying 'I am satisfied with the answers', if they are not really answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u99	What I want to know is whether everything is being done to prevent civilian casualties. You can see that this is happening and that this is the constant commitment of all all allies in the fight against ISIS, including in the Netherlands and also in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr. Chairman. The first debate in two months that is not about the corona crisis. Then there's got to be something going on and there's got to be something going on. We are talking today about the credibility of our Minister of Defence, again for the fourth time now, because the truth seems to be different from what has been said before. I have said it before: you cannot always see from the outside whether something is the result of a conscious strategy or a succession of mistakes. But I've gotten to the point where I'm just as sorry about both of them. Because it is bad if a few persevering journalists get more information than we receive. If we are better informed by the media than by our own minister. If we have to read in the newspaper that the Americans have been talking about 70 civilian casualties in their statistics for a few years, when it is said here that no number is known. If we read in the newspaper that those same Americans saw great risks in the attack in Hawija and that another country would therefore have thanked for carrying out this attack. If we have to read in the newspaper that the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, other than suggested, didn't suggest very much. And if the Minister promises to be ever more transparent than all of her predecessors, but we are having more and more debates about the lack of transparency. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for the Minister. How hard has she tried to get the Americans to share more information? How hard did she try to find out what information the Americans themselves have shared, towards their own representatives, for example, or in public publications? How hard did the Minister address her American counterpart when he high-ranked on the importance of careful and consistent communication between allies, say what the Minister himself said was missing? How hard has the Minister been for the victims? Is there any contact with the local authorities, with representatives of victims and with victims themselves? The PvdA Group needs answers to get a clearer picture. Of what has happened, but certainly of what the Minister has done to regain the confidence of the Chamber. If you look at the written answers given to earlier questions, they do not automatically offer much hope for clear answers. For example, the Minister says that it cannot be confirmed that CENTCOM has shared images of other bombings on the Internet. What does that mean: unconfirmed? That those images were never made public? Or that the DOD didn't actually investigate that? Never Googled once, so to speak? In those same answers, the Minister says that the Netherlands is "not aware" that another country would have refused the attack in Hawija because the risk of civilian casualties would be too great. "Unfamiliar." Does that mean that there has been no such refusal, that the Netherlands has not been told, or that we have not asked? For example, the Minister says that "so far" questions about specific other bombings have always been answered that "as far as Defence knows, the Netherlands has not been involved." "So far." Does that mean just a few more questions and then there will be another answer? And "as far as DOD knows." Could that mean that there could be Dutch involvement, while the Defence Department itself does not know about it? That seems unlikely to me. They are all wordings that seem to come more from a lawyer who does not want to play an open game than from a minister who wants to regain the confidence of the Chamber. Got to win back, too. Finally, Mr President. The starting point in the fight against IS was that it would not be bombed if civilian casualties could occur. There was a bomb factory in Hawija. But less than 200 meters away there was also a residential area. They didn't know how many bombs were in that factory and how big the final blast would be. The effect of so-called secondary explosions was also not automatically in the so-called targeting process. Can the Minister explain why it was finally decided to carry out that attack?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u102	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Mr Wassenberg has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u103	Thank you, Mr President. This is the fourth debate on the civilian victims of the horrible bombing of Hawija. An entire residential neighborhood in ruins, at least 70 dead, a Minister of Defense and its predecessor who have informed the Chamber incompletely and incorrectly not once, but repeatedly. Six months ago, on 4 November, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber entitled Transparency Civil Victims. "Transparency." But in the months after that, we depended on the press to get crucial information about the bombing and its aftermath. It is significant that this debate, like the previous three debates, is not about what the Minister has shared with the Chamber, but about what she has not shared with the Chamber, about what she has withheld. The first victim of a war is usually the truth. It will be very difficult to get rid of it in this matter as well. The Minister must have the courage to look the Chamber in the eye. With military missions, the Netherlands says to promote security and protect citizens, but if for some reason, if things go wrong, then you must at least be transparent and honest about it afterwards. The Secretary of Defense has done so far not enough, and sometimes not at all. Over the past few months, the Minister has tried to patch others up by means of all kinds of detours and declarations. At first her predecessor had done it, then the Prime Minister knew about it and now, the Chamber had to believe, it was the Americans' fault that important pieces could not be shared with the Chamber. But how is it possible for the Chamber to get information again from an American report that the Minister said was confidential? Why didn't the minister go after it himself? Because NRC and the NIS will get the report. How is that possible? Speaking of information from an ally, why did the Prime Minister call the number of 70 civilian deaths "a rumor" at the end of 2019, whereas the Americans have it in their statistics since 2017? I'd like an answer from the Minister. I would like to return to the debate on 5 November, on which I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Helvert. Then the Minister said that everything had gone according to the procedures. According to the Minister, that was not the case. But what the minister didn't say at the time and what the Chamber didn't know was that the procedures had changed a few months after the bombing of Hawija on 25 September 2015. These are the procedures for bombing bombs at ISIS bomb factories in or near inhabited areas. Why didn't the Minister report it back then? Why did she then, on 5 November, pretend there was nothing wrong with the procedure followed? So things were wrong, otherwise it wouldn't have changed. The Minister knew that. The Chamber didn't know that. Does the Minister admit that she has not informed the Chamber fully again since the very last debate in December, and that she has not been proactively informed, or even checked whether the information she gave the Chamber was correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u104	Well, let's talk about the procedure. The moment a procedure is agreed and you follow it, that is the procedure followed, which is correct. I'm just quoting Brig-Gen Ducheine, professor, military lawyer, in the Volkskrant this morning. "The important thing is how you made your assessments in advance and whether they were justified. If you seem to have been wrong because you've misjudged something, you can see if that's a culpable wrong assessment. But war law is a fairly realistic rule of law, which takes into account the fact that you cannot know or foresee everything, but that there is a certain degree of uncertainty. Especially in conflicts where you are not on the spot." So it's weird to assume there was something wrong with the procedure because it's changed. I can tell you that a lot of procedures are dealt with very regularly within the Defense Department, because it is a learning organisation, fortunately. So I am looking for the answer to the question: is it now a reproach that the procedure has been amended, or do you think that the procedure that has been followed is not correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u105	I understand that at the time the procedure was followed as it was then. Nor is it a reproach that the procedure has been amended. It is a reproach that we have not been informed that this procedure has been amended. Because on 5 November we heard: nothing went wrong; it all went according to the procedures. The Minister could have already said at that time that these procedures were apparently not quite fine and have therefore changed; that happened on 25 September, if I remember correctly and as the newspaper said. At any rate, the Minister should not have fully supported these procedures at that time, because we did not know what the Minister did know at that time. After all, the Netherlands was still in Iraq and the red card holder was still there at the time. The Netherlands knew, the minister knew, the red card holder knew that those procedures had changed. The Chamber didn't know that. In that debate on 5 November, you cannot say: nothing wrong with it, we followed the procedures. Well, at least you could have said something about it being different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u106	That might be possible, but in principle, in the discussion we are having, the answer to the question is whether that commitment was justified at that time, yes. Has the procedure been followed? The answer to that is yes. Was the procedure careful? The answer to that is yes. Afterwards you say, with wisdom afterwards, that things should have been different, but you can never have that discussion. The intention is: what does Mr Wassenberg intend to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u107	The question that Mr Bosman does not ask, but which is an important question, was the procedure that had been followed up to then all right? At the time when the procedure following the bombing of Hawija is changed, you can conclude that that procedure was not in order. That is a question we must ask, that is a question the Minister should have asked, and that is information that should have been shared with us at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister admit that she has not fully and proactively informed the Chamber again since the last debate in December, and has not even checked whether the information she shared with the Chamber was correct? Then I come to taking responsibility. Military missions and reconstruction are two sides of the same coin. You can't destroy a residential area, even if it's unintentional, and then leave the civilians in the rubble. Victims are entitled to answers. What country is responsible for the death of innocent civilians? And to whom can the next of kin and victims seek compensation? Mr. Chairman. Finally, about the damages. That hasn't worked out yet. I understand that victims and survivors of the bombing want to start a lawsuit because their families and their future have been bombed. That's insufferable. The Netherlands only cares about the victims when asked by the Chamber, with dozens of deadly civilian victims and hundreds of wounded? Figure it out? Why don't you start a lawsuit? That's impossible, isn't it? I ask the government to take responsibility. It is not a question of legal equality; it is a matter of moral responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u110	Well, here's the thing. In military war law, the country itself is responsible for the settlement of damages. That's where the first claims must end. That's where the first conversations have to take place. I am therefore very curious whether Mr Wassenberg also thinks that Iraq should get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u111	I am here in the parliament of the Netherlands, not Iraq. I am therefore addressing the Dutch Minister. The Netherlands carried out those bombings. This has all been done in accordance with the procedures; we have just discussed it. But the Netherlands also has a moral duty, a moral responsibility. If I may be quite frank, this whole legal procedure will undoubtedly be fought. That might take years. But I really don't think the Minister should let it get that far. The Netherlands has bombed a bomb factory in a way that should not have happened. In fact, we all agree on that. Too many people have died. Hundreds of people have been injured. This wasn't supposed to happen this way. Mr Bosman and I agree on this. I also believe that the Netherlands has a moral duty to face these victims and to financially compensate them for their future, which has been bombed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u113	It is therefore a moral responsibility and not a legal one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr Voordewind has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What happened in the night of 2 to 3 June 2015 in the Iraqi Hawija is terrible. Due to the wobbled pieces we now know about the precise damage to hundreds of buildings in an area of possibly up to 3 kilometers. But what is even worse is the number of victims, the number of people killed and the number of wounded. We know from the e-mails and reports that are now finally public that there are probably at least 70 victims. Of course, the goal was a military target: a storage facility of ammunition and explosives, which wanted to use the brutal war machine called ISIS to make many more innocent victims. Yes, there has been a thorough process to rule out civilian casualties as much as possible. We heard that again yesterday in the briefing. I have to say that I did get a feeling of "surgery passed, patient died." That's harsh. The Deputy CDS, the Commander of the Armed Forces, also indicated that if he had had more information on the amount of explosives stored there, the decision might have been different. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about how we can prevent such terrible events. Can we stop it? And what information should the Dutch red card holder possibly get? What information should we, as a chamber, perhaps demand more from the allies? My first questions are therefore about the information position of the red card holder. The revealed documents from the U.S. Department of Defense show that the CIA has indeed warned in advance of civilian casualties. Apparently this warning was not shared with the Dutch red card holder. Does the Minister think that the red card holder should have known about this? If the Minister feels that everything has gone according to the rules, whatever the prosecution has said, why did it have to be decided after the bombing to adjust the coalition's targeting process? Can the Minister answer that? These questions have been put before. What kind of care or accuracy, as General Eichelsheim said yesterday, is it being followed exactly? Is there going to be more research on the possibility of secondary explosions before a decision is taken next time? Why couldn't the ministry get permission to share this with our parliament? It's not that special to share lessons that have been learned with Parliament, is it? Why could this information on the updating of procedures, or perhaps not even on the procedures, but at least on the possibility of obtaining information not be shared with Parliament? Did the Minister strike the table with the proverbial fist? Is the Minister going to argue that the secondary explosions should be included in the collateral damage estimation? I hope that I will receive clear information from the Minister on these questions. Then I come to the information provided by the Americans. The Americans soon knew that there were at least 70 civilian casualties. This figure turned out to be included in the statistics of the Americans themselves. How has the Minister urged the Americans to make this public to the Dutch Parliament? Why didn't that happen much later? Will the Minister make good agreements on what information we can and cannot now share, not only with the Ministry of Defence, but also with the Dutch Parliament, on the next mission? As a parliament, we must also be able to carry out our monitoring task. How far is the Minister now in showing greater transparency to Parliament about civilian casualties, as she has previously promised to Parliament? What are the new protocols going to be? The Minister has said a few things about this, but how far is it that we as a parliament should at least be informed confidentially? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have questions about compensation and the investigation of the victims. Where are the measures to compensate for this? And what about the investigation into the actual victims of Hawija? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Mr De Roon has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u117	Thank you, Madam President. The Netherlands conducted a successful air force campaign against Islamic State, but that sunny image is now overshadowed by dark clouds of errors and clumsyness of the cabinet. First there were the lies of Mrs Hennis, followed by the weak action of Minister Bijleveld in its aftermath. At that time, Prime Minister Rutte's unbelievable amnesia, who had been informed by Hennis about the Dutch air strike and the civilian casualties, had no memory of it anymore, as if he had been struck by lightning. And now there are the 70 suspected civilian deaths, which, according to the Cabinet, were initially not included in the American reports, but now suddenly they are. The Chamber has therefore been misinformed again by the Minister. This file is starting to look like a cluster bomb exploding in slow motion in the face of the cabinet. And that, when there was actually not so much going on, if there had been honest and professional communication on this issue from the very beginning, taking into account that war is not an exact science. Civilian deaths due to the Dutch F-16 deployment were to be expected from the very beginning, especially if you quite rightly bomb one of the largest bomb factories of the Islamic State in Iraq. If there are casualties, don't squeak, but communicate clearly and honestly about it once the mission is over. Don't go along with that left-wing wish that you can wipe Islamic State off the map without causing civilian casualties or that mathematical models allow you to calculate the exact number of civilian casualties in advance. Mr. Chairman. Let us be clear that the PVV has no problem with the targeting process, the Dutch deployment of F-16's and the bombing in Hawija itself. We had also given the green light for this in 2015. But a very serious problem is the way in which the Chamber has been systematically misinformed and incompletely informed about the air attack in Hawija, which has in fact resulted in a first-order communication drama. Unfortunately, this cabinet continues to stack error and even makes new mistakes in an attempt to move its own stunt into the background. Now the cabinet wants to make a peace offering to left-wing politicians and NGOs who cramp the idea that you can destroy a caliphate without causing civilian casualties. That peace offering means that the cabinet is now prepared to financially compensate the relatives of the Dutch air strikes in Iraq, while not the Netherlands but Iraq must do so. Then why is the Netherlands pulling the wallet? I would like to point out that the Netherlands went to war at the invitation of Iraq and that Iraq was even closely involved in the process of target development in Hawija. Iraq was also a red card holder, who could veto a planned attack. The Dutch attack on Hawija took place at the invitation of and with the agreement of Iraq. If damage is to be compensated, Iraq must do so, not the Netherlands. The fact that the Netherlands immediately indicates that it wants to draw the wallet is also remarkable because our country is not to blame for the air attack itself. It was carried out according to the rules. Nor is it certain how many people have actually been killed and who they were: IS fighters, collaborators or innocent civilians. Surely it would be indigestible for Dutch money to end up with IS fighters, collaborators or their next of kin? Does the Minister agree with me? One thing is certain: this cabinet has failed hopelessly and cannot rectify it by giving money to a number of Iraqis. This cabinet, with the Secretary of Defense first, must put its hands into its own bosom, frank, complete, full and without reservation. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Mr Van Otterloo has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed the tragedy of civilian casualties. That is a drama for which no soothing words are available. My generation is also familiar with Mr Van Helvert's speech there, too, about people who were victims of the so-called mistaken bombings in World War II. Today we commemorate the bombing of Rotterdam. But two other misbombings in the Second World War, in Nijmegen and in The Hague, killed more than 1,300 people. This means that, at least in my generation, there is sufficient sympathy for victims of this kind of misbombing. Yesterday, in the technical briefing, it appeared that no bombing would have taken place if the correct information had been known. The red card holder, who had to decide for the Netherlands, did so on the basis of incomplete information. Then we can fill a whole debate with the question of whether the procedures have been followed correctly, but the procedures are not good. This means that we must be generous in stating that the necessary changes are needed. It is not possible for a red card holder to draw the red card or not on the basis only of information resulting from three phases that have taken place before, when he does not know the content of that information. In short, too little critical capacity was included in the whole procedure. I hope that these are the changes that are now included in the procedures. Today, in this fourth debate, the main focus is on the way in which this cabinet provides information. I agree with all the critical questions that have been asked about the way in which the Chamber has been informed. The fact that the Minister is not on top of it and is not on top of it when it comes to getting that information on the table is a bad thing, but at the same time less surprising. As far as our group is concerned, there seems to be more of a character flaw in the cabinet. Article 68 of the Constitution must ensure that the Chambers are properly informed. The fact that things are not only going wrong here, but also in the case of finance, including the premium affair, on which we have had an extensive debate with the Minister of Finance, shows that this cabinet has a very scary view on the interpretation of Article 68. I use "frightened" because of the double meaning, otherwise I would only have spoken of "restrictive." It is about the essence of democracy. Journalists are more entitled to information under WOB law or the Freedom of Information Act than we are as Chambers. Surely it is not possible for documents to be made public which have been established that they are not shared between allies? That's way out of my league. Whatever hat that is, at least not the DOD's. In my view, however, this is insufferable. This attitude gnaws at the roots of parliamentary democracy. As I said, the attitude of the Minister of Defence is not surprising in that respect. If, as a cabinet, you don't think the information is so important, you don't go to the hole when you ask the Americans for information. It is precisely in this case that this should have been morally and formally the attitude of the cabinet: to have all the information available in order to inform the Chamber properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u120	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u121	Dutch F-16s attacked a building in Hawija in the night of 2 to 3 June 2015 where IS made so-called vehicle-borne Improvised Explosive Devices. This bomb factory was in an industrial area. After the attack, there were larger secondary explosions caused by the explosives stored inside that IED plant. As a result, there was a larger area of damage. This also destroyed a number of other buildings in the area. Our own damage report after the mission immediately showed that there was accidental collateral damage. This was also reported directly to the American headquarters CENTCOM. The Public Prosecutor's Office subsequently reviewed this mission, as with any deployment of the F-16, and did not see any need for further investigation. With the information now released by CENTCOM, the process of target designation and follow-up steps is even more insightful. The care is very high and all options are also weighed. In the middle of an area in the hands of the Islamic State, no one can count on you knowing exactly how much explosive is present in the factory. The considerations that have been made are all related to proportionality and military legitimacy. I refer once again to today's interview in the Volkskrant with brigade general, professor and military lawyer Ducheine, who explains once again how the military side of the targeting process and the legal aspects are combined.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u122	Mr Bosman just mentioned something important. It's also often reported by several people that the D.A. has decided not to do a follow-up investigation. Is Mr Bosman aware that the D.A. has not conducted an investigation.The Netherlands has quite strict criteria when something happens....................................................................................................................................................................................... Can Mr Bosman confirm that he agrees with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u123	Agreed. But we also need to realise that it's a war zone there. If the Public Prosecutor's Office conducts research in the Netherlands, this is not the case if it is possible to do research in Hawija. The possibilities for the Public Prosecutor's Office to conduct investigations are therefore logically limited. But I think Mrs Belhaj agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u124	That's not exactly what I meant, because of course it listens very closely. If it is stated in the Chamber that nothing illegal has happened, then that is a very important legal term, which you will only use when you have conducted a full criminal investigation into what has happened. The D.A. didn't do that. The State's Attorney's Office has indicated that they consider it likely that the procedure has been followed. That's a different term than "unrighteousness." It is also a bit different from saying that the whole process went well or you are aware of the fact that the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office can only investigate the last piece, as we heard in the technical briefing yesterday, namely what the red card holder does and what the kite does, and not what it did before. The Public Prosecutor has no access to the intelligence or preparation process of the Americans. Is Mr Bosman aware of this? If he wasn't, and he was now, how does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u125	That also makes sense, because a lot of information is just secret, classified. This limits the scope for research. That's true in a lot of cases. In this way we look at how the stakes have gone. That is being looked at with great care. I hear several people saying that the process has not gone through properly or that there have been other countries that have said no because of the risk of civilian deaths, but it gives the impression that the Dutch military are some sort of cowboys getting in where others don't go and swerving around with bombs. We have a very careful process. I am absolutely convinced of that. As General Eichelsheim said yesterday, that care is being tested. There's involvement. That information is available. The Dutch kites are serious about that. They don't just throw bombs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u126	One further question, however, because I know that Mr Bosman thinks it is important, and that is why I also mentioned it myself, that we all assume that we have the best soldiers with the best intentions to do their job well. That's what I'm assuming myself. But making statements and saying that nothing has gone wrong cannot be done if you know that we ourselves have not investigated the route that has taken place. You say in an easy way that it went carefully. The questions have therefore also been put to the Minister. But you have to be very accurate. If you know that no research has been carried out on the preliminary trajectory, then you can also not comment on whether the whole process has been conducted carefully. You can only say something about that last piece, that Dutch piece, in which the red card holder and the kite are involved. That is why I put this question so sharply to Mr Bosman, because it is important. I always get a little annoyed when someone says it was all legitimate, when I think we don't know that. Maybe it was legitimate, but we don't know, because that hasn't been investigated, and the D.A. can't investigate that either. And I think we should know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u127	Then I'll turn it around. Then any effort that does not lead to this discussion would appear to be legitimate because we do not ask the question and because the Public Prosecutor is not investigating. But if there is collateral damage that is greater than expected, then suddenly something arises in the legality of the stakes. Of course, that is not the case, because military efforts are always tested on the same lines. In fact, the collateral damage Estimate was definitely counted. That's what General Eichelsheim said yesterday. That wasn't done in America, it was done in Qatar. That was just taken away from there. That's what was being thought about. At the moment when the trial as we have followed many times before does not lead to discussion here in the Chamber or in the Public Prosecutor's Office, then I find it strange that if something goes wrong suddenly you have doubts about the process before and that we have always done so over the years. In principle, Mrs Belhaj says that with the outcome of this case in Hawija, all commitment to military purposes, wherever done, is a risk and should actually be investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office and fully investigated before you can give the qualification that it was legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u128	That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying that if you know that no criminal investigation has been carried out, you can't use the term "legally or not." That's one. And two is: in this case, we also know that there are highly likely to be other valuations and possibly errors in that preliminary journey, which is not with us. I don't know. But I do know that if you do everything right and throw a bomb, but there are so many civilian casualties, something must have gone wrong somewhere. So I'm fighting the certainty with which you say that. It's not like I think any bombing, if it's not stamped, is bad. No, because I said I'm going out on the good work the military are doing. I'm just trying to make it clear that you need to be careful with that now. Maybe in a year's time, it'll come out that it was completely different. And then you were completely convinced that it's okay. But you can only say that if you're sure that's been investigated and that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'm not making it up on the spot. I'd better get back to Brig-Gen Ducheine, professor, military attorney. He talks in the same way about the military side of the case, about the legality of the attack in that trial. In this way, the military side looks at the legality and the diligence of that process in the military process. If that process is the same every time, but there happens to be another outcome and you say that the process isn't right, you turn the world around. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u131	Then you have to be convinced that the process runs as it goes and that you sometimes have a different outcome, unexpectedly and unintentionally, but there is. We can all look for where the trial went wrong. Sometimes the process has gone well, but the outcome has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u132	The prosecution has ruled on the legality of the case. But it was also a matter of care. Mr Bosman has just said that it has gone according to the rules of due diligence and legality. But if it has all gone carefully, then of course the wretched question remains as to why we have now heard that the procedure has been adjusted. In other words, why do you still insist that it has gone carefully, when those conclusions are already outdated, because an evaluation has been carried out? I'm not talking about looking back with the knowledge from now to then. I'm talking about now and your statements now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u133	Because I still insist that the procedure has been followed correctly and with all due care. The same procedure was followed thirteen times before and then it was successful. So you cannot say that the procedure is suddenly wrong. For are we saying that the procedure was incorrect on the 13 times before? No, we're not saying that. At some points in the uncertainty of war, we seem to be dealing with things that you have to say afterwards: perhaps we need to think about again or perhaps we need to take a wider margin. It's possible. You can always do that. Carefulness in this respect is certainly appropriate. It's also being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u134	My question was about Mr Bosman's conclusion. He says that the procedure has been lawful and careful. But we know more now. We know that it did not go very carefully, otherwise we would not have had the 70 or more victims. My question to Mr Bosman is therefore why he insists that it has been done carefully. Rightfully, he could have a point. But careful? Isn't that why we're adjusting the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u135	No, what Mr Voordewind is saying is wrong. Because it is not so much that the procedure has been adapted. But if you're going to attack a bomb factory, you have to think carefully about the risks you're going to have. So the process is still the same. It's just about the risk margin people take. They say, "Wait a minute, that risk is so great, I'm going to think about it again." The procedure remains the same. It's about whether we have enough information to make sure that what's in that factory is actually what we expect from it. In a war zone, that's almost impossible, unless you've got people knocking at the front door with the question: can I take a look? And that doesn't happen in ISIS territory. That always makes it an assumption and the best fucking guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u136	Then let me not talk about the procedure. There will be an adjustment of care to prevent it from happening again. We got that. The conclusion was that due care was not sufficiently careful in this case. Does Mr Bosman maintain that due care has been taken if we now conclude that in this case, perhaps in the other 13 cases this was not the case? Does he perhaps disagree that it is being adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u137	This listens closely, because at the time we say this, we say to that kite and all those soldiers in the same line: you have acted carelessly. And I hope Mr Voordewind doesn't say that, because that care is just there. If we look back now whether or not it has been careful.... afterwards you look a cow in the ass... then the essence is that the procedure has been carefully followed. I'm gonna keep doing that, and I'm gonna stand for it. The fact that it is being adjusted because you have to think about the risk margins is important, and it is happening. It is about the risk margins and not about the care, because that care is identical but you do think about the risk margins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u138	Finally, Mr President, we must not enter into a semantic discussion. I don't blame any pilot for being careless. They acted on the information they were given, but we must all note that the whole process has been careless. That was also my wretched feeling yesterday at the technical briefing. Of course, the general and the colonel said that something terrible happened and then we were explained the procedure, which, of course, they are for. Only, if you get that procedure explained so cleanly, you get the feeling that nothing has gone wrong, and we have to conclude that something has gone terribly wrong. So I would advise you to include the term "carefulness" not only in the procedure but also in the 70 victims we are facing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u139	Mr Voordewind talks about care as if there had not been, the careless procedure. I'm gonna fight that, and I'm gonna keep fighting that, because it's not true. Rewriting history in hindsight is handsome, but I'm not gonna do it. I'm gonna stand for the trial that's been going on there. In fact, it is described each time in all processes that go through the targeting. That you learn from that is logical, but it happens on a lot of levels; at a lot of times it is learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u140	I also have a number of questions about this care. During the technical briefing yesterday, we understood that the point of secondary explosions is not initially in the process but that we are looking at previous experiences of attacks on weapons factories. As you rightly pointed out, there have been 13 previous attacks. I also asked yesterday during the technical briefing whether there was a situation in which the previous 13 attacks involved a nearby residential area. The people who took care of the technical briefing indicated that they couldn't make a statement about it. Can you do that, Mr. Bosman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u141	No, but the relevance isn't there either. What matters is whether you can see what the last thirteen times bomb blast has been and what the radius has been of the effectiveness of the bomb itself. You don't have to make it a direct equal situation to see what the effects are. The moment you know how far the effective shock wave blows out, you can make a prognosis and transfer it to other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u142	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u143	Of course, every situation is different. In this sense, all fourteen situations cannot be compared. I agree with Mr Bosman once again, but what I find difficult to agree with him is that you have such an attack on a shed that you know is explosive and you then find people living 150 metres away. Even if the attack is carried out in the night with smaller ammunition, there should be a light on: wait a minute, this is not wise, let's go pull that red card. Does Mr Bosman agree with me that if there is a residential area at only 150 metres, which is not comparable to the previous 13 cases to which he refers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u144	Yes, but that would mean that the people who are in that definitely clean from the Netherlands wouldn't think about it, that they would be a bit dumb people who wouldn't light a light on them. They also see the photos and they also get a look at what's in the area. Of course there are all kinds of lights on, especially in Dutch military because they absolutely do not need to throw a bomb anywhere. It is looked at very carefully and what has happened the last 13 times is taken into account. Of course it will be taken into account. That's why it's done in the night. That's why it's done with bomb material as it's possible. This is how it is thought: what kind of fuse setting goes on, which direction do I come to attack? All that kind of stuff is taken into account to mitigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u145	You're through, Mr. Kuzu. Proceed, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr. Chairman. It is a pity, however, that it took so long for this information, which was available in the Ministry of Defence, to come to the Chamber. The Chamber has asked for this time and again. It is therefore unsatisfactory to me that a journalist and a lawyer should be given the information through the Freedom of Information Act in the United States and not the Chamber. Can the Minister explain why she didn't get the information this journalist did? How did she explain to her American counterpart how serious the Chamber's request was? What steps has this Minister taken, or has it taken, to make the question of the Chamber clear to the US Government and the Pentagon? Has the Minister asked whether it was possible to make a sanized version available to the Chamber, or just for the report? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr Van Ojik has a question. Why don't I just suspend for a little while? Then I'll suspend for a moment and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u148	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u149	Completely relaxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u150	I think Mr. Van Ojik wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u151	I would almost say: I had to think for a moment why I was standing here again. It's been so long since I've walked here. I let Mr Bosman speak on purpose because I am actually curious about what lessons he, or the VVD Group, has actually learned, except in the field of information. I've already heard him ask some critical questions about that. If you look at the position of the red card holder, if you look at the way in which the risk of secondary explosions is dealt with, if you look at how information that came from the CIA seems to have been handled, then it is almost impossible to say otherwise, or you say: I have received a strong warning here that a number of things have to be changed? I didn't actually hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u152	No, because I see it differently. Because I see that the processes are going through as they are and the people who are present, who are available and who are in that process, are in the right places, and have all the moments to pull the red card where necessary. That doesn't mean that the commitment you make can sometimes lead to an outcome you don't expect. Then we can still have the discussion: I want to avoid all the risks of something like this ever happening again. Then I'm just gonna say here: I'm not gonna promise that. I'm not gonna guarantee it either. I can't guarantee that either. During wartime we will often encounter things that we say afterwards: the intention was different, the outcome is very different. Then we can watch every time and say: yes, but then we have to change the process. Sometimes we will also have to accept in wartime that what has been done with intent, the outcome is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u153	This answer disappoints me. Of course we all know that if we say yes to such a mission and send people there, the risk will never be zero, ever. But at the same time, we all want to keep the risk as low as possible. Now, after a very long time, after a lot of fives and sixes, we have gained an insight into the process, in this particular case of Hawija, where something has gone terribly wrong, and we see that in that process, which may have gone through very neatly according to the rules, I do not dispute at all that there are some inherent weaknesses which may have misjudged the risks. Then you must say, as a group of the VVD and also as a spokesperson, that there might have to be a number of things different; perhaps the Minister should have put some things into effect in order to change the procedures in future, in order to strengthen the position of that red card holder? To weigh information better, to look more closely at those secondary explosions and the risk of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u154	The special thing is that that process has been adapted. As a result of Hawija, the secondary explosions are looked at differently. So the last thirteen attacks are no longer considered, where the expectation is that, as a common denominator of what happens when you attack a bomb factory, the same goes for number fourteen. So they're not gonna do that anymore. The whole procedure has been further adapted to that. That doesn't mean that you would have to change all the other things in there, such as the information position, because that would mean that I'll come back to the story anyway, that with every other effort we've made, we'll obviously have to conclude that people had too little information or were not able to come to a good judgment. That's not true. I'm really convinced of that; it really isn't. Only the fact that the outcome is different now has taught us to take a closer look at the process. It has come to the conclusion that the outcome of an attack on a bomb factory is not always consistent with the attacks on 13 other factories. So that's what we need to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u155	Mr Bosman spoke a long time about the targeting process, and he also got a lot of questions about it, and he briefly said something about the provision of information from the cabinet to the House of Representatives. He said it was a pity we had to wait a long time for information. How does he assess the fact that sometimes we have also received information that was not complete or incorrect? Does he think that's too bad, or does he think that's a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u156	The problem with that is that sometimes you depend on third parties. As long as you depend on third parties, that makes the process very difficult. But I've been pretty critical. My question is: how do you ensure that from your role, from your position as minister, you are still able to get that information? What way did this minister use to make it clear that that information really had to go to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u157	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u158	No, Mr. Christmas. I'm well supported, and I hear you've asked six questions. Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr President, thank you. This is yet another debate about the lying and twisting about the civilian deaths in Hawija. The previous debates focused on the active or non-active memory of Prime Minister Rutte whether or not the Minister of Defense was merely informed about civilian deaths and when exactly, the secrecy about what she knew, supposedly in the interests of national and operational security, and CENTCOM, that the 70 civilian casualties would not have been included in the official number of deaths. That number would be a rumor and irrelevant. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the American research report has become partly public, thanks to the NOS and the NRC. Turns out what? CENTCOM has counted the civilian deaths for a long time. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence lied to the Chamber about this. Is this totally out of control lie a Defence strategy to avoid parliamentary control through smokescreens? Is creating confusion a way for this minister to avoid her political responsibility? Is secrecy her last trump card now? My question to the Minister is: how is it possible that the press can systematically inform the Chamber better than the minister himself? Journalists still dig, for example the After Action Report, with the bomb log attached to it. Will the Minister share this? Mr. Chairman. Does the House of Commons take its controlling task seriously if it lets itself be dragged over again in this umpteenth Hawija-deaf-pot debate? The question that needs to be asked today is: why does our Ministry of Defence stop transparent reporting and investigation? Why are ministerial information obligations systematically violated? What are the consequences of this political mortal sin? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u160	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u161	Mr. Chairman. Where there's a fight, victims fall. In a war, we try to avoid collateral damage as much as possible, but unfortunately, it is not always possible to avoid civilian deaths. The fact that five years ago the bombing of Hawija killed civilians is not what we are talking about today. The military involved acted in good conscience and followed all the rules in force. They are not blamed for this. What we are talking about today is the political resolution of this situation. For five years now the House of Representatives has been fooled, lied to, deceived, disinformed, not taken seriously, provoked, first by the then Minister Hennis, now by her successor, Minister Bijleveld. Even Prime Minister Rutte is doing temporary amnesia. At first, it was repeatedly denied that civilian casualties had occurred at all. When the first messages appeared, which showed that this was probably incorrect, those messages were dismissed as rumors. The information we had to get through the media was played down by the cabinet. It was only at the moment when it became clear that inaccuracies had been provided that it was admitted reluctantly. The pattern is known. This cabinet simply does not seem to want to comply with the constitutional obligation to inform the Chamber properly, but above all to be concerned with the question: how can we deceive Parliament; how can we get away with it? In recent weeks, a new low has been reached on this subject. While the whole country was raging over the coronavirus, the minister sent a letter to the Chamber on 24 March. As if the deception were not enough, the Minister reluctantly stated in that letter that the Chamber was also misinformed when it became known that civilian deaths had occurred. To the extent of disaster, it was also announced on 21 April that the Americans had already warned about the risks a week before the attack. That was information that the Minister said could not be shared with Parliament, but could apparently be provided by the Americans to NOS and NRC. It's a transparent attempt to make shocking reports snow under the news about corona. Never washed a good crisis, they must have thought. But the attempt failed. Today we're standing here. And since the corona crisis, this is the first plenary debate we have had, precisely because the Chamber rightly considers this to be such an important point. For how can we, as parliamentarians, do our job well if we cannot trust that we are properly informed? How can we control if the government is using its power to make our work impossible? We demand firm commitments that this will really change in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-4.u162	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
