ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Green Deal. I propose that four questions be put to each other in the first period. I give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66 as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are already seeing the violent consequences of climate change. In Siberia they don't know what they're going through: above 40°C it's there this week. Houses are sinking into the mud because the permafrost melts. This makes it clear once again that time is running out. We are the last generation that can do something about dangerous climate change, but also the first generation that has no time to lose. Fortunately, time and technology are there and also the will to do something about it. In the Netherlands we already have a Climate Agreement. Now we can also do business in Europe for the climate, with the Green Deal. Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with the targets first. Europe wants to be the first climate-neutral continent in the world by 2050. Well, then we'll have to get to work now. That is why D66 also wants to see strong targets for 2030 and 2040. Is the Minister making a big deal of effort in Europe? The Netherlands argues for 55% in Europe, which D66 thinks is very good, but what is the Netherlands actually doing to go that way? Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve the common goals, it is first and foremost very important that pollution simply gets a good price. That is the basis for a green choice that pays off. The ETS system therefore needs to be strengthened quickly. With the Green Deal, we have a great opportunity to tighten the ETS towards the 55% reduction target. Can the Minister and his European colleagues arrange for us to deal quickly with the excess of ETS rights? In this context, I would also like to say that it is often difficult for countries, for example, to conduct local climate policies and close their coal plants, to put all these emission allowances on the market. Countries should be allowed to withdraw those allowances. Can the Minister ask about that, too? Speaking of which, aviation and shipping too would have been greatly helped to change their business if they were also covered by a more ambitious ETS climate regime. How does the Minister commit himself to doing this and is he also directly committed to making sure that the track really works as an alternative? Does the Minister share D66's view that the proposed CO border levy is an important price for achieving the CO targets while at the same time banning dirty products from China? Mr. Chairman. Besides pricing, D66 also wants people and companies to be able to opt for clean techniques easily and cheaply. With standards and scale, the Green Deal offers this opportunity. Does the cabinet also see a huge doubler when we combine the EU's Renovation Wave with our own smart housing subsidies? How is the cabinet going to make this seamlessly connected? As far as D66 is concerned, those renovated houses preferably do not turn on heat grids fired with woody biomass. In the previous debate, the Minister acknowledged the need for a phasing-out path for the subsidy on the burning of woody biomass. We have held our motion on this subject, but we are very curious to see how the Minister sees such a phasing-out path. When can we expect that? When can we expect a clear signal to be sent to the regions when it comes to burning woody biomass for heat and how they can take this into account in their plans? Mr. Chairman. The transition will only succeed eventually if we also have the professionals to do the much work needed for this. The role of MBOs is crucial. It's not gonna happen without professionals. Does the Minister intend to involve the MBOs in Europe in the Green Deal? And does the Minister also want to work to ensure that new innovative companies, such as Lightyear or BAM, the builder of sun panels, can maintain jobs here and that these thriving industries are flourishing? Mr President, I shall conclude. Siberia is far away, but it brings the climate crisis close. Because CO doesn't have a passport. And the consequences will be felt by all of us. As the Netherlands, we also have a huge opportunity to lead the world's first climate-neutral continent. We have everything we need to make that happen. Cabinet, take that chance!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. Mr Van Raan has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	Beautiful words from D66, again: first steps, well on the way. The Green Deal is a package of measures stemming from the European climate law. Young people across Europe already speak of betrayal to future generations. Is D66 prepared to take the lead in the Netherlands and embrace the motions on increasing the target of 55%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	Frankly, I do not know exactly which motions Mr Van Raan is referring to. For that 55% we have a very clear coalition agreement. The coalition agreement says that we are committed internationally to a 55% target and to a 49% target nationwide. I agree with Mr Van Raan that we must keep up the momentum. If there can be a shovel on top, it can, but I am also honest: we have that coalition agreement. I ask the Minister what he is already doing to see whether, for example, he is already seeing opportunities for speeding up this 55% about the green recovery, which is now to take place in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Van Raan, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	I conclude that D66 is not doing anything to make this possible already, by supporting the motions in which it is said to go to 55%. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is high time for a climate policy to ensure that the climate targets are met while at the same time ensuring that households improve. This can be done by isolating and improving houses free of charge or affordable. This can be achieved by rolling out high-speed trains and improving public transport in and between countries. This can be done by collectively generating renewable energy and extracting CO from the air by massive planting of trees and other greens. The good thing is that all these measures will lead to more jobs. It was announced with a lot of bombs: the European climate policy, the Green Deal. There was even talk of "the European variant of the moon landing." Well, well, well, But when the dust is down again, what exactly is left? We really do see that the proposals in the Green Deal do not seem to be sufficient to achieve the climate targets. They build on an old economy, strengthen the position of the polluting business and attract even more power to Europe. It seems mostly a party for multinationals and europhiles. Let us begin with the issue of democracy. We see that the European Commission is going to draw even more power towards it. But we also know that climate policy cannot rely on support for this and on which people have no control, and it only leads to resistance. So I ask what the cabinet thinks about the European Commission taking even more power here, which may even have disastrous consequences for climate policy. And then there was not only the bombing of Von der Leyen, but also of course Timmermans himself, who talked about thousands of billions. I mean, the sums were all over you, but where did that money end up anyway? Because what we see is that there is a lot of money going to businesses and that the risks lie with households, those households that need good and just climate policy. Economics professor Daniela Gabor said: that European Green Deal will bypass the poor and go straight to the rich. I ask for a response from the cabinet on this point. Mr. Chairman. Not only does climate money go mainly to companies, we also maintain all kinds of power from fossil companies. That's no way to do anything about the Energy Charter Treaty. I would also like a reaction from the cabinet, because it is these fossil companies that are now making sure that a lot of climate measures cannot be taken or become very expensive, because there are countless endless court cases to be dealt with. Mr. Chairman. It's really time for a Green New Deal. Instead of strengthening Europe's power and the big companies, we are putting the people at the centre. Together we make Europe greener, cleaner and more sustainable. What is so striking in these Green Deal plans is that it's a lot about companies, but not about households. For example, there is a lack of a plan for the international train. It is about freight transport, but there is hardly any plan for European rail transport. That is precisely something that can help households move forward and contribute to achieving climate goals. Mr President, I have to finish. Europe has no interest in a moon landing. It is high time that we landed in a popular area, and that we came up with climate justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. We have a climate law and we have a climate agreement. But if you think you've had everything with this Green Left climate minister for a Green Left climate cabinet, you're wrong, because we still have the unelected Brussels bureaucrats. Disappointed if he was not allowed to be President of the Commission, Commissioner Timmermans came up with his monstrous European Green Deal. You're gonna have to do something to make yourself weighty. A bizarre, comprehensive, far-reaching plan to make the whole EU climate neutral. We need to fly less, we need to drive electric, and we need to eat less meat. Coal-fired power stations have to give way to more so-called green energy, read: windmills, while coal-fired power stations are shooting out like mushrooms in countries like China and India. Three billion trees need to be planted, while complete forests are now being cut down to burn in biomass plants. It all depends on hypocrisy and contradictions, with the label on climate policy. Mr. Chairman. What's this horrible Green Deal gonna cost anyway? As many as 1,000 billion, at least until 2030. But, said climate pope Timmermans, the cost of doing nothing about climate change is many times higher. But if the PVV in a video conversation with Mr Timmermans himself specifically asks "how much higher are the costs of doing nothing?', Then the answer is "uh, I don't know, I don't know." And that's what you have to do with it. It is far-reaching, priceless climate madness of the most amateurish kind. Mr. Chairman. We all know that the scaremongering and predictions of recent decades about climate change and the enormous rise in sea levels have not come true. Then why continue with this climate hysteria? I have a very significant quote from the United Nations Foundation. I quote: even if the theory of global warming is wrong, yes, we are doing the right thing in terms of economic policy. Look, here comes the climate monkey from the sleeve. It is therefore primarily about economic policy, according to the UN, which is responsible for all these terrible international climate conventions. Fully in that line, climate pope Timmermans now wants to create a so-called "transitional fund." It contains as much as EUR 100 billion to finance other EU countries that are lagging behind in their climate policy. In other words, while the Netherlands, as the goodest climate boy in the EU class, is throwing billions over the bar to meet all kinds of climate requirements, we can eventually also compete with other countries' climate policies. It is not for nothing that it is said in the corridors of the Brussels offices: if this Green Deal succeeds, it will be greater than the introduction of the euro. Let us get this right: the Green Deal is going to be bigger than the euro. See the billions transfers from north to south under the guise of solidarity. That's what's going to happen with this Green Deal, but under the guise of climate. The Green Deal as some kind of redistribution mechanism. This is yet another means of achieving an EU superstate. Mr. Chairman. At his presentation of the Green Deal, when all the substantive arguments were really gone, Mr Timmermans dared to say with dry eyes: Mother Nature has had enough. Mother Nature has had enough! No, Mr. Timmermans, we've had enough of those unelected Brussels climate hysterical bureaucrats who want to prescribe the law for us. That is why only one conclusion is possible: The Netherlands should never agree to the whole Green Deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Kops. At least, Mr Sienot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u15	The PVV and D66 will never agree on climate policy, but I would like to ask Mr Kops about nuclear energy. The PVV has a great heart for nuclear energy. If you need Europe for something, it's nuclear power, otherwise it's not gonna happen. Do I understand from this that the PVV sees opportunities in itself to regulate the energy transition in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u16	We are certainly very much in favour of nuclear energy, but we are certainly opposed to this EU. Mr Sienot, we would prefer to leave the EU. We are going to regulate climate and energy policy in our own country. In the Netherlands, we must opt for nuclear energy ourselves. We certainly do not need the EU to do that. We see the path the EU has taken with this terrible EU-Green Deal: windmills, solar panels, I don't know. You read that it is full of biodiversity, sustainability and other vagueness. That is not exactly what we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u17	I note that the PVV has no plan for a reliable energy system, now and in the future. That's too bad, because that's what the PVV does to many people. The PVV's plan is apparently: in the Netherlands, all coals burn until they are up and Amersfoort is by the sea. Or can I expect another plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u18	We currently have five coal plants, or four, in the Netherlands. And what does a party like D66 do? D66 breaks down this reliable energy infrastructure. Thousands of people get there by standing on the street. That's the choice of D66. We are simply saying: keep those coal power stations open; they simply function. Then Mr Sienot says something about "Amersfoort aan zee." Then perhaps he should pay more attention, because the sea level worldwide rose by 17 to 21 centimeters between 1901 and 2010. Will you listen to our own delta commissioner, who has clearly said: "Does sea level accelerate? No." See Mr. Sienot laughing now! Maybe the direction can zoom in on his face, on how sneaky he's smiling there. This is just what our own delta commissioner says. Should we be worried? No. Are we safe? Yes. And that for a budget of 1.25 billion from the Delta Fund. Of course, that's a lot of money, but compared to the 1,000 billion of this EU-Green Deal, that's a bargain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u19	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I note that there is selective shopping. Not so long ago on television I heard a delta commissioner at the dikes say that depending on the scenario it can also go quite differently with the dikes. For the time being, let's not talk each other out of fear, but let's work on a working, affordable and reliable energy system. That is what Europe needs to do. The PVV has no plan and makes other choices. It's possible. We choose Europe and a sustainable energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u20	We know about D66. Indeed, it does not choose Europe but the EU. Mr Sienot is indeed opting for the transfer of power to Brussels. He was just talking about scare-making. I think it is precisely the EU that is doing scare-making, and the UN with all these horrible international climate agreements. It has already been said in the 1980s that if we do not do something about climate change before 2000, entire countries will be flooded. That's what was said at the time. None of that has come true; fortunately but of course. But if anyone has to stop this scaremongering, then it is the EU, the UN and Mr Sienot's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is it Green Deal or greenwash? Of course, we look forward to the outcome with interest, but it actually went wrong with the announcement. This Green Deal was explicitly presented as a growth strategy. That was probably to stop lobbyists against their chests as little as possible, as if no one had to change anything. Mr. Chairman. One still dares not recognise that infinite growth on a planet with a finite amount of raw material does not exist. The foundations of the Green Deal are already at odds with what is needed to tackle the climate crisis and the nature crisis. What's the vision of less, and thinking about what we really need? We need the economy to be effectively exchanged for doping for an economy within the capacity of the earth. We do not yet see any evidence of this in the European plans. On the contrary, we see evidence that the European Union wants to increase world trade even further. Does the Minister recognise that as long as the EU continues to pursue reckless trade deals, the EU is mainly responsible for the damage to nature and the environment? The good news, of course, is that more and more people are seeing that. For example, under the leadership of Esther Ouwehand, the Mercosur deal was wiped off the table here in the Second Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of evidence, what possibilities does the Minister see to test the Green Deal annually with the Monitor Brede Prosperity? How does the Minister now look at the motion to bring forward green investments, as proof that it can be done? Can the Minister give the latest state of play on the CO-frontier tax? Potentially, that is a positive proof of a just approach. The Minister himself can also contribute to a proof, for example by no longer believing in the sustainable European storybook on biomass. Mr. Chairman. Agriculture. In the Farm to Fork strategy, the European Commission finally recognises the harmful effects of meat and dairy on climate, nature and health. However, there are no concrete measures that are really going to be implemented here. Precisely those subsidies that directly contribute to economies of scale, climate and environmental pollution are excluded. Does the Minister recognise that direct income support gives farmers an incentive for further intensification and that this is contrary to the sustainability objectives of the Farm to Fork strategy? I trust he will be able to answer these questions and not pass them on to his colleague from Agriculture. Mr. Chairman. As long as the common agricultural policy is not completely revised, the Farm to Fork strategy remains a shambles. This is also true of the biodiversity strategy, where there are no fields or roads to check out goals or obligations. The decline of climate and nature is not stopped in this way. The same applies to the European climate law. Like the emptyed Dutch Climate Act, this does not mean much for the time being. Both Europe and the Netherlands keep it far away in their climate laws, in 2050. International climate strikers equate this with betrayal and surrender. I'd like a response. I will send you the article in which this is quoted. I saw the Minister looking at me in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u23	Don't let that bother you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u24	Well, then, you're making the Minister very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u25	Please continue. Don't be distracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In his conversation with this Chamber, Timmermans came no further than attacking these people, who are genuinely concerned about the climate. He says they're the problem. That is quite a bold attitude for someone who was in the cabinet of VVD and PvdA himself, who after the first ruling in the Urgenda case did not take any action, and even preferred to appeal rather than take her duty of care seriously. In its Green Deal, the EU actually does the same as the Dutch cabinet: many fine words, but few deeds; the picture is more beautiful than it is. You could call it greenwashing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Mrs Agnes Mulder has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr President, thank you. Von der Leyen, together with Timmermans, has set out an ambitious package for the greening of Europe. The CDA supports this direction. An all entrance to the Netherlands to meet the goals of Paris is not working, so is our conviction. Especially because of the corona crisis, we now need each other more than ever in Europe. A sensible investment agenda helps our global competitiveness. The CDA wants to focus on our manufacturing industry. We focus on reshoring and investing in homes and the climate. This can only be done if the deal is feasible and affordable and can count on the support of our citizens. The SP also advocated for those residents. We do have questions about the delegated acts. How far does that go? Mrs Beckerman also mentioned this. At least that's a thorn in our eye. In previous debates, the CDA has advocated SMEA's of the proposals from Europe. We then had a positive response from the Minister. How does the Minister intend to hold this line? Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like to know from the Minister how he views the integration of aviation and shipping into the ETS. During a technical briefing in this Chamber, the CDA asked Commissioner Timmermans to reflect on shipping and just-in-time sailing. By applying this, we understand that a CO reduction of more than 20% is possible in shipping. The digging of European ports can also help enormously, provided there is a fair playing field. At our request, Timmermans made it clear that he had an eye for a European port strategy. As far as the CDA is concerned, this can only be done if there is a level playing field at European level. Does the Minister share our plea for a European port strategy, in which improvement in the logistics planning of sea-going vessels, just-in-time sailing, is given a place? Does he want to work for this in Europe? And how is the Minister going to draw attention to traces in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u29	I would like to have a more detailed explanation of the position taken by the CDA. The speech opens with the sentence: there is an ambitious package and the CDA supports it. But if you look closely at the package, you can see that it has attracted a lot of responsibilities that have so far been with the Member States to, as it were, being sucked into, European institutions, institutions of the EU. How does the CDA assess this whole package from the point of view of subsidiarity? That is a very big, important point at the CDA. Some prefer to talk about sovereignty in their own circle, but that is the Protestant variant. How's the CDA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u30	I am a Protestant, but that subsidiarity is also so embedded in my DNA that it belongs to me. That is why, of course, I asked about those delegated acts. We have a great deal of difficulty with this. But that does not say anything about the direction you want to take with the greening of Europe and the fact that you see it as an economic opportunity for our continent. We can take these steps together, but we must not put our own businesses at a disadvantage. It is precisely when we do this on a European scale that we will achieve it and it will really benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u31	But in order to protect that business, I am only going to name it with a single word, an important aspect of the sovereignty of your own country handed over by the CDA to Brussels, because 'that's so good'. It is not about the objectives, but it is about how it is achieved. Is that through the principle of subsidiarity or not? On that point, I would really like a deeper, substantive response from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u32	I didn't ask the Minister how he looked at those delegated acts for nothing. I told you, that's a real thorn in my eye. Mr Bishop asks me: how are you going to achieve these goals? I am not in favour of handing everything over to Brussels. But I do think that we should make good agreements with each other, because we all benefit from that. We keep subsidiarity at the level where it is possible and where it is smart, convenient and sensible, including for our country. But I do think we should meet the targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u33	I, too, wanted to ask you about this point. I myself mentioned in my contribution that it is again more power to the European Commission. I was glad to hear that the CDA is also bringing this up. Even the lawyers of the European Parliament reject the power that Timmermans draws towards him. The CDA in the European Parliament, Esther de Lange, spoke of "a hold of power." I'd like to hear from the CDA here if it's behind those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u34	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But I would also like to hear that from the Minister here today. We have debates more often. This point has already been discussed in a note-taking meeting. Then I thought: I'm saving it here, because I think it's such a big point that I want it to come back in this debate. That's why I asked questions about it. I think I'm very clear about it. Of course, I fully support those words from my colleague Esther de Lange in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u35	I'm very happy to hear that. That is, I think, also sharper than previously expressed. I think it's hopeful, too. I know this also from the CDA, because we are also working together on the Climate Agreement, where there is also too little control for the inhabitants. I hope that, after the Minister's reply, we can work together on this. I think this is an important signal that we can deliver as a Chamber, not only in word but perhaps in action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u38	Well, the second term's already been, I guess!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. An important part of the Green Deal is the Just Transition Fund. This fund can provide an important solution to specific challenges for regions that need to get rid of fossil resources. We have such a region, of course, in the north of our country. Stopping the extraction of natural gas in Groningen results in a loss of up to 20,000 jobs in the North of the Netherlands. At the same time, there are great opportunities for hydrogen in this region and Groningen is seen by the European Commission as an important target area for the Just Transition Fund in the Netherlands. The CDA would therefore like the cabinet to consult with the region concerned to make a northern bid for the JTF plan, with a specific commitment on the further development of hydrogen. But we are talking about large sums of money, so we can imagine that in other places in the Netherlands these resources should also be used, including for hydrogen. I would therefore like these other regions to be included, but the bulk is allowed to go to the north of the Netherlands as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, it is important that the agricultural and fisheries sectors remain open. The goal for organic farmers from the van-boer-to-bordstrategy does not sound realistic in the Dutch context. The same applies to the objective of making 30% of the total area of the EU protected nature reserve. By the way, we are in favour of strengthening nature. I would like to make that very explicit here. Can the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy indicate how these objectives will be translated into national policies, and how they will also remain a perspective for our agriculture and fisheries sectors? Finally, Mr President. We want a fair playing field for our industry in Europe. The climate agreement, in the cabinet's letter, said: climate change does not respect national borders. Climate policy is therefore an area of excellence for a European approach. The ETS, source policy and European standards on mobility are examples of areas where European agreements are crucial. These are preferred by the cabinet. How's the Minister going with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u40	First Mr Moorlag, then Mr Tom van der Lee and then Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u41	I would like to come back to the issue of hydrogen, because Mrs Mulder's words have taken me from the heart. I think Northern Netherlands indeed has a lot of potential. But let us look at Dutch hydrogen policy and also at what is happening in neighbouring countries. Germany has presented a new hydrogen strategy. EUR 9 billion is earmarked for this purpose. The 35 million in the Netherlands is a bit in stark contrast with that. If you also look at the ambitions of the Green Deal, does Mrs Mulder think that the Netherlands should take another critical look at its own national hydrogen strategy, if you turn that against the developments in Germany and Europe? Does Mrs Mulder think that the Minister should put that in the right perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u42	We're both incredibly prohydrogen. We both come from Northern Netherlands and see huge opportunities, also because things went terribly wrong there, also with our beautiful Groningen, in the field of natural gas extraction. If you can make that transition, then here is a huge opportunity. We just want that opportunity to be grasped. Of course, I have also seen huge steps being taken in Germany. Frankly, I am pleased that the Germans are doing so, because we have to do this with each other in Europe. Imagine that we in the Netherlands were the only ones who saw how important hydrogen can be. Then we won't get much further. Then, of course, we will never get these economies of scale, which we need very much, because those prices have to go down. That such a large neighbour is such a huge commitment to hydrogen is certainly to be commended. We need to take advantage of that. We need to see how we can do that together. I have already argued for this in many debates, as Mr Moorlag knows. We would like to be the port of Europe in the field of hydrogen. We have tabled motions on this subject, including with the support of Mr Moorlag. If we can get there and the Minister sees opportunities, even with everything that Europe offers us with money, we often look at what we bring money to, but we also have to look at how we get money back and can invest it again, then Mr Moorlag of the PvdA and I can find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u43	I have a question for Mrs Mulder. The deal stands or falls with the debate on delegated acts, but above all with funding. Is Mrs Mulder, like me, interested in this? Perhaps we can call on the Minister and the planning agencies to make it clear what the contribution of an ambitious Green Deal can be to CO reduction, but also to the cost-effectiveness of our climate policy in the Netherlands, so that we can see what we get back for our contribution? This may also lead to a further discussion on the financing of the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u44	I'm sure I'm open to that. In the first paragraph of my speech to the Minister, I said that we have already argued in favour of SMEs in the past, and I asked how we can make it clear what this is all about, including in the case of CO reduction. You can spend a lot of money, but if that doesn't get you anywhere, you still have a problem. So I think it is important for the Minister to take that up. The suggestion that Mr Van der Lee then makes, I do not think it is wrong. It's all our money, and we have to be careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr Van Raan and then Mr Kops, but not after the microphones have been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u46	Yes, everything has to be coronaproof, colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u47	That's right. First, Mr Van Raan and then Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u48	We just heard D66 speak fine words about the urgency and the haste: 55% raised, but they are not prepared to give real hands and feet to that in the Netherlands by doing so in the Netherlands as a precursor and perhaps by breaking the coalition agreement, because that is necessary. Is the CDA perhaps prepared to do so, or is the CDA also stuck in fine words about haste in Europe while in the Netherlands it is target?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u49	I think you are giving a very free translation of Mr Sienot's words. I do not believe that he recognizes himself in this, but together with Mr Sienot, I have made myself strong in Europe to raise the objective. So I think this is a bit of a weird presentation of things and weird business. On the contrary, I am in favour of going to the 55% European level. I also just finished with the passage from the cabinet's letter on the Climate Agreement by saying: go deal with it at European level. Now there will be a proposal in September and I hope that we will sit on that 55%. If the Minister now wants to push, drag and pull to achieve that in Europe, I call on him to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u50	Last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u51	I think you recognize, like the viewers, that no answer is given, Mr President. It is clear that D66 and CDA are encouraging to do it in Europe while we have the chance to say as the Netherlands: we are going to go for 55%, 60% or perhaps 70%. I repeat my question, so that is not a new question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u52	Okay, but it just counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u53	Is the CDA prepared to break the coalition agreement by saying: in the Netherlands we are already doing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u54	But the effect is much greater when you pick up that European thing with each other and don't put your own industry on the throat? How are we doing here? Now let's get it settled in Europe. In two months, that strategy will be there. I believe that it was promised to us at the beginning of September, including by the European Commission. Well, bring it up with that strategy and let's get it done in Europe!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u55	We know Mrs Mulder as a great supporter of hydrogen. We hear her about that a lot. She was just talking about the port of Europe that should be the Netherlands. All of us do not have to, but well, Mrs Mulder says so. Now, the Netherlands will have to reach 14% of renewable energy by 2020. However, we are not in danger of achieving this goal. And what has the Netherlands, this minister, done now? It buys certificates of renewable energy abroad, in this case Denmark. At least EUR 100 million is involved. That amount is simply transferred to the Danes. We get nothing physically in return but on paper we can say: we have achieved the goals. What are the Danes going to do with these 100 million euros? Build a hydrogen plant, which Mrs Mulder so strongly supports. So we throw that money across the border. The Danes are going to do all kinds of beautiful things about it. We don't have to, but doesn't Mrs Mulder think that money should just stay here? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u56	It is, of course, terrible that we simply failed to achieve that objective. We've agreed to it, but it just hasn't been made, even in Europe, when you've committed to it in advance. You make appointments. At the CDA, too, when you make an appointment, you keep it. However, if we want to achieve our objective in such a way that something extra is being done, then I think the Minister has done very well with the Danes. As I said to Mr Moorlag, we also need to work with our neighbouring countries on hydrogen, because we are not going to be able to do it on our own, including in terms of the final cost advantage. So an investment in that is partly also an investment in ourselves. That's how I see it. You can see that differently; you can. But also take our harbor. There are a lot of people working there. I know that there are a lot of PVV voters, and they also benefit from the fact that there is a little economy and that we keep looking across the border, Mr Kops. However, I would like us to take these steps, if we are going to take them in the field of hydrogen, and if we are going to have a chance for our economy, in a smart and good way. So I'd rather not have done it like this. It's definitely not my first choice. I hate that it has to be like that. But if you still have to spend money, I think it's a good investment to do it with the Danes. You're gonna get something for that, too. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he expects to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u57	This is striking. Mrs Mulder talked about economics and jobs, jobs for PVV voters. Indeed, I can tell you that there are undoubtedly a lot of PVV voters working in the coal power stations, who want to shut down the CDA, which means thousands of people are just gonna be on the street. It would be nice if Mrs Mulder would acknowledge that, too. But that wasn't really the question. It was about hydrogen. Surely it is too bizarre for words that the Netherlands pays at least 100 million to Denmark, for which we actually get absolutely nothing in return? We'll just give that away. We can then say on paper 'Look at us, we have achieved the goals', when that is not really the case. And the Danes are going to build a hydrogen factory with our Dutch tax money, which Mrs Mulder herself would have preferred in the Netherlands. How hypocritical do you want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u58	That's not hypocritical at all. We have made agreements in Europe, and when you make agreements, you stand by them. The minute you don't make your appointments, you get a fine. That's what we think. The PVV just wants to pay those fines nicely. That's the PVV's alternative. It's okay, but it's not my alternative. Then I would prefer that we continue to develop hydrogen with each other, including the Danes. Again, it hasn't been my first choice to do it this way, but it runs like this and then you have to get it right. Then you'll have to act on a case-by-case basis. I do this in a different way from Mr Kops of the PVV. That is also quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u59	Finally, Mr President. Isn't it crazy what Mrs. Mulder is saying here? We have committed ourselves to all kinds of EU targets that we cannot meet, and in order to get them on paper, we are going to throw hundreds of millions of euros. They're just being transferred abroad. That's crazy, isn't it? At the same time, Mrs Mulder says that we will get fines from Europe if we do not. This only shows what kind of perverse system we have found, that we have no choice but to spend money on the left or right? Mrs Mulder must agree with us that it is a perverse system that we must get out of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u60	No, I'm incredibly pro-Europe, and I'll tell you why. It brings us a great deal of peace. You make arrangements with each other, too. Luckily, we've been doing that for a lot of years. If you go to war with each other, it'll cost a lot of money, a lot of billions, maybe 1,000 billion, Mr. Kops. So war is a very bad alternative. Then I think: it's the less pleasant sides when you make agreements that you may sometimes have to pay a fine. I'd rather not pay the fine, but I'd rather invest. That's the choice the CDA makes. I would have preferred to have just achieved our goals in the Netherlands. That is why I asked for money for SMEs in the budget last year and asked how we could get more sunshine. Let us do these developments in our own country. That's the CDA's plea. But if there's really no other way, I think this might be the least bad variant. But that's good? No, that's definitely not him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. Where the Green Deal for Ursula von der Leyen was a man-to-the-moon moment, climate policy for the VVD is just a matter of sobering up and working hard on the good measures for the next 30 years. Over the next 30 years, we need to take smart measures, focusing on innovation, cost-efficiency, seduce instead of punishment and sobriety instead of making it work. In those 30 years, we must maintain sufficient flexibility to take advantage of new technology and ensure that the Netherlands does not sell itself out of the market, by creating a level playing field with the other Member States and by ensuring that Dutch and European companies are competitive in the world. If all this happens, the Green Deal will also benefit the Netherlands. How's the cabinet gonna make that happen? For ideally, our Climate Agreement will be seamlessly integrated into the EU's proposals. In fact, if they have the same effect as their own Dutch plan, then we must join those European plans. Think of the CO2 tax. I would prefer to see a rapidly tightened ETS system in Europe that has the same effect, which could eventually eliminate the need for a Dutch tax. What is the Cabinet going to do to make this happen? In shipping and aviation, international agreements are better than a European all-inch. This will ensure the competitiveness of European airlines worldwide and prevent ports from becoming more attractive just outside the EU than EU ports. It is therefore better to regulate the sustainability of maritime transport at IMO level than by placing it in the ETS, and of aviation through ICAO. I'd like to hear how the Cabinet intends to handle this. We are also more critical of the impact of proposals for mobility, agriculture and built environment than the cabinet response. For example, the VVD does not like to implement romantic ideas such as a very strict approach to circular agriculture under the banner of climate policy, close to innovations that can connect sustainability much better with a thriving agricultural sector that can feed the world. While something simple like fertilizer is replaced by animal manure, which is good anyway, has been blocked for years by the same European Commission. It's time for the cabinet to put more pressure on this. Financing must prevent European climate policy from being made up of a large pot of money, looking for projects, rather than the other way round. Nor should the Just Transition Fund become just a pot of money for lagging regions in countries that do not have their public finances in order, but in such a case it should be linked to necessary reforms. Really annoying such an interruption. But I'll have a cliffhanger!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u63	I think Mr Harbers is looking for an interruption. About that Just Transition Mechanism. The appreciation of the cabinet is positive and we get a new sheet because the proposal has been amended, we understand. But I was curious about the position of the VVD. I ask this because I have read back what your group colleague said in the debate with the Prime Minister prior to the European summit. Where does the VVD stand when it comes to the Just Transition Mechanism and supports the positive appreciation of the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u64	This positive appreciation of the cabinet also has concerns and I would like to draw attention to them. Yeah, it's good to have a Just transition fund. As far as the VVD is concerned, it should not be used unbridled everywhere. Of course, it is good if there is a region in the Netherlands that can still benefit from it, but that is not the main objective. What I would like to draw attention to, later on in the development of this transition fund, is that you must always keep a close eye on what the Member State can do. We discussed the example of Silesia in Poland with Mr Timmermans. Everyone can see that this region cannot shut down 30 coal mines on its own and can also keep people in jobs there. I accept that. And I can also accept that this is not from the Polish government budget and that Europe can help there. But what I want to avoid is that money will soon be spent unbridled in regions, even where the national government, if it were to make some other choices on its own national budget, which could have been financed largely or entirely by itself. That is what this transition fund needs to stay focused on, so that it helps precisely where it is needed and not unbridled across Europe in places where sometimes just wrong choices are made by national governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u65	That's a clear answer. I'm against wasting money, too. I understand that the VVD is in principle also positive about the mechanism, the idea. I would like to return to an earlier point made by Mr Harbers. This was about the enhanced ETS, which we all want, also because it helps us to achieve our national climate policy perhaps more cost-effective but even with more reduction. That is why I repeat the question I asked Mrs Mulder. Would Mr Harbers also like to hear from the Minister, perhaps with the help of the planning agencies, what an ambitious Green Deal could lead to reductions here, but also to further improvements in the cost-effectiveness of climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u66	I was just thinking about that when Mr Van der Lee interrupted Mrs Mulder. I am sure Mr Van der Lee knows that I have a fondness for having all these scenarios and figures in mind. I am sure they will be, even if only because Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Mulder have just asked the Minister to do so. However, I would not like to have it directly for the purpose of Mr Van der Lee. I think it is good to get a picture of what we can gain from it in the Netherlands. I think it would be good, for example, to see how a strengthened ETS can help us in the Netherlands not only to introduce our own CO levy, but also to phase it out. But if it is Mr Van der Lee's intention to get the debate on multi-annual financing in the European Union and the issue of transfer, loans and gifts out of the way, you know the debate that is taking place there, we should all not be so sorry that we are even more generous in our pockets for the financing of the European Union, then I say: I would not want to use those calculations for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr Sienot's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u68	My final question is, of course, for Mr Harbers. Mr Harbers started his intro by saying that we actually have 30 years. Now I want to hear him right, because I agree with his realistic story. But the fact that we have 30 years is a little out of place. We're in a hurry, and it takes a lot of work. Does Mr Harbers share the view that it is hard work and that we also need targets for 2030 and 2040?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u69	There is a target for 2030 and there is a target for 2050. Complete sustainability cannot be achieved faster than in 30 years. I agree that we should get started. We also started: last year there was a Climate Agreement in the Netherlands, now there is a proposal for a Green Deal in Europe. But I also advocate realism and do not want to draw hugely expensive sprints, for example when it comes to new technology. You have to accept that innovation has just begun, with a climate agreement and a Green Deal in hand, and that the next 10, 15, 20 years will lead to new breakthrough technologies that will be a shame if we cannot introduce them later. That is why I call for flexibility and adaptability to adjust your plans when there are better technologies than we have today, because we know they are coming. I would like to point out that it is really difficult for the financial plans to abandon the principle of steering towards one goal, which is to reduce CO emissions, and sometimes to sneak into other areas for and against them. For example, the Green Investment Directive has not previously achieved the highest degree of sustainability. I would remind the Minister that, in the course of the budgetary procedure, he promised that this would not and will not in any way harm the chances of achieving more nuclear energy in the Netherlands. For us and the cabinet, you certainly cannot exclude nuclear energy from the future energy mix. This should not be made more difficult somewhere at EU level. The VVD also prefers a clean deal than a green deal. "Clean" is clean and no CO emissions. Nuclear energy also contributes to this. The Green Deal now contains a "do not harm" principle, which seems to be being used again in Brussels because of nuclear waste to manoeuvre nuclear energy to the sidelines. I therefore ask the cabinet to remain very critical of this and to continue to exert pressure on nuclear energy in all the effects that are currently taking place in the EU. There should be no selective shopping. When it comes to nuclear waste, solar panels and wind turbines must also include future waste. Finally, the Green Deal also invests in innovation. The Netherlands is good at bringing in European innovation funds. I ask the cabinet to ensure that this will work again here, for example in the case of European hydrogen ambitions, which are well in line with the Dutch hydrogen vision. How's the Cabinet gonna do that? Finally, I agree with Mrs Mulder's questions on delegated acts. Actually, I don't even agree with the questions, but with the criticism. We don't want that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u70	I would like to ask Mr Harbers a question about the Farm to Fork strategy. The food section is well-stocked, to my taste. When we look at the footprint of agriculture and food production and consumption, it is incredibly large. I also know that Mr Harbers is very much of technological innovation. My question to Mr Harbers is whether we should use the combined technological knowledge we have in the agricultural field to achieve the Farm to Fork strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u71	Where Dutch knowledge is concerned: absolutely. In fact, the Netherlands has been doing this since time immemorial, because all the knowledge in agriculture in the world is in our own Wageningen. But what I'm warning you about is this. The Farm to Fork strategy, including agricultural policy, must also be based on one thing: reducing CO emissions. Then we have a few other things in the Netherlands. For example, if you limit nitrogen emissions at the same time, it is also fantastic. But focus on that, too. What I also see in this European strategy is that all kinds of things are being added. We need more land for organic farming. If it can be done in another way with less CO, I do not need to go for organic farming immediately. There are a lot of good things in this Farm to Fork strategy, but let's just look at the main goal. We are barely getting what we need to do with Natura 2000 in the Netherlands, and then you can see that in this strategy Europe is going to have to ask for many more sites to be designated for Natura 2000 or similar sites. In any case, this can no longer be done on the territory of the Netherlands. That warning, that concern, I'm giving to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u72	I understand Mr Harbers' critical remarks, but I think we agree that agriculture needs to become more sustainable. We also know that the Netherlands has taken huge steps in a number of sectors. For example, look at the greenhouse horticulture. If you look at the growth of the world's population and the increase in protein consumption, is my question to Mr Harbers: should we not be leading the way in making agriculture more sustainable, and should we also be marketing it within Europe and making it part of the European food strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u73	Yeah, but that's exactly what it is. Let us focus on sustainability, less CO emissions. Let us achieve this with all the technological knowledge and other knowledge in the Netherlands. Then it would be good in the end. I mean, if in more countries in Europe the same food production is achieved as in the Netherlands, the world has a less big food problem and you can also get the hunger out of the world. But let's take that into consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u74	We all know the love of the VVD for nuclear energy. I heard Mr Harbers say he's pleading for a clean deal. Apparently, Mr Harbers also thinks the nuclear waste is clean. I don't think so. He then said, "Let's apply equal monks, equal hoods," and treat nuclear waste equal to waste from windmills. But will he acknowledge that this really is a comparison of apples and pears and that nuclear waste is certainly not "clean" to use his words?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u75	No, I'm not gonna acknowledge any of that. We have a CO problem. So you have to generate power in a way that it doesn't emit CO. You can do that with solar panels. You can do that with windmills. I'm not against that at all. I'm just finding that you need to watch where you do that. Solar panels are only beautiful on rooftops and not in large fields. Windmills are especially very far at sea, because you can see what they cause on land every time in turmoil. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that nuclear energy is also included in that whole palette, because there is no CO in the air, and so it is clean. And so I think "clean" is even more beautiful than "green," because in a green deal, apparently, there is always such a stigma that you cannot use nuclear energy for that. I'm just arguing for CO-free energy, simple as that. Then there is the waste problem. As far as I am concerned, the future waste from solar panels and wind turbines does not have to be included, but I note that it is always included in nuclear energy. We know what nuclear waste is, but we already know, in the Netherlands, how to store it fantastic so that it never affects you again in his life. Go see how we do that in Vlissingen. Then you can also work up that waste so that it can be reused, circular. So it is not a comparison of apples and pears; that is precisely what is happening in Brussels. I merely advocate that nuclear energy should also be seen as a proper way of dealing with waste, so we do not have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u76	The Dutch nuclear waste is stored at COVRA, but that is a temporary solution. The Netherlands still has no idea at all how we are going to permanently recover our nuclear waste. That is also very complicated, because we are really talking about a problem that needs to be solved for thousands, some say hundreds of thousands, of years. Will Mr Harbers acknowledge that this problem is really many times greater than the waste from windmills and solar panels, which is currently being worked hard at all kinds of colleges and universities to see how to recycle materials from them very well? So recycling on the one hand and thousands, hundreds of thousands of years of a waste problem on the other hand that we do not yet have a solution for. I really think it compares apples and pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u77	I don't think so. It's safe in Vlissingen and there's already plenty of thought about how you're gonna do it in a century. I simply note that we cannot afford the luxury of excluding CO-free options now. In the future you still need basic burden. I give Mrs Dik-Faber a note saying that the struggle for the scarce space in the Netherlands is getting bigger and bigger. Where can you plant windmills later? Where else can you put solar panels with no effort? We see that in many dossiers and we also discussed this last week in the debate on nitrogen. Then you shouldn't close your eyes to the fact that you can also generate a lot of megawatt power in one power plant that has a relatively small storage capacity, compared to all other options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u78	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Imagery in politics is always risky. Personally, I would have welcomed it if Commission President Von der Leyen had said: the Green Deal is actually a woman on Mars. That would have been innovative. If you look at the facts, cooperation will make Europe the only continent that has succeeded in decoupling economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. The Green Deal, if ambitious enough, can be a lever to convince other continents to take the same steps. It could also be a lever to help those Member States that are getting behind the facts in Europe. If we're honest, that's the case with the Netherlands. We are seven percentage points behind the European average when it comes to reducing greenhouse gases. With a number of other small countries, which are even smaller than we are, we are very much behind in terms of the share of renewable energy. We have one of Europe's most fossil-intensive economies. We need Europe to realise our own tasks. That is why I hope the Minister is prepared to provide insight into what the Green Deal, an ambitious Green Deal, can mean for our climate policy in terms of CO reduction and better, even better cost-effectiveness. We may differ on what we do with those insights, but I think we are all entitled to that insight. If we look at the Green Deal itself, it can of course be even better. Colleagues have already mentioned the ETS. A very tighter ETS is going to help us all. I regret that the assessment of the CO tax at the border is positive-curious. I find curiosity a positive feature, but I find this judgment a bit cryptic. Why aren't we just being positive? That is very important, also for our industry. A fair playing field, also globally. That's more exciting. Extending the ETS to mobility and the built environment is also advocated and why? Because that is an important part of the German climate plan. I wonder why the cabinet isn't more enthusiastic about that. They're talking about price elasticity and maybe it's working a little less well, but politically, it seems to me to be a very important step to further expand the ETS. I'd like an opinion on that, too. What's missing is a... I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u80	You may finish your sentence, but it is no different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u81	I was just wondering about the positive-curiosity about the CO-frontier tax. I noticed that, too. However, Mr Van der Lee's unbridled positivism seems to be somewhat blinding to the fact that such a CO-frontier tax also has many complexities. How does he look at that? Think of semi-finished products for industry. How are you gonna price that? But there are so many more countries outside the EU that also adhere to the Paris goal. Does Mr Van der Lee not fear that you will have a very complicated administration at the border? What are you doing with a product from Canada, which may have different goals on the way to Paris' goals? Do you have to fully price it, half price it, not price it? Does Mr Van der Lee not fear that this can lead to incredibly many intricacies that simply harm our business?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u82	I understand these concerns, but on the other hand, such a mechanism is also a lever after the introduction of further pricing of CO. We both want that, not only in Europe but worldwide. This can play an important role in this. Where you and I say about the Just Transition Mechanism 'positive, but it is a good effect', this also applies here: positive about the idea and the need for pricing, also in order to ensure that other continents take action on this issue. I also think you should build it carefully. So it shouldn't be a completely elaborate complex system with which you really take everything at the same time. I don't think that's gonna happen either. You can build that in time. I believe that there are opportunities and that we in the Netherlands, with such a whole fossil economy and with a number of large industrial clusters, have much more than comparable countries of this size to benefit greatly. In my view, therefore, such a mechanism at our European external border is a welcome step, both economically and ecologically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u83	But if we find that it can have a positive effect, but that there are also a lot of complexities and that the proposal is not yet on the table, is it not perhaps the most sensible that we should just leave it to the observation that we should remain positively curious and not encourage the cabinet to drop that reservation now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u84	Here, too, it is also the question of who is champion of something within the Member States. Who is advocating it and who is thinking with the European Commission to work out this sort of thing? We have a great deal of interest in this matter. I believe that we are one of the Member States that will benefit most from this. So I think the enthusiasm can be increased. We are positive about it, but we are helping to ensure that it is worked out as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u86	I was actually in need of a number of other points of improvement. It's about aviation and shipping. There too, the ETS can mean a lot. I hope that the Minister will do his best. We share the ambition to achieve the intermediate target at 55% by 2030. So I'd love to hear from him what he's got in his back pocket before that. What are the measures, the means and the political agreements needed to achieve this? Shouldn't a number of adjustments be made in the Green Deal as we know it now if you really want to give that 55% target hands and feet? That's what we all want. The coalition that formed the Netherlands also wants this very much. I would also like to say a few words about rail traffic. It is a great pity that there will not be a major European plan of attack to strengthen our train network of international trains, especially on routes where there is now quite a lot of air traffic. Can the Minister make an effort to ensure that this really becomes an additional part of the Green Deal, also in order to achieve that 55% reduction, but also to ensure that the sense of justice is not undermined? We make a lot of efforts in all kinds of other domains, in the built environment and in our way of transport, but aviation gets an exception every time. This is becoming less and less easy to accept. For this reason, too, rail traffic must be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. That was exactly four minutes; very good. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't make it a cliffhanger: the PvdA supports the Green Deal. The concept is just good. It simply offers the prospect of a better life for the people of Europe. Clean, sustainable energy, less emissions and better health; that perspective is intertwined with the Green Deal. I think the government should be more enthusiastic on a number of points. If you look at the complexity of diplomatic traffic within Europe, I think: how is that consistent with the position that the Green Deal is fully endorsed? The cost is for the benefit. Resources will have to be made available to Europe to tackle the climate problem together. My question to the Minister is how he rhymes with the fact that on the one hand there is full support for the Green Deal, and on the other hand there is that jam and diplomatic movement about the financial resources for the Union. Then there is the second point I want to make. We need to look at how we can make the most of Europe's opportunities, given Europe's regional characteristics. The Netherlands is not the ideal place to generate solar power. You can do that very well in southern Europe and, to my taste, even better in North Africa. Then you could bring prosperity and economic activity to North Africa. You could generate solar energy there and convert it into hydrogen and get it to the Netherlands. What is the Minister's view of making good use of the opportunities offered by every region in Europe and even outside Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u89	I'm gonna go back a few sentences. Mr Moorlag spoke about the diplomatic stribble. He thinks the cabinet should be a little more generous. I would like to give Mr Moorlag the opportunity to make this a little more explicit. How am I supposed to take that remark? In addition to the regular budget and the almost equal budget in the context of the recovery as a result of corona, should there be a similar kind of budget under Green Deal and should the cabinet not be too difficult about it? Is that a proper perception?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u90	No, it's not as flat as Mr Bishop suggests here. Europe is a community of interests. In there, you have conflict of interest. But you also have common interests. You gotta stand up for that. In diplomatic traffic, not only what you say at the content level, the tone to which you bring it is important. If you want to achieve goals in common, I think that the Netherlands in that interest community should not look too much at the self-interest in terms of the financial contribution that is being made, but should also look at the opportunities that it offers. I think the Green Deal offers a lot of opportunities for our country. Opportunities for economic growth, the creation of green jobs and the further development of our sectors, for example our agricultural sector. There's just opportunities there. And the cost is for the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u91	Last question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u92	I wish I had a few more, but that's not the case. I don't really understand. Europe is a community of interests. Of course, we have shared interests as a European continent, especially because you work together within a European Union. You also have shared interests in the field of the Green Deal, i.e. climate and environment. But then there is a comment about the financial state. How does the PvdA view this? In addition to the regular budget and the corona budget, should there be a Green Deal budget, so a triple of the EU's current budget? Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u93	That is a no, because Mr Bishop's simplification does not do justice to the situation or to relations. My plea is that we should not only look at the budgets that we have lost to Europe, but also at the potential that exists to strengthen the earning capacity of our national economy. I think the Netherlands has really great opportunities. I am thinking now of hydrogen, which Mrs Mulder talked about. In a 250 km radius around the Netherlands lies a huge cluster of chemical industry and energy-intensive industry. I believe that together with Europe, we can move towards a clean, hydrogen-powered economy. So my plea is also to focus on the potential that exists in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u94	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u95	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was in the hydrogen economy. The industry will have to make that leap. The industry also wants to make that leap. Sometimes the impression is that that is not heartfelt, but meanwhile there is the realization: if you don't jump, you will be pushed. I have already said about industry and hydrogen in my interruption to Mrs Mulder: Germany is now paying EUR 9 billion for the hydrogen strategy, and the Netherlands is about EUR 35 million. In Germany, it has been converted by Land over half a billion euros. My question to the Minister is: does he think that the hydrogen strategy needs to be adjusted, and that we should look at how, together with the ambitions of our German neighbours and with the ambitions of the Green Deal, we can give greater impetus to the hydrogen-based economy in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands still has a distinctive point. That is the agricultural sector. We have major problems there, but we also have great opportunities for sustainability. If you look at our system of food production and consumption globally, you can see that it is not sustainable. Every resident of the Netherlands eats about 70 grams of animal protein. If, with a world population still growing strongly, every world citizen is going to consume 70 grams of animal protein, the chainsaws will be sold out, because then deforestation will increase incredibly. My question to the Minister is: how does he look at this Farm to Fork strategy? What opportunities does he see for our agricultural sector? When I was interrupting, I pointed out that we have incredibly clustered knowledge here. How can we use them to make food supply more sustainable, within Europe, but even outside Europe? And how can we shape the protein transition? What opportunities and opportunities does the Minister see for this? Mr President, I shall conclude. The climate problem does not abide by borders. It's very cross-border. It is very good that this is currently being addressed through a Green Deal at a European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u96	I would like to return to the beginning of Mr Moorlag's speech. That was all very vague: "We are for this Green Deal, because climate, because green and health, and it creates jobs." It's all very vague, actually. But as far as those jobs are concerned, I'd like to ask you something. It provides jobs, Mr Moorlag says. Can he explain that? Firstly, the closure of coal power stations in the Netherlands, for which the PvdA is a strong supporter, will cause thousands of jobs to be lost anyway. Secondly, TNO recently concluded that the Dutch Climate Agreement would create 39 000 to 72,000 additional jobs. Then a complaint came in, and then suddenly that research result had to be adjusted. It was not right at all, because the Climate Agreement provides net zero jobs. That was the conclusion of the investigation. So once again, what jobs does this climate policy generate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u97	I think it's a lot of green jobs. I don't know if Mr Kops ever drives around. Just look at all those builders' vans of installers installing solar panels on rooftops. See what happens to me in the region, in the Eemshaven. That's just gonna be a base for wind farms at sea. It is not just about construction, but it will also have to be maintained and replaced every so long. You can choose to let our euros, or the guilders we had in the past, go to Saudi Arabia and to Russia to buy our energy, but you can also generate it yourself. And I think Mr Kops is stabbing his head in the sand. Mr Kops puts his head in the sand when he denies that the greening of our economy is not accompanied by job growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u98	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Europe is going to take ambitious steps in the area of climate and nature, and that has the full support of the Christian Union. It is about caring for our common home, and with those words I quote Pope Francis with his green encyclical. If we don't take good care of our common home, the residents won't be well either. Climate problems are cross-border and the solutions therefore require cooperation. With a shared internal market in Europe, it makes sense for us to look together at a strategy for sustainability. Mr. Chairman. You may wonder how wise it is to invest in sustainability in a period of corona, in an economically difficult time. But my group believes that it is very sensible to do so now, to ensure that our society becomes resilient and will remain future-proof. The new economy has just been the subject of a very large number of jobs. That's what it takes. The Christian Union considers it important that the Green Deal be just and benefit all people. Mr. Chairman. It is encouraging to see that there is an alliance between small and large Dutch companies. They have joined forces and advocated a lasting exit from the crisis. The United Nations Development Goals are the focal point and the Green Deal can support the transition. My group welcomes that. Mr. Chairman. In the vision "Agriculture, nature and food: valuable and connected" the Minister of LNV, Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality outlined the shift to circular agriculture. As far as our group is concerned, this is the future of our farmers. I have the following question to the cabinet: is the Green Deal going to help us carry out this vision? Everything stands or falls with the income model for the farmers. In Europe, there are much higher demands on agriculture, but then trade agreements are concluded which require farmers to compete against unfair competition from abroad, from other parts of the world. At the same time, Europe wants to stimulate demand for local products; that is good. But how is this made concrete? How will farmers' negotiating position be strengthened vis-à-vis supermarkets? Mr. Chairman. I see a real tension here: on the one hand, trade agreements are concluded and on the other hand, it is said that we want to strengthen the European market. It can't be both. Will the cabinet be committed to keeping food out of trade agreements and strengthening the European market? With Wageningen University and strong agriculture, we have a lot of knowledge to be a guide country for other European countries. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of biomass. There's more and more scepticism about that. In the conversation we had two weeks ago with Mr Timmermans, he also indicated that there is a tension between climate ambitions and the biodiversity crisis. The European Commission is currently reviewing how sustainable biomass actually is. I quote from a recent report by the PBL: 'Direct combustion of primary biomass is one of the least preferred options'. They actually say in very diplomatic language that this is just the dumbest thing you can do. Mr. Chairman. This is very similar to the feed measure in the nitrogen dossier. I notice that we are taking measures from the government that are legally correct and yield profits on paper, but that are not feasible in practice. Sometimes they even do the opposite. That is why I have the following question: does the Minister recognise that biomass is no longer the way forward? Then I get to the point of nature. I see you're letting me speed things up. How realistic is the tripling of nature in the Netherlands? Can we not make much better use of the ecological main structure and strengthen nature by seeing nature as a carrier of all spatial developments, including in urban areas? In fisheries, we have seen that politics between countries can be a real obstacle to sustainability. I'm referring, of course, to the pulse. How are we going to prevent this in the future? I'm joining an attack plan for the train. How is the European Union going to use its position as a power block to finally bring air and shipping under the ambitions of the Paris Agreement? Finally. North Netherlands wants to become a frontrunner in energy transition and sees itself as a pioneer in the green hydrogen economy. Does the Cabinet see opportunities to make a plan together with Northern Netherlands and other regions, so that our regions are well-ordered for a contribution from the fund for a fair transition, the Just Transition Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mr. Chairman. If facts matter less, the end is lost. If we refuse to do objective research, we lack good information to make the right decisions. If we don't or don't measure correctly, and then load bad data into non-functioning models, we get results that don't make sense: mess in, mess out. Striving for less waste, more efficient use of energy, local production, fewer transport movements and lower transport costs: it's all good. Of course we should not emit carcinogenic substances, and of course it is good to isolate our homes. And of course technological progress is a blessing. But let's approach it technically, not religiously. How did it happen that the pursuit of a sustainable society and a technically responsible energy transition has degenerate into a billion-dollar devouring mass hysteria? Shouldn't we just look at yields, emissions, efficiency and efficiency? It is quite easy to classify the energy forms according to efficiency. Nuclear energy is probably in the first place and natural gas is on two. The burning of biomass is probably in the very last place. Does the Minister agree with me that it would be better if we had a technical approach and a return on investment? In the case of energy-saving measures, insulation of houses is likely to yield the most efficiency. Does the Minister agree with me that it is bizarre that monuments in the Netherlands, for example, should not be preserved? It would be a huge step if all houses in the Netherlands had zero on the meter. We really don't need a Green Deal for that. On the contrary, it pays itself back. It will be so in the case of mobility that, against all expectations, clean diesels are better than electric cars. In short, this Green Deal is a megalomaniac project that is technically unsubstantiated and will cost an astronomical amount of money. Moreover, security of supply is at risk and we become dependent on other countries. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Isn't it much better to present a plan of your own, which does cut wood and doesn't have to cost anything? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u102	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u103	Madam President, thank you very much. When I look at the pieces, I find a bit of a green blur in the eyes of the European Commission. I also have the impression, however, that this blur has caused the vision of subsidiarity to disappear rather firmly. Of course, on these issues too, European cooperation is urgently needed. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. This is the case for issues such as cross-border energy infrastructure, circular production policy, aviation emissions, car emissions and an effective emissions trading system. That's all true. But the Commission is going a lot further in the Green Deal. I'll mention a few things. A comprehensive review of national energy and agricultural plans; by Brussels. Policies against congestion and air quality problems in cities; checked by Brussels. Survey of national budgets to see if they are green enough; through Brussels. A European competence framework for greener education and education! ........................................................................................................................................................................... Money for the sustainability of school buildings; Brussels involvement. Removing national regulatory barriers to renovation; its implementation controlled by Brussels. A climate pact to convince the public and to encourage citizens' initiatives; Brussels is monitoring it. Addressing energy poverty; Brussels directs. And perhaps as a kind of blow to the head: the task of EU institutions to engage in direct dialogue with our citizens. Isn't that exactly the position from which it's thought? That is contrary to any kind of subsidiarity, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Maybe this is a lot of useful things here. I don't want to talk about that right now. But does Brussels really think that he knows better on these points and can the Hague or Vienna or Lisbon? Not to mention the European climate law, with which Brussels wishes to claim the power to set individual intermediate targets for CO reductions and to make the far-reaching targets for 2030 and 2050 binding on individual Member States by regulation. Such objectives have a huge impact on our society. They should not be regulated by a European climate law. They are the responsibility of national governments and national parliaments. That is why we find it unimaginable that the cabinet in the BNC sheet is actually criticising subsidiarity in the one paragraph. I am convinced that this does not do justice to the motion adopted about six months ago, the first of which was my name, which calls for an explicit review of the principle of subsidiarity. The cabinet itself has promised a thorough assessment. I guess we still owe it to him. I have a specific question for the Minister: how and when will the cabinet implement it? Does the Brussels cabinet choose a firm, own position, a position against this claimable behavior, rather than moving along with a scratch here and there in the margins? A sustainable course is necessary, but let us not give up the helm. The cabinet is very committed to 55% CO reduction in 2030. Does the Minister know what this means? I will give the answer: no, because there has not even been an impact assessment. It's the reverse world. Then you might also ask yourself whether the Minister really thinks that there will be support for the climate agreement on this point again. What are the good words about feasibility, affordability and acceptance if this unfeasible 55% target in 2030... I say again: an unfeasible objective, as it turns out......................................................................................................................................................................................................... To make a long story short: it's either one or the other. The question is, what does the cabinet choose? Does the SGP opt for green cooperation? Yes. For a green superstate? No. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u105	Mr. Chairman. We have already had numerous debates on this subject. Everyone knows how the cards were shaken. GroenLinks and D66 want a comprehensive climate transition. In the meantime, the VVD and the CDA want to do so, and therefore submitted together with them the controversial Climate Act, which binds future generations to absurd and completely unfeasible, priceless and unworkable goals, such as the 95% reduction in our total CO emissions, which will inevitably bring our entire economy together. The VVD, the CDA, D66 and GroenLinks say they are afraid of the flooding of the Netherlands, but in fact it's all about money, a lot of money: the green industry must continue, subsidies must continue to flow. It is not true that man has a huge influence on the climate. Even if we were to throw our entire economy on the kick and everyone would have to go to the heat pump and the electric car, we would realize in the most optimistic scenario 0.00007°C less warming. That is so according to their own figures. On a European scale, this is no more than 0.005°C. Once again, if the extremely unlikely climate models are right, which is not the case at all. Besides, the rest of the world isn't in it. So when the whole of Africa gets on air conditioning and the whole of India gets on the car, we have sacrificed our entire economy and our entire landscape to this climate madness. Nor is it true that it makes sense to sacrifice all this prosperity to the reduction of that little bit of CO that we emit compared to other countries. It is not true that it will ever be profitable to grant subsidies to wind turbines, solar fields and so on. This policy only means that Dutch people are going to pay a lot more through taxes and an ever higher energy bill, which has already increased by more than 25% under the Rutte Cabinets. Nor is it true that it is the people who are proposing this all to improve the environment or something like that. Climate and environment are constantly being lumped together. That's totally wrong. Of course, we must be a good environment for a good environment. But again, there is no point in putting all Dutch prosperity on the line for up to 0.00007°C less warming. Mr. Chairman. All economic activity, all human activity, emits CO. Would you like to turn on the fan or the heater? Do you want to take a shower? Do you want to drive? Would you like to have a package delivered? Would you like to eat meat? Do you want to have children? Climate neutrality includes full life. The climate law therefore gives the EU the opportunity to gain total control over our lives. CO as a metaphor to bring all human activity under the reach of Brussels power. And the VVD and the CDA are fully involved in that. So it's about power. It's communism through the back door. Climate thinking is therefore called a watermelon by more and more people. It may seem green on the outside, but inside it's red. It's about control. It is an excuse, a pretext, to regulate our lives in the smallest detail, to put all that control over the State, and that is not our own democratic Dutch state but the European Superstate. So it's pure power lust. And that when it makes no sense in any way. That may well be argued enough now. Even if it were all true, again, all those absurd projections of sea level increases and climate changes are probably all not true, but suppose it's true, it doesn't make any sense because the rest of the world doesn't participate. In short, this Green Deal, this EU grip, is an extremely bad idea. We will do everything we can to stop that power grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr Baudet is quite talented when it comes to spreading fables and hyperbols. But rarely is he able to justify his claims really well. Unfortunately, he was not in the debate about Groningen and the mining industry. Recently, Mr Baudet claimed that there would still be EUR 500 billion in the Slochterenveld. Look, I can also randomly call all kinds of huge amounts, but can you back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u108	Yes, I can. This is based on the fact that a few years ago 800 billion cubic metres of known reserves were registered. Since 60 cents was the usual gas price, that is about 500 billion. That doesn't mean, of course, that there may be that figure of 75 billion net income for the State that you can write down everything that is worth in the ground as a net income for the Dutch State, but for our total economy. That's like McDonald's. McDonald's has a certain turnover, but the Dutch State does not own McDonald's. But the added value benefits Dutch society, our engineers, our industry, our gas technology development, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mrs Beckerman also has a question. No, Mr. Van der Lee, you're not allowed anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u110	It's okay with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u111	Not from me. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u112	You may expect me to continue with Mr Baudet's disgusting statements about Groningen, but I do not. He had his chance yesterday to have a debate on this. I want to continue on the following. Mr Baudet says: we are going to do everything we can to stop this coup. There was the possibility to apply for subsidiarity tests. My group, together with the Animal Party and the PVV Group, has done so on many Green Deal legislative proposals. You weren't there. Why didn't you? Because that was precisely an opportunity to limit that power.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u113	This game has been going on for three years now. They say you weren't there at the committee. Our position, my position, on the European Union is well known, I think, as is my position on the climate plans. I will, of course, support every step in the right direction. That is to say, less EU. But to play this game in the vein of: then you weren't there, and there... To be honest, I find that a little childish. I think it's gradually part of the hazing of the Chamber, like: then you have to be there. Or: no, but there is that in that committee now, and you don't know that... I think it's slowly getting a little clowny to go into it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u114	"Clownesk." Beautiful, especially from you. The question wasn't whether you were with that committee. You're standing here saying you're gonna do everything you can. There are a number of parties that have tried to do anything about it. Perhaps you have listened to my speech just now. We find it very difficult for the European Commission to draw so much power. Then I'd like to ask you something else. There is still a chance of a new subsidiarity test. Would you be willing to support them? I'm not asking you to do a lot of work. I understand you can't follow all the committees. That's fine; your choice. But would you do that? If you say you want to do everything, you can't get away with 'I don't want to be in this debate and I don't want to be in that debate; I think it's just a game and clown behavior'. Are you going to do everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u115	No, what I think of clownsk...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u116	Or are you gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u117	What I find clownsk is that for the 32nd time, while here six or seven things are going on all at once, it is said to a fraction with two men... Every time that game is played. It's like hide-and-seek. Then you weren't there and then you weren't there. Once again, I will support what is possible to curb the power of the European Union as much as possible. But I am afraid of one thing in all these subsidiarity tests and that sort of thing. This is something that the European Union has traditionally... I'm going in on it, aren't I? You don't have to look so outraged when you get an answer to a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u118	That's how Mrs. Beckerman always looks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u119	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yes, very kind and very businesslike.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u121	Fine, we'll look into it, at your service. But one of the dangers of the European Union is that one of the ways in which the European Union has continuously increased its power is that it has developed all kinds of quasi-interpreting mechanisms in which you can then take a test. Then you have to agree with this and disagree with it. Eventually that increases, as it were, the legitimacy of the game as such. It's some kind of controlled opposition. I would really like to take a look at your plan to take a subsidiarity test. I only fear that the net result might be that the European Union will say: we have looked at all the pros and cons, we have let everyone speak and we have all heard people, and in the end it will become a step less with all the objections. Then it seems as if it is a kind of compromise, while net EU power is increasing. That's the danger. But I say again, fine, we're gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u122	That's nice. Mrs. Beckerman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u123	A subsidiarity test is not something Brussels is going to look at. That's not that quasi-interview you're talking about, but that's something we can do here as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u124	Yes, it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u125	Wait a minute, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u126	What I'm looking for is a majority. We've just heard the CDA confirm it's a hold-up. So it could be that there is a majority. If you say you want to do everything you can, you will have to be there when there is a majority in favour. That's all I'm asking of you, and I think that's a good opportunity. That is not Brussels' concern, but that is what we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u127	What could, of course, be done is for the House of Representatives to pronounce: we believe that contrary to the principle that, even if you are dependent on Brussels, you should still have some quasi-democracy at national level or something. I would, of course, support that in principle, but the problem with this type of procedure is, of course, always that it ends up with a Brussels body, which then looks at how many other countries think about it. In the end, a kind of suggestion of legitimacy comes out by participating in that game from where exactly the power of the EU can reach. That was my objection and that is also the danger that I see in it. I also think that this is evident from the fact that all those parties who keep saying 'we do want to do so, but we do not want to do so at European level', move a little more every few years. What everyone now agrees with was unthinkable a few years ago. And that's how it goes on and on. That's the big danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u129	I shall suspend the sitting for 30 minutes until 12.30 p.m. Then we also have the lunch break and then we continue.
