ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is the Act franchise (35392). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I see that there is a great deal of speaking time. Is that right? Mr. Graus, are you really going to talk for 20 minutes? Oh, no. Ten minutes. Really? We're gonna see it, because I understood it in itself... Well, I'm not saying anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to keep it short. I am standing here today as a substitute for my party colleague Frank Futselaar, who is currently in another room defending his own initiative proposal. Unfortunately, because of the overlap in the agendas, he cannot be there to deal with this important law himself. Because it's important, Mr. Chairman. The exploitation of successful formulas in the retail and catering sectors is indeed an important activity in our economy. I understand there are no less than 34,000 franchises in our country. Over 375,000 people work there. It is therefore important that the rules are clear and balanced. This means that there must be a balance of power between the franchisees on the one hand, and mostly small entrepreneurs on the other, and the franchisees on the other, which include the large international retail chains that we all know. The franchisee is formally an independent entrepreneur, but in practice he or she is very dependent on the formula and the company behind it. The bill we are discussing today concerns an extension in the Civil Code and regulates the relationship between these two key players. The SP welcomes the balance that has been found in this by the cabinet. The important questions we had were also answered with satisfaction. It's been a long time waiting for this law. Small franchisees in particular have been looking forward to it for a long time. The most important question I have today is therefore: how quickly can the Secretary of State bring this law into force? This law improves the position of these small entrepreneurs, of the franchisees. We have seen in the past that their situation in these relations is sometimes so bad that they go to court. But we have also seen that sometimes they do not even dare to go to court because of the imbalance in power. This law will hopefully reduce these kinds of situations in the future. But not everyone seems to be happy with a stronger position of the franchisees. The lobby of the large retail chains seems to want to counter this law. Unfortunately, I've seen the threat of lawsuits against the government come along a few times. Some even claim that franchises in the Netherlands as a whole will become less attractive. This seems unlikely to us as a Socialist Party, but what is the response of the Secretary of State to this? Can it rule out that this kind of criticism, coming from a corner where we could all have expected it, will lead to delays? Can it promise that the law will actually enter into force by January 2021 at the latest? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a practical question, which is no less important for the small businesses involved. In fact, I can imagine that the legal obligation of investigation which will apply to them in relation to the franchisee's obligation to provide information, which is found complicated. Is it ultimately the responsibility of the franchisee to provide the right information before a contract is entered into? Or is it ultimately also the responsibility of the franchisee, who can thus also be a small entrepreneur, to check whether he or she has received the right information? Is that obligation to investigate only based on the documents actually provided? Or is it wider than that? So what does such a small entrepreneur have to do reasonably to avoid getting into trouble afterwards? How exactly is it supposed to implement such an obligation of inquiry? Is the Minister prepared to organise good information and possibly guidance for small entrepreneurs on how they can implement this obligation of research in practice, for example through the Chamber of Commerce or otherwise? Then it is clear what is expected of them. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, the SP will at least support this law. We ask the Cabinet to enter into force quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, at the beginning of April, the Prime Minister surprised us with the words that the Netherlands is at its core a deeply socialist country. It is therefore festive that today we are discussing a deeply socialist law, defended by a CDA-manager and supported by a liberal party such as the VVD. D66 agrees so much that they do not even participate in the debate. It's a really special moment. So the flag can be turned off. I'm going to support this law. Then what is so deeply socialist about this law? Well, that it is under mandatory law quite far-reaching in the market, in market conditions and in the relations between commercial entities which cooperate very closely and prefer not to hang out the dirty laundry, but which sometimes get into conflicts in their cooperation. If you have a somewhat socialist perspective, you find that power inequality is really a problem. We see that, and others think it is from another ideological or religious belief. That's where we'll find each other. But there is an imbalance of power. This is not the case in all cases, because there are also forms of organisation that may show a little more balance between the franchisee and the franchisee. But in most cases it is simply inherent to the construction that there is power inequality. It is a good thing that legislation is doing something about this, but it is a fairly far-reaching procedure. I also understand that that raises some questions. Also look at the design of the law. They're pretty open standards. How to define them precisely in practice will probably only eventually be fought through case law. I wanted to ask you about the definition the Secretary of State is considering. What's a franchise relationship? Let me give you one example. I wonder if that will or will not be covered by this law. Look at the automotive industry. You have dealers who only sell cars of a particular brand or of brands owned or produced by one holding company. This has been the subject of contracts on the strengthening of the fire and sometimes also on shared ICT and HR services. Think also of agreements on funding. Is that a franchise structure? Suppose this holding company, for quite good reasons, decides to move quickly to electric cars...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This could lead to a significant loss of sales by a number of dealers, who say for this reason: we do not want this step to be taken. Can they, with this right of assent in such a situation, block the use of justified and important innovation in a time of temporary difficulty in terms of turnover? I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks of this type of case. Is that under this law or not? They are entrepreneurs, so they are creative and invent a lot of different types of constructions within which you can be commercially active. So you can also see forms in which some franchisees really have a very large size. Sometimes this has other reasons, also because this can be interesting in the context of fiscal constructions. I'm not that excited about that, but the question is whether you shouldn't set a certain limit on the size of the franchisee. I would like some reflection from the Secretary of State on that, also on the question of whether, if you are a very large franchisee, you might also be able to do with a little less rights. Anyway, I have some questions about that. I have not tabled any amendments. They are put forward from all sides, but I have not done so, because it is, in essence, a deeply socialist bill, and I support it. But there is one aspect that I would like to draw attention to and which I have designed in an amendment. That is why I think it is important that we evaluate it in good time. There's a lot of open standards in there. You're gonna do something whole new. Then there are always unintended effects, which you must have in mind in time. So I have put forward a proposal for an evaluation period which I think is reasonable. I am curious to hear the government's opinion on this. Then we can t.z.t. I also really want to make sure that all the concerns that have been mentioned in sections of the franchisees are justified at all. It may also be that in practice franchisees run into a number of things that may give rise to an even better law in the future. Well, that was actually my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u7	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u8	Mr Graus has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u9	I have the next question. I started consulting in 2010 for franchisees who were in trouble, who were in strangle contracts. No director has supported me in that, except this Secretary of State. Everyone's always laughed at me so far. I've filed six motions to protect franchisees. I have all the motions here: framework, a better earning model, guarantee, framework, improvement of the pre-contractual phase, mapping the problems of franchisees who are trapped in choke contracts, the code of honour that does not work and which must be legally anchored. I notice that GroenLinks, the VVD and the PvdA have never supported one motion; they were all against it. I know why, because it came from a PVV top. But we could have saved hundreds, maybe thousands of franchisees who went to hell for ten years. I'm sorry to have to say that, Madam President. I'm from the Eastern Mining District, and you can use it there. It hurts me so much. I know that your group chairman calls this 'grausen', but I have been arguing in favour of this framework for ten years. The SP did support me. The CDA did support me. But especially the parties that now use the biggest words...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u10	What about exactly, Mr. Van der Lee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u11	I do not have all these six motions ready, but I can tell you that the fact that it comes from the PVV really does not determine the voting behaviour of our group on PVV motions. We are also always looking at the substantive considerations. Furthermore, we have our own ideas on how best to intervene in market conditions. We can also have differences of opinion on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u12	I've been with us in the attic with really crying men across from me, really people who were totally stuck, totally screwed by the franchisers. There are plenty that have supported me, such as the SP and the CDA, but I didn't get the majority because the PvdA, GroenLinks and the VVD always went ahead. And now there will be a framework, albeit ten years too late. Thousands of entrepreneurs have gone to hell. It's just a call, because there's nothing we can do about it now. I will say something about it in due course, but please listen to someone who has put a great deal of effort into it. Mr. Ommzigt does that all the time; he bites himself. I'm a terrier too. I'm stuck in animal welfare, aviation and this kind of thing. Listen to another MP and do something with it. If I'm just asking you to investigate if what I'm saying is true, and if you don't support it, then it's unwillingness or you have a concrete plate for your head. I don't know, but when I see that a Member of Parliament is very emotionally involved in something and has consulted a lot of people... Listen to others, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u13	You made your point, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u14	It is my privilege that I may often listen to Mr Graus, including on other subjects. He's consistent; I'll admit that. At the same time, we make our own substantive considerations. In a previous position I had a lot to do with franchisees and investors and you have all kinds of tastes in it. There are very enterprising franchisees and there are also franchisees who take advantage of the risks that another takes without too much risk. It's a whole palette of different interests. I welcome the fact that this is now being implemented in this way. Thanks to Mr Graus' interruption, I remember that we have more often debates about the relationship between online platforms and parties operating on those platforms. There too you can speak of a kind of franchise relationship. A platform is being developed, for example for the delivery of restaurant meals, and that makes you big together. Does this law go so far as to affect that type of relationship? I don't really think so, but I'm not sure, because it's all not exactly defined. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mr Aartsen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Over the next fifteen minutes, I will explain this deeply liberal law along the lines of a number of liberal principles, such as freedom of contract and freedom of enterprise, to Mr Van der Lee. Capitalism, which has brought enormous prosperity to our society, will have an even better effect. Mr. Chairman. We're discussing a special law today. The preliminaries lasted almost 12 years. During that period much has been said about the law. But the law is also special because of its nature. The law regulates how entrepreneurs deal with entrepreneurs. That's pretty special in this house. We're usually a little reluctant about that. There is a good, healthy form of contract freedom and freedom of enterprise in the Netherlands. This ensures that a lot of entrepreneurs can generally do well, earn a healthy living and serve their customers well. I believe that this is of added value for our economy and for our society. This law is intended to resolve excesses and disturbances in the market. With this law, I believe that the government takes up its role as market master very well in cases where the freedom of contract and the freedom of enterprise of one person restricts or restricts the freedom of contract and the freedom of enterprise of the other. A liberal principle. When the freedom of contract is used, for example, to change one-sided contracts, so that entrepreneurs cannot move because they are stuck, freedom of enterprise is restricted. When incorrect or incomplete information is provided when entering into a contract, it is difficult to do well or to make proper use of your own contract freedom. If, after the termination of a contract, you, as a franchisee, are bound by a competitive clause for a long time, then that at the heart of the matter is the freedom of enterprise. It is therefore a good thing that this law exists, because these freedoms of SME entrepreneurs in particular can unfortunately be restricted because in some situations there is an intrinsically unequal relationship, because the franchisee often has more information, or is often a leader of a contract, or often has a much stronger negotiating position. In the majority of the 825 franchise formulas or the 31,000 franchisees, cooperation is going well. I think it's good to underline that here. As Mr Alkaya said, that is a great deal of prosperity. However, we have seen too often in recent years that SMEs in particular are getting into trouble, because there is inadequate cooperation between the franchisee and the franchisee. It is precisely SMEs that deserve our attention and also a piece of protection, because I believe it is of crucial value to our society. After all, Mkb'ers ensure the viability in our shopping street and in our village, and they sponsor the football club. And, let me just say, most of the Dutch work in small and medium-sized enterprises. This law therefore lays a ground on the market to prevent it from going wrong. The VVD is also satisfied with the balance and nature of the law, because the law merely stipulates that rules of the game must be agreed between entrepreneurs, but does not state which ones are in principle. That is an important liberal principle against perhaps the state-led part. It merely stipulates that the rules of the game should be agreed upon, but not up to three digits behind the decimal place in what detail. Mr. Chairman. The concepts of "good franchise" and "good franchise" are also expressed in open terms. That is good, because the situation in business practice is many times more diverse than we can imagine here at the Hague drawing table. Franchise cooperation is known in many smells and colors. We have a big franchiser with a lot of small franchisees. We also have a small franchiser with many small franchisees. We have a big franchisee with big franchisees. We have small franchisees with larger franchisees. I can go on like this for a while. We have a lot of different variants. It is therefore a good thing that this law is defined openly, because the situation by sector is also different, whether it concerns retail, catering, retail or business services. Everywhere there is a specific situation and there is customization. It is therefore a good thing that this law strikes a good balance, that the balance between the two entrepreneurs is restored, that there is a bottom-up in the market and that there is also room for entrepreneurs to determine the content of the rules of the game with each other. But, Mr President, as a VVD, we still have a number of questions, a number of concerns and a number of comments on certain issues in the law. I shall simply go along the lines of this legislative proposal, namely the transparency and investigative obligation at the pre-contractual stage, the interim amendment of the franchise agreement, the termination of a franchise agreement, and the consultation process, which is also a not insignificant one between the franchisee and the franchisee. I shall begin with the obligation of transparency on the part of the franchisee and the obligation of investigation on the part of the franchisee. The law requires franchisees to provide financial data relating to the intended location of a franchisee. In the absence of this, he or she will have to provide financial data that can be considered comparable. That makes sense in itself. In the note on the report, therefore, the cabinet clearly states what it means by comparability. But this wording is of course based on an already existing franchise formula, with someone who is already active in the market and who may already have such historical data. How should a new start-up franchiser interpret this provision? It obviously does not have any financial data from other shops around the intended location, because they are other companies. It's hard for him to know about that. Can the cabinet address the situation of start-up franchisees? How should they implement this transparency clause? I am also curious about the research obligation on the part of the franchisee. It is good when an entrepreneur informs himself beforehand, so that he knows which step he is going to take. In the note following the report, the cabinet therefore states that the lack of information must lead to questions from the franchisee. But whose responsibility is it if he does not ask questions about whether or not the right information is missing? It is important to have clarity about this. The cabinet also discusses circumstances in which the franchisee should seek external advice from, for example, an industry organisation or another expert. What circumstances does the cabinet specifically consider? When is this gonna happen? Can the Secretary of State give some examples of this? Then there are the interim amendments to agreements. It is a good thing that rules are in place on, for example, unilateral changes or requests for investment that are genuinely substantial and that affect the profitability and operation of a franchisee. Unfortunately, we have seen far too many bad examples of this. Again, such a major interim change often affects the freedom of enterprise. We are therefore positive about the fact that, when the threshold is exceeded, for example, the franchisee has the option of asking for permission from, for example, half of all franchisees, but also has the option of only asking for immediate consent from the franchisee who hits it or who affects it. This leaves room for innovation in these formulas to try something new. That is important, because the franchisee also has a care and maintenance obligation in the law. The franchisee can thus experiment in certain areas to see if an innovation actually works. It's not gonna be truncated in that. A fast food chain will experiment with vegan hamburgers in the centre of Amsterdam rather than for example in its location in Udenhout. It makes sense that he gets the room for that. However, we still have some concerns about the scope for innovation, especially about the tension between the franchisee's care and maintenance obligation on the one hand and the franchisee's consent obligation on the other. How do these two provisions relate to each other? Can the franchisee be held to a care or maintenance obligation of the formula when the franchisee in a majority one, two or three times refuse to agree to innovation or a change? How does this care and maintenance obligation of the franchisee relate to the new definition of, for example, good franchiseeship? The threshold above which consent for franchisees is required in new contracts will also be laid down in those new contracts. The current contracts are subject to a two-year transitional period in this Act. The Secretary of State writes: then the threshold will automatically fall back to €0. Thus, in the case of the franchisee, the franchisee will need at least half of the franchisee's consent for all changes up to the letter paper. I do not think that is entirely a desirable situation. It is good that this transitional period is in place, but we are afraid that franchisees will say in such a situation: we will allow the talks to last so long that they will expire for two years. Their negotiating position will then be much stronger, because the franchisee will then have to pass the franchisee for each change. What does the cabinet think of such a situation if it arises? How does that fit in the light of good franchise? I hope that the cabinet will be able to keep its finger on the pulse to avoid this situation, because I believe that this is also contrary to the objective of the law, namely good cooperation between the franchisee and the franchisee. Does the cabinet share this view of the VVD? This brings me to the issue of the consultation between franchisees and franchisees. The VVD expects a lot of the concepts of good franchise and good franchise. However, the legal comparison of the cabinet with the relationship between the landlord and the tenant or the relationship between the employer and the employee finds the VVD uncomfortable. I do not think that it is entirely appropriate either, because I believe that this situation is fundamentally different from that of others. This is a situation between entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. This law merely stipulates that the rules of the game must be there and not the content of the rules of the game. This law does not provide protection, but provides a level playing field. This is really fundamentally different from, for example, rent protection or labour law. Does the cabinet share this with the VVD and can it perhaps be compared with this a little nuance to reassure the VVD Group? In recent years, much has been said about the rules of the game between franchisees and franchisees. I believe that this law is a good result. Unfortunately, this process of self-regulation has not done much good for the relations between the representatives of both sides. I get that. That is understandable after such a long process, but it is a pity. In my opinion, you would like the parties to be able to make good model agreements or to conclude good model agreements, so that further government regulation is not necessary. The Council of State is also quite critical of the delegation clause. Given the many open standards and the definitions in this law, the VVD hopes that good cooperation in the polder will take place instead of a well-stocked order book in the Zuidas. Let's avoid legalization after this law. The note on the report also shows that the Cabinet would like to recommend such cooperation between representatives of both parties and that this could lead to model agreements and agreements. These can serve as a kind of standard in such a judgment. I think that, given the nature of the law, is a very good one. How does the Cabinet see this? I therefore believe that this legislative proposal could put a fine line under the previous process and initiate the new era of good cooperation between representatives of both parties. Finally, Mr President. The corona crisis has broken through this legal process. A lot of franchisees and franchisees are currently suffering from lead and lead and I think they are trying very hard to survive at all. I therefore hope that this law will support all those franchisees and all those franchisees who are currently trying to get through this crisis together as good partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Aartsen. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u18	I have listened carefully to the speech, but I think you have also tabled an amendment. I didn't hear about that. I would nevertheless like to explain why you are tabling this amendment together with Mrs Palland. Maybe I should hear that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u19	The reason for the amendment. Perhaps it is good to mention that this amendment ensures that the rules and purpose of this law apply in particular to Dutch territory. I think that is very logical, because it addresses the problems here in the Netherlands. Only, the cabinet chooses mandatory law. I understand that, too, because I just outlined the problem of contract freedom. If you wouldn't do that, then it's easy to say as captain of such a contract: well, then we deviate from the law and if you don't sign, sorry, then you don't have a business. So I think it would be wise to include this law under mandatory law. For parties based in the Netherlands because of the location climate, for which there is a lot of employment in the Netherlands and where many people and many families work, the problem is of course that if you are going to apply mandatory law, you must do so for all those situations in the rest of the world. I believe that this will harm our international competitiveness. This harms a lot of Dutch companies. This harms a lot of international companies that earn a healthy living, even with franchise formulas outside the Netherlands. Therefore, I think it is wise to say: this is the ruler's law, but you are free to depart from it if you agree. That is why Mrs Palland and I have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u20	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u21	Good. There is, of course, some concern, because of course there are franchisees who are also operating across our borders but have a head office here. You get the strange situation that franchisees in the retail sector in Belgium, for example, cannot rely on the rules that are available to the Dutch franchisees. And it can also lead to all kinds of behavioural effects when it comes to establishing the franchiser's office. Is it not better to look at this when assessing the law rather than introduce this geographical limitation in advance, which could also trigger all kinds of strategic behaviour and, in particular, cause displacement effects outside the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u22	That is why we are now tabling this amendment. My fear is that it would be harmful if this law were to apply to an international formula based in the Netherlands, which offers a lot of jobs here, which many families can eat a healthy sandwich of, and if it limits them to doing business with a million or billion company in South America. This will ultimately cost jobs for the Netherlands. We want to avoid that with the amendment. That is why I think it would be wise to look at it now and get it out of the law in this way. If the evaluation shows that it's all bad and bad because all kinds of false constructions have been used... But we don't expect that. Anyone who enters Dutch territory must comply with this law. Because the cabinet chooses mandatory law, it seems to me unwise to allow this to apply to international parties as well. In the end, this will cost the Netherlands jobs. We certainly shouldn't want that at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Aartsen. I now give the floor to Mr Graus, who has not been in this Chamber for a few weeks for a debate. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u24	I did have WHOs in committee rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u25	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u26	I've been in this room once. For the rest, like everyone else, we've been in trouble because of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u27	I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u28	Thank you. And we are lucky that we have not lost any loved ones. So we have no right to complain, Madam President, as long as we have not lost anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u29	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u30	Madam President. I have just started in an interrupting debate: I am a Member of Parliament who always gets stuck in a particular subject. Of course, I've been doing the Economic Affairs spokesperson since 2006. I'm also a former entrepreneur, just like my father. There's not a lot to say. There are far too few entrepreneurs here, but I am one of them. I've always had a lot of contact with entrepreneurs. Of course, I grew up with a businessman as a father. I noticed this very early, from 2010, during work visits, which I regularly do, because I get more out of work visits than from all those boring files. That's enough already, so I don't have to; I get a lot out of practice. Then I found out that every time it was franchisees who were in a lot of trouble. And indeed, I mentioned it: strangulation contracts, intimidation by franchisees. They were afraid of the legal consequences. And I know that: go defend yourself if you get a trial done and afterwards prove you're right; you've lost tens of thousands of euros, tens of thousands of euros, and sometimes more. So those people are afraid of that. They have families. They don't want to lose that money. Disgrace and unhappiness; I noticed it. What I'm saying is literally men crying, just trees of guys, hard workers. They were just tied to certain choke contracts. They were not happy, unhappy, dissatisfied with the earning model, the vision of the future, false competition. So I've experienced someone becoming a franchisee at a well-known supermarket. I won't mention the name "b" but then the franchise provider, the main chain of those supermarkets, went into his area, where he started that shop with a lot of pain and trouble, just delivered with his own delivery service! That's just outrageous, isn't it? And so I can really list hundreds of examples of what I've heard over the last ten years. But at some point, of course, I was going to lay it down with the Chamber and also with a previous Minister for Economic Affairs I will not mention the name because he cannot defend himself. I was literally put away like a crazy person. "Yes, and that's not right at all." And also bilaterally, eh: "it's not right at all" and "it's not so" and "you think all that" and "if you've spoken to a few people, then it turns out to be not at all." I've got all these motions. I won't name them all for Mr. Van der Lee, but I have all the motion numbers. I'll send it to him right away. I have put forward six motions for frameworks for franchisees, for a better earning model, for a better pre-contractual phase, for the prevention of numerous costly legal disputes and for the identification and investigation of the problems. Look, and I think that's something. If you're against it, it's just incomprehensible. If a Member of Parliament says 'I have so many examples and I can name so many chains, franchisees and franchisees' and the Minister doesn't want to do it yet, then that is unwillingness and party politics. Everyone can say a lot about the PVV and about me, but what we won't do soon, really never, I can remember.The party politics is about the backs of entrepreneurs, about the backs of animals, because that's what I always stand for, or about the backs of aviation, about the KLM or Schiphol. I am also always looking at national interest, and it is too little done. I have listed a few parties who have been voting against our motions for years continuously, also to do an investigation. At some point, I went to ask, "Okay, if you don't believe me, go check it out and show that I'm right." If you don't, I wouldn't have given up the courage yet, you know, but you suddenly come out in the Christmas scenes and you're gonna do that, you're gonna draw up a franchise code and you're gonna weigh it down... The PvdA has thwarted me for years, but suddenly a female MP from the PvdA comes out here in the church. With all due respect, I find it so sad. I wasn't even mad about it, but I was just disappointed and sad. Why? To be party politics over the back of entrepreneurs. I would like to thank this Secretary of State very much. Apart from the fact that not only good cheese comes from Edam, there are also involved directors, such as this Secretary of State. Apart from debates and discussions, I have said to this Secretary of State a few times: there are entrepreneurs in trouble, you would not... Then it was said: forward everything to my p.a. And then we pick it up. And then it gets picked up, then they listen to carnival entrepreneurs and then they're welcomed to the Ministry. For example, there were also a few franchisees, especially the smaller ones, who seemed to get in the way of this. Then this secretary of state says, "Send them over and we'll talk to them." Look, that's helpful, and then you'll be taken seriously as the highest minister in this country, because that's what we are. Members of parliament are still the highest ministers in existence. We should be taken more seriously, including by the government. I can at least say about this Secretary of State that she has always done so. She used to be a nice MP to work with. That can be said at some point, including from the opposition. We can shoot at the government, but if something good is done, you just have to be able to say it honestly. I'm going to argue like my colleague from the Socialist Party... The Socialist Party and the CDA have very often supported me in calling for us to do something about this. Thank you for that. We need to listen to each other more. I always call Pieter Ommzigt. I will not mention anyone within my own group. Pieter Omtzigt is known as the terrier who bites into everything. He certainly belongs to the top five of the best MPs. But if that boy had been with the PVV-tokkies, he wouldn't have been taken seriously very often and he wouldn't always have been able to succeed, because this is often about party politics. I can't stand it. Really. I believe that we should make more use of the national interest, the interests of entrepreneurs, the people and the homeland, and of animals. I think we should get together more often and we should give each other something, because a Member of Parliament does not just represent his own province or region. They're becoming specialists, too. I'll be here almost 14 years. You're gonna be some kind of specialist on certain files because all you've been doing is doing that. So you're also getting experience. I hope that something will be done about this and that the younger generation will do better, because I often think that cooperation here is really bad. I am very sorry about that, but I think I have said that for the third time now, so I shall leave it at that. My colleague from the Socialist Party said so. I myself once asked for that legal anchoring. I told you, I've filed six motions. Finally, there will be a legal guarantee, a legal anchor, for the interests of franchisees. I hope that the law can be introduced as soon as possible. Then I also have to appeal to both Chambers, not only to the Lower House, but also to the Upper Chamber, because often everything goes as fast as thick shit through a funnel. I hope this all goes a little faster now. At least we have our support. After all, we have been asking for it for years. This is one of the few joyful days, Madam President. You can't tap a lot here in the room. Sometimes it does, and then it gives a lot of satisfaction. Then you think: never give up and always keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u31	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u32	The keeper wins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u33	Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u34	A blessed evening further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Graus. You spoke for seven minutes. I think that's very good. Let us see if Mr Moorlag can also speak a few minutes less. Oh, wait, I skipped you, Mrs. Palland! Then I'll see if you'll be able to finish in a few minutes. But you just have speaking time, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u38	Mr. Chairman. Deeply socialist or liberal, let's be clear: it was Abraham Kuyper, who stood up for the little luyden, the artisans and the middlemen. And, of course, in the more recent times, Mr Graus; I would also like to give him that. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's opinion on this bill states: "In the franchise relationship, the franchisee naturally has a certain dominance over the franchisee. This is because the franchisee is relatively dependent on the franchisee, because the franchisee decides on the formula. In practice, it appears that the way the franchisee exerts its preponderance can lead to unreasonable and undesirable situations for the franchisee. Self-regulation has not led to a change in this practice. That is why legislation has been decided." Mr. Chairman. As far as we're concerned, it's a beautiful day. The CDA welcomes this bill from the Secretary of State. It gives concrete expression to the rights and obligations of franchisees and franchisees, both before and during a collaboration. For a long time, efforts have been made to leave it to the sector itself and to reach mutually agreed solutions to bottlenecks, such as the non-committality of prior information, the excessive use of unilateral change clauses and the sharing of costs and benefits and opportunities and risks. In principle, self-regulation is always preferable as far as the CDA is concerned. What society itself can do should not be taken over. But in this case ten years of talking did not yield any results or any agreement. Then The Hague is up. The Secretary of State picked up the glove. The scope of this bill is wide and wide, because the diversity of formulas is enormous in practice. From international retail chains to collection agencies, from temporary agency to car repair companies, franchise formulas can be found in almost every sector. It has already been referred to: around 920 formulas are operated in 34,000 franchise locations with 370,000 employees in our country. Together they have about 38 billion in turnover. A serious business. This bill invites franchisees and contractors to make agreements and lays down what agreements are made. A balance is struck in the relations between the parties; fair entrepreneurship by working together. That appeals to the CDA. It is a good thing that the bill adds the franchise agreement to the Civil Code and establishes that parties inform each other well in advance before they interact, that there is a goodwill arrangement, that the scope of the non-compete clause has been determined and that prior agreements are made on how to reach agreement on subjects. But it is also good that there is some freedom to implement this together, for example through agreed amounts, precisely because of the diversity in formulas and circumstances. In doing so, it is important that the framework should be established and that there should be no deviation from it to the detriment of the franchisees. As far as we are concerned, a balance has been found. What may be left with questions is that the legislative proposal is based on the assumption that it is always the franchisee who is considered vulnerable and should be protected. I think this is certainly the case in many cases. However, there are also formulas in which franchisees have a strong position, with large turnovers of millions or billions and a large staff or execution organisation, where the franchisee is a smaller organisation that only has the formula and protects it and keeps it future-proof. Can the Secretary of State explain what it means for the balance sheet in the bill if the franchisee is the smaller party that would like to innovate and keep up with the time, but must have the consent of larger franchisees? We have also included questions about the extraterritorial operation of the legislative proposal, including in the report. After all, there is quite a number of internationally operating franchisees. It is good and logical that this bill applies to all franchisees and franchisees, active and based here in the Netherlands, even if the franchisee is located abroad. This also makes a flight abroad unattractive or prevent. However, we find the effect on franchise formulas in which the franchisee is based in the Netherlands, but franchisees are also outside the Netherlands, complicated. The franchisee then has to deal with local legislation of the franchisee's country of establishment and this may conflict. With large internationally operating formulas, for example, we do not seem to be able to organise global agreement on adjustments to the formula. How does the Secretary of State view this? The answer to our questions on this subject indicated that there is no estimate of the effects of this extraterritorial operation and the Secretary of State discussed the feasibility of master franchise setups in international context. But there is not always a master franchise setup. It is not clear to us why this extraterritorial effect would be necessary by means of mandatory law. We can imagine that, in order to avoid conflicting legal rules in other countries and to keep the rules workable, we leave room for franchisees and franchisees established abroad to make agreements, also to keep our locational environment attractive. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this point. Then Article 918 of the law: the delegation clause. The legislative proposal allows for the establishment of detailed rules at AMvB on the content and form of information obligations for franchisees and contractors. The Council of State is critical of this and considered deleting it because it is obvious that the content will initially be filled out by the judge on the basis of specific cases. Can the Secretary of State state state why it nevertheless insists on the delegation clause and considers that the proposal in its present form is adequate? Finally, the entry into force and the transitional period. There has been talk of regulation and legislation in the sector for a very long time. The CDA welcomes the bill and the balance sheet found in it by the Secretary of State. The intended date for entry into force is 1 January next year. That's soon. Does the intervening period provide sufficient time to adapt contracts, also given the diversity and scope of franchise formulas mentioned above in the Netherlands? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u40	Still a question about that restriction to the Dutch territory. It is the case in many areas for every multinational company that you are dealing with conflicting jurisdictions. To say in advance that in this case you do not have to take that into account at all, I think that is quite a far-reaching step. Why not leave that to those companies themselves, as we do in many other areas? There are so many variants in organisational structures that it is not necessarily necessary to draw such a hard line at this point. It may, for some people in particular, give rise to undesirable behaviour from the point of view of the locational climate. That's what I'm worried about anyway. I am not convinced and I do not fully understand what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u41	I thought I might be able to find your support for this, also in view of the questions that your party has also put to the note, including how it works internationally. You ask why we do not leave it to the entrepreneurs themselves. That is exactly what we are doing with the amendment. We'll leave them free. We say that this law is the basis and that this law applies to anyone who wants to be active here, but when it is complicated, we make an exception to that mandatory legal provision. You also say that you attach great importance to the evaluation clause because we are doing new things here and this may have some unexpected twists and turns. As far as we are concerned, the parties, entrepreneurs, can choose to make different agreements on this matter when it comes to parties abroad. You may say that this is to the detriment of the franchisee established somewhere in South Africa, Korea or the United States. That may be the case, but it is also up to that country to make legislation and regulations applicable. That can also be mandatory legislation. It always comes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u42	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the praise is sounded over Abraham Kuyper, I cannot fail to contradict that. He is known as the hero of the small luyden, but in the circles of the Socialists and Social Democrats Kuyper is well known for the laws he passed after the railway strike of 1903. As a result, civil servants were banned from stopping. That injustice was, I believe, corrected only in the 1980s. While I'm at it... Mr Aartsen said: a compliment to capitalism. He embraces capitalism. I would like to remind him that well regulated and therefore not deregulated societies, and societies based on the Rhineland model and not purely on the capitalist model, create more prosperity and well-being for their people than states that operate purely capitalist. I am fortunate that I live in a country where the Rhineland model has meaning and that I do not live in a purely capitalist system as we see it on the other side of the ocean. We also see what socio-economic devastations are causing a corona crisis there. Mr. Chairman. I've highlighted the differences, but we're about to fall sobbing into each other's arms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u44	That's what I want to see!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u45	You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u46	Oh, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u47	Symbolic, because the PvdA also supports this law. This law strengthens the position of franchisees. I would also like to say a few atonement words in the direction of Mr Graus, because my colleague, Mei Li Vos, has also worked in the past to strengthen the position of franchisees. I understand that she may have entered Mr Graus's irritation zone at the time, but I hope to be able to reconcile with Mr Graus today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u48	It's a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u49	I didn't want to mention the name, but she was the one... Mr Moorlag brings it up himself. I never mention the name of someone who can't defend himself. But she was the one who frustrated all six motions for legal anchoring. All of them! Then she quickly came out in the Christmastreces with: we are in favour of legal anchoring. But then those six motions of mine had already been rejected and I had already been ridiculed three times by a minister. Again, I don't like you there... I also always find it difficult when a ruler is caught on something that a predecessor has done, so let's just drop it. But here's what's important: let's do better in the future. Then I'm already satisfied, because this isn't necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u50	Is it gonna be okay between you and the PvdA at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u51	Yes, I do. I recently went to Berlin with Mr Moorlag. I'm getting along pretty well with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u52	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u53	And also with Mr Van der Lee. It's in my chamber football team.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u54	Yeah, he complimented you, too, but you were gone for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u55	I often have trouble with this. I went to a music party with Mr. Aartsen once. That's a hell of a Brabant Burgundy. But here, when we're in the ring, we should be able to just box. And out there, you're just being neat. Like boxers: they beat each other all the way to hell, but outside the ring they are neat to each other. That's how it's gotta be. This is the ring. This is where we have to be able to say everything to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u56	While you're telling me who you've been doing what you've been doing, do you have any more secrets you'd like to tell us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u57	Yeah, I'm gonna collect it someday, because I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u58	I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u59	I've been going to 15 years and pretty good things have happened. I think that might be worthy of a document once, indeed. I'll think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u60	I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u61	Memoirs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u62	I share Mr Graus' view. That's what we called it in the union: it's sometimes with the bottle on the table and sometimes with the fist on the table. When better times come, I would like to talk to Mr Graus once again with the bottle on the table about the things that have hurt him deeply. Back to the law, Chairman. This strengthens...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u63	Mr Graus has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u64	This is the last thing I want to say about it: it's not about me. Then you get that "grausen" that GroenLinks always talks about. I'm not a franchisee, and I'm never gonna be a franchisee. Never. I've had plenty of chances. But that's why I never did it. The point is that we're here in front of those entrepreneurs, for people. Or animals. This isn't my interest. The importance of me doesn't count. I hope that's how you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u65	But let there be no misunderstanding about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u66	Period. Please continue. Otherwise, Mr Graus will speak to you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u67	Let there be no misunderstanding about that. The PvdA stands up for people in society who have less power. This is the case with franchisees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u69	The fact that their position is strengthened is just good. The fact that the Secretary of State did not come up directly with a law is, in a sense, also fair, because a code of conduct has been worked on for a very long time. It didn't come into being at the end of the day. Then I think there's a title for the government to regulate. That's what's happening now. One of the speakers said that the relationship between franchisees and franchisees was getting sharper. I hope that these relations will improve after this law has been passed. I don't know if the Secretary of State will see any chance of achieving that. Mr Van der Lee has proposed an amendment to evaluate the law over time. That's what I'm here for. I think the deadline is a little short. I would suggest to Mr Van der Lee that he do so, for example, by the end of the next cabinet period; then you are talking about a period of four years. This period could also be used to see whether the effects of the law could be monitored jointly with the franchisees and the franchisees during that period. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she is prepared to do so, in order to promote cooperation between the parties. Mr. Chairman. When I talk about the position of franchisees, I would like to make a point about the topicality of this legal procedure. The Secretary of State, parties and landlords and tenants of shopping premises have been working to see if, in view of the destructive effects of the corona crisis, a rental break can be achieved. There are also some agreements made between landlords and tenants. But I would very much appreciate it if the Secretary of State would make an effort to cooperate with that part of the real estate market that is not yet cooperating. If this happens, we will not only strengthen the position of franchisees with this law, but we will also be able to do something to alleviate the current need of franchisees. It is good to see that we have broad consensus on this law here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u70	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Actually, I'd like to make the proposal to suspend for dinner until 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u71	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to all the spokesmen for the nice words, let me put it this way, and also the agreeing words about this bill, a bill that deals with fair enterprise and better cooperation. The question of whether or not it is socialist or liberal or of the small luyden is, of course, a good question. But as far as I'm concerned, it's about honest enterprise and better cooperation. Unfortunately, I dare to say that this is a subject that has only become more relevant in recent months. You also have franchisees in care. You might think things have been getting better there lately, but there are also the discussions that lead to this bill. Nothing to the detriment of the franchise formulas where things are going well, but what you hear a lot in discussions is that there is nevertheless a power imbalance between franchisees and franchisees. In all the questions that have been asked and in all the discussions that are being held on this issue, it is important to realize that the franchisee has the ownership of the franchise formula and is also the one that allows another to use that franchise formula. The franchiser almost always holds the pen of the franchise agreement. That means you have a step ahead of franchisees. But, as I said, this bill is about more honest entrepreneurship and better cooperation. That is what this bill is about. Some of you have also said that it is a wonderful way of working together and that it is very important for the Dutch economy. A number of figures have also been mentioned here. And I didn't belong to any figures I didn't recognize. Mr. Chairman. In view of all the discussions that have been going on on this for years and the newspaper reports on this subject, it is necessary to take action to strengthen the position of the franchisee and thereby keep this form of business attractive to entrepreneurs and to make it attractive in some situations. It is my belief that entrepreneurs should be given a fair chance to build something, and this includes good, clear and above all fair agreements. I would like to comment briefly on the road that has been taken. This law fills a part of the coalition agreement. It has been agreed that the position in the precompetitive phase will be strengthened. A few months after this cabinet took office, I informed the Chamber of what four aspects I consider crucial: the pre-contractual exchange of information, the interim amendment of an ongoing franchise agreement, the termination of franchise cooperation and the consultation between franchisees and franchisees. With those four points in mind, a draft legislative proposal has been written. The following internet consultation was extensively responded to; there were 572 responses. More than two thirds of them, 400, were supported by or on behalf of franchisees. Constructive critical reactions from a few dozen expert service providers have contributed, as far as I am concerned, to an optimal formulation of the impact. The critical reactions of franchisees showed that they were concerned about the impact of the proposal on their earning model and, above all, on the scope for innovation. These concerns have been further deepened in bilateral talks and are addressed where necessary in the legislative proposal. How do you balance that relationship between franchisees and franchisees? The core is Article 912: franchisee and franchisee must behave towards each other as a good franchisee and a good franchisee. The proposal lays down rules on the provision of information prior to the conclusion of the agreement. A four-week period is introduced to study a franchise agreement offered without undue pressure. This applies only to the first agreement between the same parties. That gives you time, so that you can think quietly and businessly and not get stuck in a rush of enthusiasm with a contract that you later think: was that wise? The draft law lays down rules for the exchange of information during cooperation. In this way, you must not withhold information that you should be able to understand in all reasonableness that it is of interest to your fellow party. You can't rob your franchisee at the very last minute with a unilateral adjustment. You must also be transparent about the use of the funds you collect from your franchisees for a particular purpose. On two points, the law prescribes something about the content of the agreement. You have to agree with each other what you're going to do at the end of the collaboration, the goodwill, in case the franchisee takes over the franchisee's business. If there is goodwill to be attributed to the franchisee, it must also be reimbursed. There are also substantive limits to non-competition provisions. Finally, rules are laid down for consultation and agreement in cooperation. The franchisee may have certain plans which do not require a modification of the franchise agreement, as it is already part of the agreement. The franchisee may extend from his franchisee that he makes investments or incurs costs for this purpose. The franchisee's actions may also lead to a loss of revenue from his franchisee. In these cases, in certain situations, the franchisee needs the agreement of the franchisee to carry out those plans. Such consent is only necessary if the financial impact for the franchisee exceeds a certain threshold. That threshold should be laid down in the Agreement. If the franchiser crosses the threshold, he needs approval. Mr. Chairman. I have sometimes called it "the bill of good behavior": neat, simple and honest dealing with each other. This is reflected in the opinions on the proposal. The Justice Council expects this law to shift the force field somewhat, but does not foresee a structural increase in court cases. The Council of State also gave a favourable opinion. Nevertheless, I have noticed that franchisees are concerned about this law. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that this law is not a rigid straitjacket, but rather allows parties to shape and content cooperation, and to innovate in consultation with each other. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this bill has the effect of restoring balance. For example, we help over 30,000 companies with 375 000 employees to undertake together and in a fair manner. This will ensure that this particular way of economic cooperation is maintained, because that is what it is, President-in-Office, remains attractive to all entrepreneurs who are now in it, but certainly also to new entrepreneurs. That will ultimately benefit all of us. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked to me. I'm gonna walk by now. The first question concerns the entry into force. Mr Alkaya asked me: how soon can this law enter into force? It is, of course, up to the States-General to deal with this quickly and quickly, but I am aiming for 1 January. The CDA group asked me: is that enough time? Well, obviously, this bill didn't fall on us yesterday. In this sense, everyone has already been able to look into it. But it is good to realize that this law is primarily about behavioral standards, or at least about that part that will enter into force equally. Behave nicely and have a conversation with each other, should always be. This law confirms that. For real changes to agreements there is a two-year transitional period, so I think that is a good thing to do. Mr Alkaya asked me whether this bill makes franchise formulas more attractive or not more attractive. I think it's getting more attractive. In countries where franchise legislation is in force, you can also see that the franchise landscape is going well. So I think this law is going to lead to more clarity about how you do this with each other. As far as I am concerned, this improves the attractiveness of the model. Mr. Chairman. There were also a number of questions about the definition of the franchise formula. For example, Mr Van der Lee asked me whether the automotive is covered by the franchise formula or even online platforms. It is not without reason that we have included a comprehensive definition clause in the first article that will soon be included in Title 16 of Book 7 of the Civil Code. How does that work in practice? When there is a discussion about whether we have a franchise agreement here or something else, a judge will always look at the different parts of the legal provision to determine whether something is a franchise agreement and whether these rules will apply to the agreement in question. The title you put above it doesn't matter. A judge will simply see what he or she has or is standing in front of him and whether that meets that definition. It is not for me to say here what a franchise agreement is. If I ever look through my hair at Amazon, to mention a platform, I think: well, I don't think that's a franchise agreement. When I look at some automotive companies, I think: well, it could be a franchise formula. The fact is that I don't know exactly what the content of the agreements are. That has to be tested in the end. But as with almost everything in life: what runs like a duck and makes sound like a duck, is also often a duck. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked by the GroenLinks and CDA groups whether there are limits to the size of franchisees, because sometimes you have very large franchisees. As I said in my introduction, there are several variations in the franchise landscape. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is not in any legislative proposal, which is not wise to include limits in the sense of 'if you have so much turnover, then you are not covered by this law', if only because turnover is fluctuating, so when and when? It is essential to realize each time that there is a power inequality embedded in the fact that you, as a franchisee, have the property and thus the right of access to the formula. That in itself is a reason to include these rules in this law in order to correct that natural imbalance where it is necessary. Mr. Chairman. The SP group and the VVD group asked me a precise question about the obligation to investigate. Then you can see that at least these two worlds of socialism and capitalism come together when it comes to questions about the obligation of research and transparency. The question was asked to me: how far does the research obligation of a franchisee go? This, of course, depends on the circumstances. If you are presented with a contract and there are some vague promises of beautiful conversion without any factual justification, then you cannot sit back as a potential franchisee. You can expect a franchisee to look into that and ask questions about it. If you do not do so and then reject that you are not well informed, then I do not think you are acting correctly. The law aims to protect the franchisee, but not to remove the responsibility entirely from this person. Failure to comply with that obligation is ultimately at the expense and risk of the franchisee himself. They also asked how to provide sufficient information as a starting franchiser. If you look at the definition of franchise formula, it is always about a tried and tested concept, resulting from the experience of the franchiser himself. He will always have to start his own formula or in another way to see if it is effective. Only then can you provide that information. That's one. Two: if you don't have information, if you don't have data, you can't give it. In turn, the franchisee's obligation to investigate whether he really needs that information is a matter for his own discretion and whether it is true that that information is not available. So you always come back to the fact that this law has standards of conduct and information obligations, but that it is always according to the circumstances of the case, the nature of the franchise formula and the size of the franchisee and the franchisee, how to fulfil the different obligations laid down in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u73	Mr Alkaya and then Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u74	As far as I can remember, the only motions I tabled with the VVD, with Mrs Becker and Mr Van der Linde, were about small businesses and the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. At that point, we find each other regularly. That is why it is so important that we now say for the history of law that this can create a tension. In practice, such a small entrepreneur is often taken by the franchisee. Then things are explained and information is given. There's often a dependency position. And now we are saying that we expect this small entrepreneur not only to look at what he gets from the franchisee, but that he also, for example, questions other entrepreneurs and perhaps engages an external consultant and the like. My question to the Secretary of State is: how is she going to inform small businesses about this? Would he like to investigate how that is best? Does it have to go through the Chamber of Commerce? Is it going through a website? What do we expect small businesses to fulfil this obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u75	To begin with, you always talk about an entrepreneur. You may require him to behave as such. This means that he has to hire expertise if he lacks it himself and that he contacts an industry organisation and, if possible, becomes a member of it, although that is of course up to the entrepreneur himself. Also on the website of the Chamber of Commerce you can always get all kinds of information. I am responsible for the Chamber of Commerce and we will ensure that information about this law, when it is adopted, becomes available with confidence. But it's not like when this law is there you can say, okay, now I'm protected and so there's no responsibility for myself. Of that I say: no, that is expressly not the issue. This law states that you must be well informed and that you also have a duty to get all the information out of the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u76	Same thing. In the note following the report, the Cabinet states that in principle there are two matters covered by the obligation to investigate, namely the examination of the information before us and the active questioning of any missing information. A third element, which was my question and, in my opinion, was the question of hiring external advice under certain circumstances. That, of course, listens rather closely. I'm very curious under what circumstances that is. I just heard the Secretary of State say that she basically assumes that an entrepreneur does that if he doesn't have it. A specific question to the cabinet: if the conclusion is that an entrepreneur does not have that information or does not have that expertise, is it the case that it falls under the research obligation that he obtains external advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u77	To this question you can never give a definitive answer for all situations. It's just that I'm gonna say it again, depending on the circumstances of the case. What formula are we talking about? How big and experienced are you as a franchisee? In addition, a franchisee must provide the right information and complete information. So again, here are the circumstances of the case. On the one hand, you have a duty, as also stated in the law, to provide the franchisee with information. That must be correct information and as complete information as possible. Next, the target franchisee should check whether something is missing and make an assessment for himself: can I make a proper assessment for myself here? In that sense, this is not a mathematical formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u78	That is why I specifically ask for this, because the provisions of the law are so important, the provisions under which specific circumstances someone should or should not hire external advice. Because if you don't know that, then it's sailing on sight and then you don't know if you've done it right or not. I am very curious to know under what circumstances specific external advice should be sought, otherwise you will still enter a legal swamp. I think we are always trying to avoid that with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u79	That assumes that there are no legal procedures now. There are now, of course, many. Especially when this law comes into force, you may get some statements about it in a while, I imagine; you certainly don't. I always say, if everyone were to behave properly, you might not need laws and judges. This kind of conflict always depends on the situation. If you become a franchisee in an industry in which you have never been active, I can imagine that you are looking for external information. But maybe you can find it with your future industry organization. Maybe if you're not very good at it yourself, you need someone to see if the information you get matches the formula you want to do or the place you're in. Every time a franchisee has to provide accurate and complete information. In any case, what this law does is clearly define the information to be given. There is a duty on the franchisee to investigate it. In the end, this must lead everyone to understand what they are getting into, together with the expectations that are real and can then be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The groups of GroenLinks and the VVD still asked about the right of assent. This is about the situation where those thresholds need to be set. Mr Aartsen asked if you could find yourself in a situation where a franchisee thinks: you know what, I do not agree, because then the franchisee must at least ask my permission for any change with a financial consequence. A franchisee also has to behave like a good franchisee. It is in the interests of a franchisee that innovations can also take place in a formula, because a formula can eventually become stronger. In addition, as a good franchisee, you are always in conversation with your franchisee. If the situation arises that a franchisee has made a number of real proposals on which a franchisee says "I am not interested because I have a different purpose," I imagine that such a franchisee will go to court at some point. Then the court will consider what proposals have been made, whether they are reasonable and fair, and whether a franchisee could say no to them. I believe that this situation will then arise. But this also applies: talk to each other and see how you can shape that formula with each other in a proper way. In doing so, franchisees and entrepreneurs have a similar interest in keeping the formula attractive. We will certainly look into this in the evaluation. The fraction of the VVD asked me whether the comparison with a good tenant or a good employee is appropriate in a law dealing with the relationship between entrepreneurs. Those examples were chosen because it was in that part of the discussion in the note following the report on open standards. Our law has many open standards. Therefore, the comparison with a good tenant and a good employee has been made. You also have something like a good tenant. It's in the Law of Pity. Pachters are often agricultural entrepreneurs. They do not always rent from another entrepreneur, but they also contain those open standards. I was asked whether I think it would be a good idea to have discussions between franchisees and franchisees. Yeah, absolutely. I do not mean in the situation of an individual franchisee and an individual franchisee, but between its domes. I think it is very good to do that and to look at each other: how does this law work out and are we on the right path together? I have another question from the CDA Group about the delegation clause. The Council of State recommended the possibility of specifying the articles in the field of information through general administrative measures. I didn't choose that. We are dealing with a new legal regime that will be applied by the courts. This could provide new guidance on information obligations. It is good for equality of law, if those rulings give rise to them and to make clear to everyone what they include, so that they can be included in a general measure of governance to prevent a repetition of legal proceedings. That general measure of governance does not envisage new obligations; it looks at the clarification or clarification of existing obligations. Mr. Chairman. I think I have the last question, which was asked by Mr Moorlag on rental prices. Agreements have been made between the parties in the retail trade. They're recent. Parties themselves have also called on those who are not yet participating to make agreements on the suspension of rents. If you are in a sector where blows are taking place and your current tenant may be your last tenant for the next or longer period of time, it is very wise to consult with each other about this. Recently, there has been a ruling in the AB InBev case, in which the judge even ruled that the adjustment of the rent is the intention, given the situation we are all in now. This means that an existing rental agreement is put aside for a moment, because there was no solution in the normal consultation procedure. With regard to Mr Aartsen, who was particularly concerned about the openness of standards in this law, I say again that it is even possible in the Civil Code for a judge to dismiss existing leases on the basis of reasonableness and fairness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u82	A brief question, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u83	The Secretary of State takes the words out of my mouth, because reasonableness and fairness is indeed an escape. But my question was more as to whether the Secretary of State sees opportunities to influence landlords' behaviour with the right degree of coulance and whether, when she sees these opportunities, she wants to use them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u84	You can now see in practice that where parties do not come to new agreements together at this difficult time, the existing agreements in a lease are dismissed by a judge. So I don't think I need to act anymore, except at the right moments, like here tonight, I have to say that it's wise to talk to your tenant or to go into your tenant's requests to do something about the rent, because it might be your last tenant if things go wrong there. Even the judge has now ruled on that, so I think all the chess pieces are in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u85	I hope shopkeepers don't have to make those charges for a lawyer. If the Secretary of State still crosses the path with landlords, as far as I'm concerned, she has the mandate to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u86	Well, Mr. Chairman, it's delicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u87	There were two amendments, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u88	Yeah, but I don't have it here for me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u89	Oh, that's a little weird. Have they been filed before? It is, isn't it? Right? Do we have it here? How do we deal with that? Are we gonna do that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u90	I do know the broad lines of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u91	Oh, then it's okay. I have here an amendment by Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Bromet. Do you know anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u92	I know about it, but I don't have the exact text in front of me. Shall I give it a shot, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u94	I believe that the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Bromet introduces an evaluation clause into the law, and I found the deadline short. You must imagine that two articles of this law will enter into force only two years after the law has entered into force. Then you must have worked with the law for at least three years for a good evaluation. I believe that the deadline chosen by Mr Van der Lee in his amendment was short. So the request to Mr Van der Lee is whether he wishes to extend that deadline. If he is prepared to do so in accordance with the words I have just spoken, I can give a ruling to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u95	Then you know what the amendment says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u96	Yeah, basically, Mr. Chairman. From home, I always want the lyrics for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u97	That's always handy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u98	It is indeed a rather simple amendment. It's true what the Secretary of State says. I just learned from Mr Moorlag that you can negotiate with the fist on the table and with the bottle on the table. So with the bottle on the table, I am prepared to set the deadline so that the transitional period of two years is taken into account and on top of that three years in the duration of the law. Then you've got five years together. Well, then you really should be able to make a good judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u99	I'm looking at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u100	Without a bottle and without a fist, we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u101	Well, well, well. So judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u102	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u103	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u104	If I get the second one... Or the first one was, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u105	From Mrs Palland and Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u106	I just didn't have the amendment in front of me, Mr President. Could I have the text of the amendment? I'm sure Mrs. Palland has it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u107	We're gonna see if we can make that happen. It'll be taken care of. Then I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u108	Are we gonna do that in second term, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u110	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u111	I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Otherwise, we'll wait for the amendment. There is a need for a second deadline. Mr. Alkaya? No? Mr. Van der Lee? No, I didn't. Mr. Aartsen does. Then I give the floor to Mr Aartsen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did need a second term. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I have two questions and one motion. My first question concerns the definition of the threshold in that two-year transitional period. The Secretary of State states that she considers this to be the part of good franchise entrepreneurship that is being looked at, but we fear that the fallback option to €0 can be a significant step and can also be an incentive to stretch it. In fact, my question to the Secretary of State is: does it consider it reasonable and fair to take over that terminology from the law, that after a number of discussions and a number of good proposals we should be able to reach an agreement in two years? To reach a threshold with each other, you don't have to take years, do you? So does she consider it realistic, reasonable and fair to come back to that in two years' time? I would like to ask a specific question about one sentence in the answer given by the Secretary of State, who kind of triggered me. She said that the franchiser should also be transparent about the use of funds he raises for a particular purpose. I hope it's only about specific goals, for example for a joint investment etc., and that she didn't mean the franchisee an sich, because then you're gonna give away business data and you have to say what you're gonna spend your income on. That does not seem to me to be entirely the intention in the context of trade secrets. I have one motion on the matter of the conciliation body. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Franchise Bill contains a number of open standards;]] [[having noted that in the note following the report, the Cabinet recommends model arrangements between representatives of franchisees and contractors;]] [[Whereas it is important that franchisees and franchisees reach agreement or model agreements on these open standards as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas, given the diversity of franchisees and franchisees, a neutral consultative body can assist in this;]] [[calls on the Government to bring together representatives of franchisers and franchisees in a periodic consultation body and to encourage them to come up with model agreements and agreements on the implementation of the Open Standards of the franchise Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35392-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u113	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been put to me, a motion has been tabled and I have another amendment to assess. Mr Aartsen of the VVD Group asked me whether the responsibility to be given by the franchiser for the use of certain financial contributions also applies to the fee. The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u115	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u116	Yeah, short but powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u117	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u118	That's what you asked, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u120	It's always like that. If it ever works...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u121	With you, that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u122	...it's exactly what the chairman asked. It's always like that. Mr Aartsen once again asked whether if two or three times a proposal has been made by a franchisee to a franchisee with regard to the threshold, it would be reasonable and fair to agree. I made it popular for a while. I can't say yes to that. Again, that really depends on the circumstances of the case, the formula you are talking about, the proposal that has been made. That's ultimately up to a judge. But this also applies: good franchise distribution and good franchise entrepreneurship mean that you have to make real proposals to each other. It also means that if you want to make a change with financial consequences, it may be very good to just start talking to the franchisee. "What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of a huge loss of revenue?" See if you can make any arrangements about that. Or if you want to make a change in which you get massive resistance from a franchisee, you can first try it as a kind of pilot elsewhere to prove your thesis that this benefits the formula in practice. Mr. Chairman. Mr Aartsen has tabled a motion for a resolution, that is to say, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aartsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and on behalf It encourages them to develop model agreements and model agreements for the implementation of the open standards laid down in the franchise law. In the end, of course, it is always up to a judge to assess whether it has been properly completed in that particular case. But a conversation as suggested here always helps, so I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. However, I would like to make the point that where the government is asked to bring together franchisers and franchisees, I do not, of course, have them on a string. Of course, I'm willing to help them have that conversation with each other. I see Mr Aartsen making a generous gesture that it is meant to be. So the verdict on that motion is up to the Chamber. I have an amendment tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Aartsen. In short, it is intended that in the event that a franchisee has franchisees outside the Dutch territory which have opted for Dutch law, the franchisee law for those franchisees abroad is declared inapplicable. That is a choice that has absolutely nothing to say for it, so I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u123	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-28.u124	We will vote on the bill, the amendments and one motion next Tuesday. I thank the messengers, the report service and the editors, the clerks and the people who have followed this debate.
