ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to Mrs Kröger's question on behalf of GroenLinks to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, whom I welcome. The question is about the research into the added value of Lelystad Airport. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The first day of the political year, and again there is noise at the headache file Lelystad Airport. Because without any sense of reality, this cabinet will continue to deploy at a new airport for 45,000 holiday flights. Madness in the current climate crisis and totally unnecessary when you look at market developments in aviation. But the cabinet is continuing. Lelystad Airport must open as landing for Schiphol. Only, this is based on scarcity at Schiphol Airport. And of course there isn't any. Corona has drastically reduced the demand for flying. Schiphol expects it will take until 2024 for Schiphol to reach the old level. And it's probably never gonna come to that, because meanwhile, the need to apply high standards to nitrogen, CO and noise is too great. Only yesterday, 60 large employers, including the Ministry of IenW itself, announced that they wanted to continue to fly less. The Chamber was clear: no autonomous, uncontrolled growth of all kinds of price fighters at Lelystad Airport. That was the Laçin motion. The Minister has commissioned an investigation to prove that the traffic distribution rule that should regulate the transfer from Schiphol to Lelystad Airport is really going to work. That research is now completely obsolete. That is not just what we say, but also the researchers themselves. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister whether she also recognizes that the investigation of research firm M3 has become obsolete and its consequences. So is there going to be a new investigation now? Are there any additional measures to prevent this autonomous growth, and is Europe allowed to do so? Or is Lelystad Airport finally going off the track?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me just say that I am very happy to see you all again at the start of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	These and genes have a slightly browner color, so they've been outside a little bit more. That's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yeah, for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mrs Kröger's questions. It is indeed correct that no one will have noticed that aviation has collapsed considerably and that much less is being flown. That's what you really see in the number of flight movements over the last six months. But the current situation is not suddenly the measure of things. We also expect, of course, that all modes of transport will be affected by the fact that, when this crisis is over, mobility will increase again. We do not know exactly how that will occur in aviation. Of course, Mrs Kröger is right that the situation is different now than at the time when the agency did that research, but the policy is that we still expect to promote important networked traffic at Schiphol Airport, which is important for this so-called hub function, and that Lelystad Airport must comply with the departure of holiday flights. Schiphol itself indicates that no slots have yet been returned. There's still scarcity. That's what the lock coordinator says. It is, of course, just a question of long-term policy that we are going through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	The government policy on aviation lacks rationality. I see that again in these answers now. You have the situation now, where the whole aviation sector is actually falling apart, where it is clear that several companies will go bankrupt. As far as the whole playing field is concerned, studies that the Minister himself shared with the Chamber two weeks ago show that in the coming years, between 26% and 84% fewer travellers are expected at Schiphol Airport. Why then continue with an airport which is meant to be a transfer airport, whereas the Chamber has said that there should be no autonomous growth, whereas there is a traffic distribution rule that can only function in the event of scarcity at Schiphol Airport and whereas the researchers themselves now say that the research needed to demonstrate to the Chamber that there would be no autonomous growth is out of date? Is the Minister at least prepared to list to the Chamber which airlines that had slots at Schiphol Airport are already bankrupt? A very short search from my side already yields a number of companies. Of which companies is the market analysis that they go bankrupt? And let me ask M3 another question: how does this traffic distribution rule actually work now that you have a completely different market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	I would like to stress once again that this is a long-term policy. You shouldn't change that suddenly on the basis of the crisis situation we're in right now. I would remind you that the entire Lelystad Airport policy was set up just at the time of the previous crisis. It's a long-term perspective. As a result of Mrs Kröger's rather specific question whether I would like to inform the Chamber of which airlines are flying at Schiphol Airport, I assume that you mean that they have gone bankrupt, I can assure you that I will inform you about this. I do not think it is possible to answer the question of which ones are going to go bankrupt. Moreover, there are of course a lot of companies that fly to Schiphol Airport. I just really can't live up to that. But if mid-term companies go bankrupt... Again, you know about the support package for KLM. In any case, we are aiming to prevent it from going bankrupt. But, of course, I cannot possibly report that to the Chamber from all the airlines flying at Schiphol Airport. Then I'm gonna be some kind of stock market analyst, and I shouldn't be doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	The Minister is now very easily getting over the fact that the aviation sector has had an incredible blow and that all economists say that this is going to have a long-term effect on that sector and many companies are going bankrupt. The whole idea of Lelystad Airport and the operation of the traffic distribution rule are aimed at scarcity at Schiphol Airport, but there is no shortage at Schiphol Airport. That traffic distribution rule, which the Chamber has said should not be autonomous growth, is not going to work, as the researchers themselves say. Surely the burden of proof lies with this minister. If she wants to convince the Chamber and its coalition partners that the traffic distribution rule is going to work, she will have to have it re-examined. This includes the long-term effects on the sector, the fact that companies have already gone bankrupt and the fact that there is still a great deal going on in that sector. I would therefore like to ask the Minister not to get rid of this with an easy answer and really say: I am going to look seriously at the aviation sector and whether this traffic distribution rule, which is the right of the airport to exist for the coalition, is still going to work. M3 says that the current investigation, on which everything is based, is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs Kröger refers to a lot of different things in her speech. She started by saying that I would deal lightly with how the aviation sector has collapsed at the moment. I certainly do not, because I realize every day how many jobs people are at stake there, and I certainly do not take that lightly. I don't do that with KLM, but I don't do that with all those other companies and not with the Schiphol Group. That is really something I am working on every day, precisely to prevent that from leading to a lot of misery in many families. You say about the situation towards the future: there is no shortage. I hear from the Schiphol Group that no slots have yet been returned and that there is still interest. The European waiver, or rule, where you have to fill up 80% of your slots because otherwise you lose them, still applies. So I don't see it happening that airlines would suddenly return slots. In other words, with every kind of mobility I'm dealing with, you see an impact of corona. The same applies to rail, which applies to inland waterway transport, everywhere. We do not know exactly how it will develop in any of the cases. It is therefore wise to simply stick to a long-term policy and not suddenly take the current situation as the measure of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Minister is holding, perhaps not because there is some investigation that shows the need for Lelystad Airport, but because it is a promise in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Then I go to Mr Laçin and I see Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	I hear the Minister saying that the current situation is not the measure of things, but I would like to wake the Minister up, because the situation before corona is no longer the measure of things. We have a new reality, we have a climate crisis and we have a corona crisis, which means fewer flights is a given. That's not a choice anymore. That is already the case, and we must keep it that way in the years to come. That brings me to M3's investigation, which has already been cited by Mrs Kröger. The thrust of the Laçin motion adopted is: no autonomous growth...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	You're not going to sum up everything, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	No, certainly not, Mr. Chairman. That motion stands and yet this minister in Brussels has had a traffic distribution rule reviewed which goes against the wishes of this Chamber. The investigating agency itself says that the investigation is obsolete. So I would like to repeat Mrs Kröger's specific question and I really want a very brief answer from the Minister. Is the Minister going to re-execute this research, which has become obsolete, to see if this scarcity and overflow will change in the years to come? The answer can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u18	Then the shortest answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u20	I can add to that, because it is also a little faint and I understand that Mr Laçin would not want the answer to be so literally short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'd rather have yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yes, I understand. You would probably have been satisfied with a very short answer. No, there is no point in doing that right now, because no one knows how the situation in aviation with regard to the corona crisis is going to develop worldwide. So I'm not gonna do that, because then you're gonna get a repeat of the SEO investigation I recently sent you. It outlines four different scenarios of how aviation could develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to be back here. No one knows how aviation will develop over the next few years. We just heard the minister say that. It will be a long-term process; that is what we have been told. I'd like to ask the Minister two questions. I would like to ask her about her internal logic, and I would like to ask her if she is prepared to work on that trust again, particularly towards the civilian population, civilian groups. But first of all, the internal logic. The Minister said: I am going to investigate how Schiphol's overflowing function is going to develop, and to that end I am ordering an investigative agency, M3. That's what it's researched and comes up to 10% to 20% overflow function. The minister thought that was acceptable, and perhaps the coalition parties too, to open Lelystad Airport. That investigation was crucial. Without the conclusions of that investigation, the Minister could not make that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u25	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u26	Well, the researchers themselves say that the research is no longer valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u27	What do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u28	The investigation is no longer valid. It's not about what I'm saying, it's about these researchers saying that the research is no longer valid. And at the same time, the Minister states, because it makes sense to do new research, that it makes no sense. In other words, the Minister is so inconsistent that the decision on the basis of which she continued with Lelystad Airport can no longer be taken. Does she agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u29	Here too I could give a very brief answer, which Mr Van Raan does feel coming,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u30	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u31	Namely, I don't agree with that. Of course, that research agency says that those percentages are no longer correct, in the current situation, but the current situation is not the measure of things, I repeat. The long-term trend remains the same. No slots have been returned. Airlines are still interested. And perhaps even more importantly, the fundamental choice that we have made with each other, perhaps you would not want to facilitate important, networked, intercontinental traffic at Schiphol Airport and thus move holiday flights to Lelystad, because that is the only way to guarantee that hub function in the future, which is still in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u32	Second question. In short, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u33	Let's talk about the first one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u34	No, really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u35	The minister gets lost in her own words. Again, we are talking about the long-term situation in which no statements can be made about the overflow function of Schiphol. That's what M3 says, and that's what the Minister himself says. It cannot therefore base that decision on the results of that investigation. She's just letting that inconsistency exist. That's very special. You can't do that. Then there is the second question. In view of the decision-making process and all the errors detected in that decision-making process, because this is also an aspect that is different from what we thought, is the Minister prepared to subject all of that decision-making of hers to an impartial external investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u36	I think we've agreed that all the elements necessary for the decision-making around Lelystad Airport will all come together at your Room. I think you're all completely independent. You can then have the debate on this and then we will also have the debate on whether this VVR is good and all the aspects you want to bring in. You also know that the first problem to be solved is the problem of nitrogen. They're working hard on that. If we have everything together, you can discuss every part of the entire file with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u37	No, no, no. Then I will go to Mr Bruins, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u38	In any case, I understand that the dialogue with Mrs Kröger has resulted in us receiving a letter with a response. I look forward to it. Then there's the question I have. Five days ago, the Minister said that the corona crisis has finally made sure that road pricing is off in the Netherlands. Definitely. For aviation, she says that the current situation is not the measure of things. Now I've lost it. Why is it true for road traffic that the current situation is the measure of things and that we are definitely off the road, whereas air traffic seems to be subject to a different situation? Can the Minister bring that logic together for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u39	With regard to Mr Bruins' first point: I did not promise a letter with a response, I promised Mrs Kröger to report to the Chamber which airlines have gone bankrupt, because I have already responded. Then there is the second point. I didn't say very binary with regard to the road pricing either: it's definitely off the track. That is what we have said about the fact that people are forced to work more and more at home. Employers also like it. So it may well be that other solutions are no longer needed. That's how I put it and not stronger than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you. I'm just checking to see if I missed anyone. That is not the case. Then I thank the Minister.
