ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u1	The subject is now the continuation of the examination of the bill 34985, the Nature Environment Act and the letter of the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality dated 6 September 2019 to offer the draft Nature Supplementary Act (34985, letter B).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Klip-Martin on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the last supplement to the Environmental Law, the Supplement to Nature Act. Relieved breathing on the marathon for the environment is not yet mentioned. We will be waiting six months or a year from now, because, Mr President, how long will that take? The Royal Decree, the Royal Decree, on which the actual entry into force of the Environmental Law is dependent. We are discussing this with the government on a parallel track. Maybe it is also good to recall, on behalf of the VVD Group, that we assume that the KB will only be put forward when the legislation, the DSO and the partners are ready or almost ready for it. In the four supplementary laws to the Environment Act, the starting point is that the additions are in principle politically neutral, although there is scope for policy renewal, but there must be an equivalent level of protection, even in the field of legal protection. The VVD wholeheartedly supports these principles, as previously stated. The VVD Group, together with the government, considers it important to ensure a coherent approach to the physical environment in policy, decision-making and regulation through the Environment Act. Nature is an integral and important part of the physical environment. For this reason, the transfer of the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act is logical and desirable. The Advisory Section of the Council of State also recognizes this in its Opinion. The balance between protecting and exploiting must also be closely monitored here. The Government pays great attention to this in the reply and in the further reply to various points and from different angles. Thank you for that, thank you to the responsible directors and the officials involved. In summary, the Nature Supplementary Act does not lead to an increase in the administrative balancing area and also the specific review frameworks for nature values to be protected are not changed. However, the intrinsic value of nature is added to the target definition of the Environmental Act. But what are we talking about at nature values? I quote: It's not the strongest of the species that survives, not the most intelligent that survives, it's the one that's the most adaptable to change. Was signed, Charles Darwin. The Environment Act generates a transition in many areas of thinking and doing in standards according to values. But what are natural values? The first question is: what is nature? In short, nature is the collection of non-living and living nature. That is why nature also fits as well in the physical environment, as it is meant by the Environment Act. In fact, non-living nature creates conditions that affect the quality, read: value, of nature. For example, sufficient clean water in combination with a fertile soil generates a higher natural value. Nature value is also referred to in literature by the combination of three key concepts, namely uniqueness, rarity and diversity. Uniqueness is the degree of occurrence of a species or population, depending on an area type, rarity is the extent to which the occurrence of the number of specimens within a population is threatened, and diversity is the extent to which a number of different species occur. The Habitats Directive in a nutshell. Nature value is therefore highly dependent on non-living nature. In addition to plenty of clean water, healthy soil and clean air, you are talking about hiding places and connections between habitats. It may be that biodiversity is very high, but the natural value is low, because habitats are not interconnected, or because a nature reserve has too small a surface area for a particular species. In this context, the VVD Group has a single question about the possible policy improvement and policy renewal that could in principle also make supplementary laws possible. We are curious whether the government has taken advantage of these opportunities. Mr Recourt did the same. Both the nitrogen pickles, the growing presence of exotics in our environment and the need for climate-adaptive interventions, perhaps I should say: shout out for making our natural areas more robust and therefore more resilient. Does the Supplement Law provide sufficient space for the protection and development of natural values, in accordance with the spirit of the Environment Act, by making promising combinations between nitrogen approach, with the objectives of the NOVI, such as the additional planting of trees, and with the spatial adaptation, necessary by the climate changes and the associated modified weather picture? That is our question. I would like to refer to the recent opinion of the PBL, together with the WUR, last week and also to the report presented yesterday by the Rli to the government. So, where is this secured in the law? In other words, where are the brackets? There is also a relationship with the Brussels objectives. In its letter of 19 February 2020 on the progress of nitrogen problems and measures in the field of nature, the Minister of LNV discussed, among other things, measures in the field of nature recovery and improvement, in relation to the requirements of the Birds and Habitats Directives. This letter refers to the second PAS emergency package of November 2019, which discussed a review of Natura 2000 sites and the Natura 2000 conservation objectives. The above-mentioned letter talks about the necessary space and flexibility in the rules. I quote: 'We have to face up to the fact that there may be places where there is no prospect of sustainable conservation of a particular habitat'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u4	A hot item.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u5	I'm gonna take my glasses off, or I'm not gonna see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u6	Exactly. I wonder if the group of the VVD also has ideas that are not about re-calculating nature reserves, but about adding nature reserves. So are there any reasons to assign areas to nature in the context of nature conservation, rather than just talking about reducing the number of natural areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u7	I didn't include that in my contribution, but I'm sure there are. I think I will return to that in one and a half pages, but the VVD Group is not concerned with reducing Natura 2000 sites or nature reserves, but with positioning them in such a way that you achieve your goals as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u8	But there is no question of the number and size of the project. Just: is it in the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u9	It is not the VVD to do to reduce nature reserves, no, absolutely not. But it's a question of whether they're in such a good place that you also achieve what you originally intended. You know I'm wearing a different hat in everyday life. This is actually the same approach to the Water Framework Directive: not to reduce the objectives, but to see if it is also effective and feasible what you do in every place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u10	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u11	I'm just looking for the right wording for this. To avoid misunderstandings, I know what you do in everyday life. I know what Mrs. Klip does in everyday life. I'll keep practicing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u12	It's going very well!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u13	But I have to say quite frankly that from the VVD I also hear some short-by-the-bunch performances in this area. But when it comes to the First Chamber of the VVD, I hear quite clearly here that the number of natural areas and their size and quality are not under discussion, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u14	I couldn't put it any better. In the note following the report, the Minister mentioned several bilateral talks with the European Commission on the friction between the inflexible regulation of the Birds and Habitats Directives and the natural dynamics. In the further reply, we read in reply 18 that changes may take place within the relevant European frameworks. This seems to be necessary, as the members of the VVD Group. Is there any pace in these talks, and in the possibilities of greater flexibility and application of the rules? However, there are more dilemmas, specifically in this Supplementary Act, which knows the engine block of European targets and EU rules for Natura 2000 sites. I am referring, of course, to the dilemma between sectoral and integral and the dilemma between central and decentralised. The Council of State also pays attention to this. Also in the further reply and in the note on the report, this subject is regularly referred to, following ongoing questions from our fellow groups. The brainbreaker is the concept of "strategic locating." Do we understand that although you have designated a Natura 2000 site, you cannot and do not yet achieve the conservation objectives described, because it can be improved elsewhere? And will this Natura 2000 site, where an environmental permit is then granted for a particular activity, be maintained as such? In other words, should you not remove the Natura 2000 site from its European stamp? I would add specifically: not to reduce the number of Natura 2000 sites, but to position them more effectively. Mr Recourt also referred to this. An important addition to the Nature Protection Act is that municipalities are also obliged to include nature and landscape in their environmental vision and in their environmental plan, entirely in line with the philosophy of the Environment Act. Our question is this: do the Nature Supplementary Act and its instruments ensure sufficient assurance and clarity for the transmission of national and international nature agreements at lower levels of scale? We would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this. Mr. Chairman. The Nature Protection Act has been described as a toolbox for the provinces in order to exercise nature policy properly. For example, regulatory efforts have been made to provide guarantees for nature conservation and nature restoration. The Environmental Act has no prior guarantees, but offers the possibility of taking the right decisions, partly on the basis of participation, while achieving a balance between exploiting and protecting. Sectoral guarantees turn into integral considerations. Maintainability of this balance is certainly very important in this legislative proposal too. Of course, this is reflected in the evaluation, but can the Minister promise that this issue will also be actively monitored? Mr. Chairman. Not everything can go anywhere. This is the title of the report presented on 8 June by the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems, chaired by Mr Remkes. This opinion report leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. According to the advisory board, besides a number of other recommendations, nature needs to be greatly helped to recover from the most acute damage. The VVD Group does not comment on the report in substance, nor on the reaction of the cabinet. This is for a debate on the announced legislative proposal on nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement, after the House of Representatives has considered it. The VVD is satisfied with the response of our joint committee questions on 19 June and satisfied with the government's haste to update the nature legislation, following the Supplementary Track nature. As always, Mr President, the members of my group are very interested in the reaction of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u15	Mrs Klip points out that she believes it is important that the national interests of nature are well protected. A little later she talks about the relationship between protecting and exploiting. My question is: does Mrs Klip consider it important in all cases that these national interests are actually safeguarded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I would like to give the floor to Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People like to live safe and happy. They want to enjoy the quality of the space around them, of the dynamics of the cities. They want to enjoy space, green and peace. They want to undertake. That requires quality of living environment. Social challenges, such as enough homes to live, businesses to work, agricultural and horticultural areas for our food, space for energy transitions, recreational areas and areas with valuable landscapes and nature, call for spatial considerations in our living environment, both national and provincial and local. This concerns the spatial design of the Netherlands, a densely populated country, where every year new Dutch people need a home and where there is a housing shortage for start-ups, middle-incomes and elderly people. The quality of the living environment requires a balance between economic impulses, such as housing, agriculture and estates, and nature and landscape. This ensures that people work, learn, live and relax healthy, safe and happy. Thus, in our opinion, dynamic cities and liveable regions with rural areas develop in harmony with each other. A rural area requires economic carriers, necessary innovations, but also quality investments in nature, landscape and sustainable agriculture. Sustainable agriculture and nature and landscape are intertwined in many places in our country. During the period 1975-2000, we referred to these relationship note areas as the relationship between nature and agriculture. The main structure has emerged from this and then I go with great Since the early 1990s, the Netherlands has been at the forefront of developing the main ecological structure, the backbone of Dutch nature. The core areas, i.e. the reserves, as they were called then, were purchased by the Empire and other governments and administered by land-based organizations, such as Natural Monuments and State Forests. The remaining areas were managed by estate owners, forest owners and farmers, i.e. by private individuals, at a management fee due to the necessary adjustments in their operations. That was the last century. Mr. Chairman. Then, around 2000, Natura 2000, which was to lead, in a European context, to the protection of the reserves, the sensitive areas. For example, the Dutch example of the main ecological structure, through the protection of reserves of those sensitive areas, through Natura 2000, was followed up throughout Europe. The implementation of Natura 2000 in the Netherlands shows a creative thinking that is unprecedented, according to former director of Natural Monuments Frans Evers, a man with a heart for nature. But Frans Evers is worried. He is concerned about the European directives and their translation into the Netherlands, which are supposed to protect nature, but which, through his eyes, are being undermined by their effect. Precisely the necessary entrepreneurs, as well as State Forest Management and Natural Monuments, who also show the entrepreneurial spirit that is needed, become hesitant and see obstacles. Frans Evers advocates the development of European directives through frameworks rather than the elaboration of European directives with technical-ecological precision. Frans Evers warned at the time, around 2010, about a green polarization. He still has that same opinion, by the way. Former senator and former member of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, Prof.Dr.ir. Rudy Rabbinge, joins in. Rabbinge argues that targets should be achieved from frameworks, rather than the technocratisation and jurisdiction of the rural area by the Ministry of LNV. Now there are too many middle rules, through nature's target types. He advocates target regulations, nature goals. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurialism are very important here. Former director Chris Kalder of State Forestry and others, including myself, are also joining these observations. The CDA Group calls for a response from the Minister to this opinion. The CDA's group also thanked the Minister, and with that its advisers, for the appropriate response to our questions in the note following the report received on 9 April 2020. The natural dynamics, which others have already mentioned, and climate change demand that all the functions of nature, landscape and agriculture be developed towards innovation and sustainability. This requires flexibility in relation to natural dynamics. In addition, climate change calls for the actualisation and reorientation of the application of the European directives rather than of the targets. How does the Minister intend to deal with these developments within the framework of the European directives? And how does the Minister see the functioning of the European Council in the evaluation of European directives, also in the light of the rulings of the European Court of Justice? The target system of Natura 2000 has been, in our view, technocratically translated and also justified. In addition, we join Frans Evers, Rabbinge and Kalder. The Minister states that there may be strategic localisation. How does it work at national level? Why can only this be done at national level? Is it not wise to look at this also at European level, given that there are European directives? How can the nature goals system, which was developed in the late 1990s, only have an actualization or a reorientation after twenty years? Can the Minister promise that the reorientation and actualisation, as we have read, will be completed by 2020? And what is that going to mean in the implementation of the management plans at provincial level? What does the actualisation of the nature objectives system mean for dealing with the nitrogen problem? In implementing nature policy, it is important to be clear about conservation objectives, conservation objectives and improvements. This is a three-stage. The Minister gives a very good explanation of this in the third reply. This is important in the implementation of nature policy and also in tackling the nitrogen problem. Can the Minister promise that the evaluation of nature objectives and the evaluation of management plans will define more clearly what conservation objectives, conservation targets and improvements are? It is clear that the selection, designation and targets of Natura 2000 sites... I agree with previous speakers. These are special and vulnerable areas, which are not decentralised. It is a misunderstanding, including in this Chamber, that all of these would have been decentralised. That's not true. It is and remains a responsibility of the Empire. So the Empire has a substantive and a directional function here. It is sometimes said that the Empire has a system function, but in our opinion the Empire has a substantive and a directional function. Can this come back to the NOVI, because we see national interests there again? Natura 2000 targets are of national importance. It is also clear that the boundaries of the National Nature Network, formerly the main ecological structure, are a responsibility of the provinces. Nature policy in the national nature network is already decentralised to the provinces in early 2000. It's not going through this bill. We have also had debates on this. This decentralisation is not regulated by the Nature Supplementary Act. In this respect, the Nature Supplement Act and the Nature Adaptation Act are policy-neutral translations of the Nature Protection Act. I ask the Minister whether the CDA Group sees this correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u20	I have a bit of a general question. I listen and then the question gets to me anyway, so I thought I'd ask him. In the Netherlands, we are in a situation where the quality of nature has been drastically reduced; whether you are looking at a scale of 25 years, 50 years or 100 years. This is the result of all the rules and laws that Mr Rietkerk cited. We have gone through several procedures: the main ecological structure and now we are talking about the Environment Act. I hear from the speakers that there is an insight into and ideas about the vulnerability of nature. But at the same time I hear above all: how can we bear the burden of protecting nature... I fully agree with Mr Rietkerk that this protection is sometimes legal, but sometimes this protection is also the only protection of nature. That's probably why this one's pinching. What is the story of the CDA for the enormous improvement of nature? That's where we need to go, and that's what we need. I still miss that in the story. Where's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u21	I'm not done yet, so I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u22	The story's coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u23	Exactly. By the way, my time is running while I'm not talking. Mr President, will these interruptions be added later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u24	We'll automatically count them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u25	I've had a conversation once before, so let me remind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u26	Mr Rietkerk rightly states that the boundaries of the Nature Network are decentralised to the provinces. That's right. He cites a number of Wageningers, including Mr Rabbinge of Wageningen University. What is Mr Rietkerk's view of the Wageningen University report, which states that the decentralisation of the boundaries of the Dutch Nature Network is a policy weakening? It's the same group of Wageningers who put this. What is Mr Rietkerk's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u27	I don't think you can say this with one or two sentences for the whole of the Netherlands. There are differences between regions and between provinces. I went to see Mr Rabbinge at the Reestdal. That is not a Natura 2000 site. It is a fantastic area, where sustainable and nature-based farming is carried out. He has convinced me that entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activity within the goals can be very well taken up there. The biodiversity in the Natura 2000 sites, which I shall come back to, has improved considerably in the Netherlands in recent years compared to the rest of Europe. The problem lies mainly outside the Natura 2000 sites. Mrs. Kluit just reported this as well. I'll come back to that later. But I have seen that the Netherlands has taken a significant, positive step within the Natura 2000 sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u28	Wageningen University's report is not about Natura 2000, but about Nature Network Netherlands. That's what they're really worried about. That's where they see the policy weakening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u29	I don't know the report. I know, however, that the limits of the national nature network are not quite ready. We're really on our way. It is also logical that, if the limits are not yet ready and the money from the government and the provincial government is not yet available, you will not be able to pay any fees in the management situation, which means that too little pace has been made there. I shall come back to that in a moment, because we also believe that a battle must be struck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u30	Okay, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u31	Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the four intentions of the Environment Act. I am not going to name all four, but I will mention one, namely more space for area-oriented customization and making own considerations. The other targets are clear and we have discussed them before. For the fourth goal, more space for area-oriented customization and making a personal assessment, the CDA group has read clear answers in the last written round. In our view, this is the case, and the Council of State notes that, in our view, it is also right that there should be no comprehensive consideration of the Natura 2000 sites in the environmental plans. This also means that we should not move away with: the site may develop Natura 2000 in terms of objectives. It's one-on-one translated. If the Empire accepts its responsibility, I assume, and that is also a question for the Minister because it is already secured in terms of national Natura 2000 targets, to take that to the NOVI, then we can enforce matters with the current instruments. "We" is then the Empire. Does the CDA group see that correctly? When it comes to balancing the interests of protected nature, we aim especially at the local level. In our view, we should not throw into the eyes of municipalities, local administrators, locally active nature conservationists and farmers by saying, "Ah, a Natura 2000 site? Get back to work there with all the area processes." After ten years, you'll actually feel like you're being steered with a brat, because there's actually no consideration for Natura 2000. There is one for sites outside Natura 2000 in the national nature network. I'll get back to you on that. Then the possibility of salading or nature compensation. Mrs Moonen also mentioned this. In the absence of alternatives, this may be the case for overriding reasons of public interest. As an example, I would like to mention the safeguarding of a public interest as a source of drinking water. I'll come back to that later. I will also come back to two performance dilemmas, because the First Chamber must also look explicitly at the feasibility. Then it's Grevelingen and Wierdene Veld. Outside Natura 2000 sites and within the national nature network, there is scope for consideration, for example in the case of an improvement or expansion target. The Habitats Directive does not set a deadline in this respect. The pace of achievement of the objectives in the management plans.............................................................................................................................................................................. When choosing appropriate measures, this helps to achieve goals in consultation with landowners, nature organisations and local residents. If the CDA Group sees this correctly, I ask the Minister. When will the Minister come up with an effective financial implementation arrangement for achieving nature objectives set at national level? Then the buffers and buffer zones. buffers may be needed around Natura 2000 sites. These buffer zones belong to our idea of falling within the spatial national nature network. The national nature network concerns the sector, i.e. the Minister for Agriculture, and Minister for Regional Development Ollongren. Then you see that in the spatial plans that national nature networks are somewhat wider than exactly limited at plot level. Hence my question to one of you: if the spatial network is wider, you can perfectly strike and also give those buffers a place in it. As far as we are concerned, it would be valuable to apply generously the management fee for those entrepreneurs who then apply it. Then you will have to deal with nature-inclusive agriculture and then with agricultural inclusive nature, the further you will get off the Natura 2000 sites. The CDA Group is asking the Minister if we see that correctly. Salading and compensating nature reserves. In the province of Overijssel, 350 hectares of nature were moved from Twente to the IJsseldelta around 2010, because of the fact that Mrs Klip mentioned: achieving the efficiency and effectiveness of nature goals. The IJssel Delta had, in short, 4 hectares of Natura 2000. That was ineffective and ineffective. There was no carrecite and no stirrup. By extending this to 40 hectares of Natura 2000 and 350 hectares of new nature in an area development process, Mrs Moonen mentioned it already, after five years, you can see the carrekite and the rudder. They've been spotted by the birdwatchers. Great, I say. That's because of the salting and compensation of nature. How does the Minister judge that? Participation and communication. The Nooren motion adopted in this Chamber reflects the considerations and the request for the Environmental and Adaptation Laws relating to the participation of residents and interested parties. On the involvement of residents and stakeholders in the area concerned in the implementation of nature policy, we get information from the areas that there is still a lack of participation and communication. As far as we are concerned, the Empire should change its way of working. Only referring to the General Administrative Law law does not meet the intention and mission of the Nooren motion in our opinion. How do the ministers see that? The Nooren motion also calls for a different attitude of the provinces in the process of extending and adapting management plans. Will the Minister set this up for consultation with the twelve delegates, the twelve provinces? Does the Minister wish to monitor this and inform us properly? The CDA Group also calls for attention to be paid to the process of limiting Natura 2000 sites. The answers show that civil servants, often ecologists, have been involved in provinces and sometimes a portfolio holder. The CDA group requires more care there. She asked the Minister for a decision by the Deputy States with information to the Provincial States, the People's Assembly, to inform them. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Then there's the cost of execution. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the implementation costs are still not sufficiently in sight and it is necessary to answer the question of whether this is feasible and affordable. In the reply, the Minister gives a partial answer to the questions of the CDA Group concerning multiannual investments. The CDA Group asks the Minister to provide a multiannual overview of the necessary costs for the purchase, establishment and management of natural areas in the annual evaluation. We understand that the overview of the answers to the questions was still up to 2027, but this investment extends to 2040 or 2050. When adopting these legislative proposals, can the provinces properly integrate nature into the digital system, in the DSO, and are they financially equipped to do so? Those are questions that predecessors also asked. Can the Minister also comment on the letter from the VNG on behalf of the municipalities stating that they are concerned about the financing of the development of the DSO? Can the additional resources, I thought, 300 million a year, presented to me by Minister Schouten on behalf of the cabinet, also be used to solve bottlenecks specifically related to Natura 2000, so that you get natural recovery, but there will also be development space? Then the Wierden Field and Grevelingen. In addition to the dilemma of affordability, the Wierdense Veld and Grevelingen argue that there are simply conflicting societal goals in the implementation of legislation and policies. It is therefore not a question of conflict between nature and the economy, but of conflicting objectives of public interest, social objectives. The implementation of the policy has been stalling there for years. It is not effective, it is not feasible and it is not affordable. At Wierdene Veld the water extraction of 5 to 8 million cubs plays from Vitens, which is expanded. These social goals, nature and heathland, are competing with water extraction. It just can't be together. This has already been put on the political agenda for years and we have been given a reply again in the third round. Residents and stakeholders still feel a bit from the locker to the wall or sent with a rug in the reed. In the meantime, the Wierden Council has made a ruling. They're choosing water extraction. The province of Overijssel is also heading for water extraction, so the blue scenario. That means now that LNV is up to it. I urge the Minister whether there are any analyses at LNV and at the province of Overijssel that simply indicate the impossibility in the implementation now. If so, how is the minister going to strategically locate? Because the nature goal is not reached there either. Does that mean that the Minister is going to the European Commission? I would like to have a commitment to that on two issues, namely Wierdene Veld and Grevelingen. Then monitoring and monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u32	Mrs. Kluit has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u33	I would like to invite Mr Rietkerk, when we are talking about a specific area, and I know that this is not a very good way of explaining what such a natural development plan, an improvement in quality, would look like in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u34	So I am not talking about the contradiction between a natural interest and an economic interest. It is a conflict of interest in nature, where water is needed, and the social importance of extracting water. You can't do that together. This means that there must be a choice between governments. That then means that if there is such an impossibility, we need to be clear about it, and you cannot do that without the European Commission. Then you need to strategically locate. The Minister has indicated that strategic localisation is possible in the coming years. We ask this for a piece of Grevelingen and the 25 m2 moor in Wierden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u35	I have difficulty with this in principle, but for the nature of the discussion I will go on with it. If we all consider that the number, size and quality of the areas are not under discussion, then it would be so nice if these concrete examples, which are not the only ones here and there, were given a generous indication of what should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u36	That means strategically locating, so that can mean that you realize the goals that need to be achieved there, in another place in the Netherlands. That means you're realizing your national goals. But you have to deal wisely with the impossibility that there is now and for the next twenty years to realize it. The question is also whether the Minister recognizes these analyses. I am therefore asking for the answer to be given to the question of the Minister's sensible handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u37	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u38	Third time. It looks like a repeat, but it's not quite that. Even so, I think: if there is a problem area where this has been known for so long, then the discussion would be greatly helped if it were not only to be named why it is not technically, financially or in terms of acceptance. It should be stated what needs to be done in order to achieve this natural value robustly and with added value. I once did a project on the way out...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u39	No, no, no. Ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u40	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u41	That was your question? Mr. Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u42	I agree with that and I ask the Minister to indicate the process and to indicate what steps need to be taken. In doing so, I have already indicated that you should strategically locate, because of the national nature interest. That is my answer at the moment. Indeed, I am not going into every square metre where it should land. That's not our job. But as it is now in the books and the pieces, it is impossible. This has been a discussion since 2010-2013. So it's not from yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u43	When the Grevelingen is mentioned, I feel appealed to step forward, if only because I've had sleepless nights over the greenery. Do I understand that Mr Rietkerk says: if a species is a problem in a particular area, as in the Grevelingen, then we should not look at the square kilometres, but should we think a little more broadly and ask in Europe if it is possible to bring it back to another place on a slightly different scale? Does Mr Rietkerk say: that should also be possible in that place and then we can continue with the project?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u44	Yes. I then connected strategically locating as a question, because it can be done nationally. That's not in a region or a province. That's a real misunderstanding. You're gonna have to look national. I think the question to the Minister is justified: if the European Commissioner is needed, can you not locate Europe? It is about the importance of the goals and species, including in Europe in the end, and with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u45	I would almost say that that raises a discussion about CO duties and nitrogen. But if we keep it national, you will find me on your path by saying: what is not possible in that particular area, do so in another place, so that the species is properly cared for. Sometimes there are species that you could still place somewhere, but then you have to put them in a cage and feed them every day. If you don't feed them for a day, they'll fall down, so to speak. We shouldn't want that with each other. You are going one step further to Europe, but if that is what you are saying, we can at least find each other at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u46	I think national is already possible. It is politically possible. I mentioned the example in Overijssel, where you now have 40 hectares of new Natura 2000. The rudderhead and the karekite are there now. You didn't have one with four acres, because it's too small. But as far as your question is concerned, we believe that it can be done nationally. My question to the Minister is whether there is a European possibility or not. That's a question. If the Minister responds, I will respond to that in the second term. Then monitoring and monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u47	Mrs. Kluit has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u48	It seems to me that, in line with what was said earlier by Mr Rietkerk, the intention is to maintain the size, the number and the quality of the natural areas in the Netherlands, because we are talking about Dutch legislation here. I'm just inviting you to stay away from all those interests in the rural area, but to embrace them generously. Do I find Mr Rietkerk on my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u49	I'm talking from the point of view of nature. I'm not talking about numbers of areas, because it may well be that you're making a particular area more robust and firmer. There are three areas in the Netherlands. Imagine that there are two areas that are much more robust and that nature really comes to its own, then I could be for that on the basis of the nature goals. I'm not saying that in 20, 30 or 40 cases. I have mentioned two examples; I have no more. Because there are many more discussions, but they go between nature and economics. These are the discussions about nature against nature, or about nature versus drinking water extraction. Of that, I think those goals should be in place, if possible in the Netherlands. I asked the Minister whether you could do so at European level. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u50	Mrs Kluit, another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u51	Do I hear Mr Rietkerk say that this specific relocation of nature reserves or natural values only happens if there is a technical reason why these natural goals cannot be achieved in a specific area, not in the context of those conflicts between economy and nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u52	It is about the incompatibility of social goals, not of an economic purpose, but of social goals, such as drinking water production and nature. At the Grevelingen there is the dynamics of clean water and the plant that then, to put it bluntly, drowns. Those are two societal goals that don't come together. I think we should look each other in the eye and say that we recognise the problem. So that's not a lot of cases. We need to see how, from the point of view of nature objectives, we can first find a solution in the Netherlands. So that would be my question to the Minister. I have the question of what broadens: is that also possible at European level? Maybe you can't do that at all. I'll wait for the answer. If I am satisfied, I will not return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u53	So explicitly not for economic purposes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u54	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u55	I am a little confused by what Mr Rietkerk means by 'nature'. I don't know if he's ever been to Natura 2000. I do. It is beautiful and you can see that the older trees have much more natural value than the younger trees and that there are many more animals living in an older nature reserve than in younger nature areas. So I can't quite see exactly what he means by "movement" of nature reserves in combination with those nature goals that we're so eager to achieve. Isn't that going against each other? So on the one hand, nature improvement, and on the other hand, nature relocation. I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u56	I know many Natura 2000 sites, but also many natural areas, and many nature and landscape areas; and there you already have the gradation. I come from Overijssel, with more than 20 Natura 2000 sites, and I know them all. But that's not the point. It's about you eventually seeing that incompatible targets don't lead to a natural purpose. So if that plant in Grevelingen just never gets there, we can make paper out of it and do a lot of studies on it, but that doesn't come together now and in 40 years either. And the same goes for those 25 moon bogs: if that doesn't happen, you have to place it in another place. And then I look 30 years further and I have said from the IJsseldelta that this has already happened in ten years then you get the nature goals closer if it is compatible and if we do take the good measures for both that area itself in terms of nature restoration, and also for the environment, with downward economic processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u57	If I understand correctly, Mr Rietkerk says: I want to ensure that individual species are maintained, and this can possibly be done at a different location. But we are also dealing with habitat types in the Netherlands and we are dealing with ecosystems, and of course they are linked to this biodiversity crisis. Then how does Mr Rietkerk see it that we protect these ecosystems by moving them? I also see an inconsistency in that, because you are assuming the individual animal, but we are dealing with the coherence of the natural system. And my question is: how do you see that there is a possibility of relocation, and at the same time a reinforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u58	From the national targets, and the realisation of them, I see those targets achieved in the option I indicate rather than if we leave it as it is now, because then nothing will end up in those two areas. And my concern for nature and for realizing it is also feasible and feasible in its implementation. It is simply incompatible; otherwise I would not bring it here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u59	And do you see any incompatibility with the current situation, because you do not want, for example, to reduce livestock farming? Is that a taboo for you? Do you not want to limit the economic borders, or do you say: well, that could also be a possibility? So we're not just looking into current developments, where the only possibility is to move nature. But do you also see opportunities on the other hand, i.e. limiting certain economic activities, which gives us more room to grow those habitat types and ecosystems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u60	The striking thing is that this was also Mrs Kluit's question about the fact that, at the very heart of the matter, this is not, as it were, a conflict of interest with economic processes. It is a different process in Grevelingen; it is not an agricultural process or relocation. That's not going to help either, not even with the Wierdene Veld. Then you might have to move 30 companies or something, if you wanted anything. Then you have to move the drinking water extraction. But moving drinking water is not going to happen, because that is the water for the whole of the East Netherlands. And Vitens convinced me, because they go to 8 million cubic metres: the water extraction stays there. And then nature doesn't grow up. And I think you should also be convinced that if nature doesn't grow up there, it's better to grow up in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u61	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u62	Then monitoring and supervision, Mr. Chairman. I'm at my second last block. The monitoring of Natura 2000 has already been requested by other groups on this subject, and attention should also be paid to the qualities of Natura 2000 sites. How has monitoring been carried out so far? In what way are qualitative developments and investment costs considered socially? And does the Minister include the results in strategic location? And monitoring is a national responsibility when it comes to Natura 2000. Then the provinces are responsible for the national nature network. How do the provinces monitor the monitoring of the Empire, so that we have an integral overview of the national nature network? And then there's the Ecological Monitoring Network. Who's gonna supervise that? Then it's about land management and organisations, such as State Forestry and Natural Monuments. How'd that go for the last five years? And how does the Minister of LNV keep both Chambers informed about this? And finally, the evaluation. The evaluation is not specifically about the Supplementary Nature Act or the Decision Nature, but about the Introduction Environmental Act, including sound, land ownership and so on, as well as nature. I am looking at both ministers now, but perhaps I should look at the Minister of the Interior. Like the members of the CDA Group, the government sees the importance of monitoring. That's what I just said. In the debate in this Chamber on 28 January, I think we discussed the evaluation, also as an important adjustment model as part of the policy cycle. In general terms, this legal assessment of effectiveness, the effects etc. will take place within five years of entry into force. That's what the Surroundings Act stipulates. During the debate on the Environment Act, Mrs Van Veldhoven made a commitment on behalf of the cabinet. I would ask the Minister to address specifically the question of how an independent advisory committee can play a role in this, including in terms of accountability to both chambers. How does she see that? On the basis of the replies, the political groups in this Chamber will not only consider the CDA's submission of a motion, either as a supplement or as support. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not least, I would also like to thank the messengers for their constant care for our hygiene. Great! Mr. Chairman. "The tree that stirs some to tears is in the eyes of others only a green stand-in-the-way." With these playful words of the poet William Blake I would like to begin my speech on the Supplementary Law on Nature. I'll start the hunt. National and provincial hunting policies have now become a patchwork of exemptions and exemptions. For landowners and hunting certificates it is sometimes hardly possible to follow. Why isn't more responsibility returned to these professionals? I'll mention the limited game list. These are species which can be eaten as sustainable meat, which are common and which tolerate hunting. Why are the grey geese and gooses not on the wild list, for example? They're causing a lot of damage now, including in nature reserves. They're everywhere by now. The meat is sold and the frameworks of the fauna management plan remain. I would like to hear a more detailed explanation of the game list and its criteria. Is my assumption correct that geese are now being hunted on the basis of the strict derogations from the Birds Directive, which, given the numbers, no longer apply to them at all? I also mention the use of tools such as decoys and silencers. You'll have to wait and see if you get an exemption. It's different in every province. I call for this to be regulated more nationally, with sufficient space for hunters, so that they can do their job properly and protect not only meadow birds from predators, but also themselves from hearing damage. Mr. Chairman. A hot issue is the Natura 2000 regime. I have a question about how targets are set and tested. As far as conservation objectives are concerned, there are few tastes: either conservation, enlargement or improvement. That is, I believe, not the priority set out in the Habitats Directive. For example, it should be made clearer in the objectives that a small habitat in an area designated for very different reasons is less important than a large habitat in an area designated as Natura 2000 because of that habitat. This makes it easier to set the right priorities when assessing permits by public authorities or the courts. Now everything weighs about the same weight and is placed on all snails salt. This makes it unnecessarily difficult for ourselves. I ask the Minister to include that priority in the draft decision. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber adopted a motion by my colleague Mr Schalk asking the government to make the nature data in the National Database Flora and Fauna available to permit applicants free of charge. The Minister has responded positively to this. When will it be? Mr. Chairman. According to the government agreement, a comparative legal study would be carried out on how European environmental directives have been introduced in different Member States. There are now the necessary reports on the Birds and Habitats Directives. There is, among other things, a report which points out that in the species protection regime, in the interpretation of the directives, the roads sometimes vary, with the Netherlands being the most strict in the doctrine. What lessons does the Minister draw from these reports? Relevant differences are, in my view, also in the way the judge looks at the provisions. I have the impression that the Council of State is looking differently at the nature conservation regime than, for example, the Bundesverfassungsgericht in Germany. Does the Minister include this in her comparative law investigation? Mr. Chairman. When science and legislation hit each other, it just gets exciting. That is certainly the case with the nitrogen dossier. Policy and legislation require a clarification that I do not think science can deliver. I refer to the critical deposition value. Although that word hardly occurs in the proposals before us, the policy stands or falls with it. If a habitat is located in an area that stays below, then everything is green; if a habitat is located in an area that rises above it, then everything is red. On behalf of the government, precise values have been determined to the decimal place, while the science indicates that it is very territorial and that there are large bandwidths. And now, in a new bill, the Minister even wants to devote a national purpose to it, as a new environmental value. I also mention the compulsory use of AERIUS calculation model. This calculates the deposition as a result of an individual project up to the hectares and up to two digits behind the decimal place. The Hordijk Committee has now indicated that this is far too detailed. I ask the Minister to reflect on this tension between science and legislation. How is she going to prevent us from asking about science? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u65	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to colleagues for all the substantive questions that have already been asked. I can agree with a large part of that. That means I can be a little more upstairs and a little more abstract. Nature is also close to the heart of the SP. It has been almost a year since the House of Representatives dealt with this bill. But the world has changed a lot since then, and I'm not talking about corona. According to the ministers, the only thing that remains firmly in place in all the headwinds is the Environment Act. Report after report after report, ruling after ruling after ruling only provokes ministers to say that everything still fits in with the structure of the Environment Act. Although parts need to be adapted, disabled or completely revised, the adadium remains that everything fits within the structure. And where it doesn't fit within the structure, it's supposed to be in the spirit of the Environment Act. I sometimes read that with some surprise, but I can also see that there is tension on the relationship content and form. In this way, the Environment Act becomes almost more a feeling, an experience, a movement than a clear law. A path that has been taken and often appears to be a one-way street. But a law is still required to provide clarity for those who have to deal with it, both in order to appeal to it and to defend you? My question is how concrete the law is for users and what remains of the idea of "decentral, unless." I started as a driver a few years ago with that beautiful thought of "decentral, unless." This was because the starting point was that it was possible to decide on a decentralised basis and not that what was imposed centrally from above had to be carried out on a decentralised basis. If we look at nature today, there are now legally anchored frameworks. I like that, too. In the opinion of the SP, too much has already been regulated via AMvBs, our main concern in the Environment Act, so that could be called a good turn of events. I am therefore looking forward to the response of the ministers to the commitment that Mrs Moonen asked and which she called crucial for the D66 opinion on this bill. I look forward to that answer. Mr. Chairman. The problem, however, is that that legal anchoring, which we strongly support, is always reactive and, in fact, only if there is coercion from a legal ruling or a report that cannot be ignored; so only if it has to be. Nature, nitrogen, air quality, land use, soil quality, water quality, pesticides, yesterday again, they are all important issues in which the government will not escape to impose standards and values from above or even does so. What is left in the structure of the "decentral, unless"? Is the central role not affected by all these national standards, I would like to ask the ministers, and is it not mainly decentralised? I told you, I'd like a response. By the way, this is a structural question of mine and not a value judgment. That's just a comment. Mr. Chairman. I also continue to be amazed at the lack of a concrete timetable for the follow-up of the Environment Act, including the Offering Act and the commitments to this Chamber to process it and the DSO. In the last letter, I have to say that, on the question of a concrete interpretation of the course, the First Chamber is given a path that speaks mainly of after the summer. But everything is after next week, when the recess is about to begin, "after the summer." It's my birthday in December, and that's after the summer. There is one thing I would like to highlight, and that is in view of the proposals before us and the DSO, which I shall do before the summer. The BIG report, important for the development, would be ready in the schedule before the summer. The minister now writes that this will come after the summer, with a cabinet response. I now have a very specific question to ask the Minister of the Interior: is the BIG report ready and is it waiting for the cabinet response to offer it together, or has the BIG report not yet been completed? I'd like to know about the Minister. Mr. Chairman. What are we supposed to do with a Nature Supplementary Decision, in which, according to the Minister, the most important element for us, the nitrogen problem, is rendered ineffective and we have to fall back on what we have? But, as I say to the Minister, what we have is mainly great uncertainty right now. In the last written reply, the Minister, on request, states that the AERIUS model can simply be used, even if this is considered to be an improvement by the Hordijk Committee, let me say euphemistically. The problem with AERIUS, however, is, I can say from the practical point of view, that it has been extremely unstable from the outset and that the results vary from one version to another. The hexagons, the beautiful minute units that the model works with, differ per month and per version from red to green and vice versa. I looked at it earlier as a driver with amazement and had to react over and over again to decisions we had made that had to be changed again. Those were often long-term decision-making routes, so that was pretty complicated. A calculation model that is unstable also makes the legal process unstable. Does the Minister recognise that a shaky calculation model leads to shaky legal sustainability? Has any thought been given to it and is a plan already in place if the judge decides that the defects in AERIUS are so severe that it cannot be a basis for decision-making? It may well be that the Hordijk report has a legal anticipating effect. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she feels about that. This raises the question of what the perspective would be for all those industries which depend on clarity in the areas of nitrogen, air, water and soil. Mr. Chairman. What we actually see in practice is a reality that has gradually overtaken environmental law thinking, but we have to stick to thinking in the structure of the Environment Act. Mr. Chairman. I shall conclude slowly, thanks to my colleague for all the questions. In practice, the country will have to turn its back now that the government has repeatedly shown itself to want to move only if there is inescapable compulsion. What we need is at least a clear timetable for the follow-up. I have just referred to what becomes more concrete than 'after the summer'. With all the reports that are out there and we're not dealing with today, all of which are still coming in addition, but which do directly affect the Environment Act, there has gradually been a dense fog in society for the users. The government continues to progress in this dense fog full of gas. It is, thinking from the traffic, a dangerous phenomenon in traffic that has been shown to be unintentionally speeding up in fog, with all its consequences and dangers. Therefore, there are a number of rules that reduce the risk of accidents in fog: moderate your speed and ensure optimal visibility. That is why it would be a good idea, as the SP Group, if the government were to take a little off the accelerator and moderate speed, and if all available information were to be made public in full transparency, so that everyone would have an optimal view of what we are doing in the processes with the Environment Act and also in the processes that are going on behind the scenes inside rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the Natural Environment Act. The starting point of the Environment Act is to increase the administrative balance within the objectives of the law and other legal provisions, where the adage is "decentral, unless." The aim of the Environment Act is to simplify: to provide more control space for local authorities, less control over detailed standards, more control over targets. This means a law which will have to ensure that the different interests involved in the implementation of the physical environment can be weighed and that this balance will lead to a balanced vision of the environment and an environmental plan. It is therefore important that all parts of the physical environment find a place in this law, including nature. The WMB came into force in 2017. At the time of drafting and implementing this law, account has already been taken of a future incorporation of the WMB into the system of the Environment Act. The transition is therefore politically poor, says the Minister. That's true, but it does change. The approach of the Environment Act is different. That is what nature's supplement law adapts to. You can also say that working from the rules, "no, unless," turns into works from trust, "yes, if." That working out of trust is focused on the "what," achieving goals. That's a change that fits into the system of the Environment Act. It's also a way of working that's gonna have to prove itself. This emphasis on trust is also reflected in the Minister's answers to our question, as well as those of others, why she did not incorporate the developed legal alignment rules from the WMB into the Environment Act. The Minister has chosen to join Article 2.2, which contains a general mandate for coordination. In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister refers to existing agreements and possible further administrative agreements. This is a major change compared to the WMB. As a reason, the Minister states that she relies on trust between administrative bodies. Governments are supposed to be able to weigh their interests, with coordination and cooperation with other governments being self-evident. It is therefore not necessary to include detailed consultation and coordination provisions. This emphasis on trust appeals to my group. It also does justice to the individual responsibility of the various authorities. But trust does require accountability afterwards. And where confidence is not justified, the government should still have the opportunity to intervene. The Minister referred in his reply to the ladder of intervention and the eventual possibility of replacing provinces. It is clear to my group that such action can only be taken in the extreme. Preferably they'll be prevented. At the same time, the impact of insufficient cooperation or consultation can lead to major social unrest. By way of illustration, I recall the events of a few months ago. During the nitrogen bypass, the Minister reached an agreement with farmers' organisations on how to deal with a number of rules on nitrogen. In the development of these rules, the provinces proved to work out these rules differently: different from the minister's intention and also different from each other. It led to a huge unrest among farmers, who felt this effect of the rules directly in their wallet. Can the Minister state again on which she bases her belief that the developed legal alignment rules from the WMB do not need to be incorporated into the Environment Act? In the reply I read that the Environment Act will be evaluated within five years. That is a normal term, but also quite a long time. Mrs Kluit also pointed out that if we add the term of the WMB, we are talking about a very long time. Will the Minister address the question of how she sees the monitoring and evaluation of this law? Will the evaluation be carried out by an independent committee? In addition, there is the question of how the Minister will intervene when it appears that there is insufficient coordination between the administrative bodies, with negative consequences for nature conservation. She won't wait five years. I'd like a response. The Natura 2000 sites form a separate category within nature, as they are mainly governed by Union law. The increase in the discretion of the local authorities is more difficult here. However, there are areas where there is some scope for balancing interests, the Minister writes. This is the case, for example, in the case of a choice of mitigation measures and in the case of an ADC test. Can the Minister elaborate on that? In what cases could these measures or tests be considered? To whom will the outcome of this measure or test be submitted? My group has a single question about the conservation rules applicable to Natura 2000 sites. Nature adapts to climate change. This can mean that nature changes: it does not go back to diversity, but it does change its composition. Does Union law allow for the adaptation of conservation rules? Mr. Chairman. The rules relating to the protection of nature are found in various places in the Environment Act. As a result, the various agreements and rules relating to nature conservation cannot be seen clearly and in conjunction with each other in the law. One could conclude that this fragmentation no longer clearly anchors the importance of nature conservation in the law and that, in balancing interests, nature interests can be overlooked. Another view is that because the importance of nature conservation is highlighted in several places in the law, nature is better integrated into the law and will play a clearer role in the integral balance. The same two views are also possible with the nature vision that goes into the environmental vision. Is that a reinforcement or a weakening of nature's share? My group can follow both lines of thought. On this point, we give the legislative proposal the benefit of the doubt, but we insist that the monitoring and evaluation, to which I referred earlier, take an explicit look at this point. Is nature's interest sufficiently taken into account? Is nature sufficiently protected? Mr. Chairman. The Environmental Act is intended to give governments the opportunity to achieve a balanced environmental vision and a balanced environmental plan. The citizen, the initiator, will benefit from this. The application for a licence becomes simpler and more transparent and will go faster, writes the Minister. The condition is that there is a clear and clear DSO, where the initiator, the citizen concerned, can find the right information, which enables him to make an assessment of his chances of obtaining a licence. Can the Minister comment on the state of play of the DSO at the moment? And are there specific requirements in the process of the nature supplement law that make inclusion in the DSO even more difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u69	Let me go back to the previous point: the benefit of the doubt and the transition from nature visions to environmental visions. Is the Christian Union Group also aware of the report that has already been researched on how this transformation is taking place, to which I referred earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u70	Right now, I don't have that report in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u71	There were two aspects where the environmental visions were ready and the nature visions were taken over, the quality deteriorated. One. It generalized, so it became less specific. The other point was that one chapter on nature was sufficient, rather than, as it was intended, passing through all those other policy areas. Would the Christian Union Group specifically highlight these points in the demand for monitoring and evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u72	When I ask for monitoring and evaluation, I assume that all the points of interest will be taken into account and, of course, these points will also be included. Mr. Chairman. My group appreciates the clarity of the Minister on the subject of nitrogen, in the light of the last Remkes report. In due course, we will discuss this subject extensively with the Minister. In summary. My group has a positive approach to this law. But this law does set in motion a number of changes. I would therefore like to stress once again that we believe it is very important that the drafting of this law is carefully monitored and evaluated in all areas of interest, including by an independent committee, so that action can be taken when necessary, and that this can be done in good time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Legislation that is contrary to nature deserves to be held against the light, because it threatens everything that is defenseless. The government itself says: the Nature Protection Act is transformed policy neutrally into the Environment Act. Apart from the discussion as to whether this transposition actually takes place politically neutrally, the policy-neutral intention immediately makes this law obsolete. One would expect that the stakes would have doubled, and that this would have been reflected in legislation, because nature in the Netherlands has been behind for decades. Failure to respect natural laws and environmental boundaries makes nature worse than ever. Dehydration, deterioration, fertilization, pesticides and a blanket of nitrogen-painted ecosystems and require a delta plan for nature restoration. The landscapes become monotonous, silent, sloppy and empty. Species disappear at a furious rate. Over 75% of the flying insects have disappeared over the last 27 years and the whole useful insect quartet threatens to collapse like a house of cards. Many meadow birds, including the grutto as a national icon, are threatened with extinction. Extending the limits of economic growth for decades has led to this crisis. It is an ecological crisis caused by us, people, that would have a huge impact on our own existence and on that of future generations. Major legislative measures, which, above all, offer real protection to nature, are more necessary than ever. Thus, the policy-neutral transformation does not lead to improvement, but to further deterioration of nature. The Environment Act has two objectives: to protect and exploit the living environment. It is precisely this that is a deadly frame of mind, that lets nature continue to degenerate. It leads to a wider balancing framework, while we need stronger legal anchoring for nature. The core of the Environment Act, the broader balancing framework for local authorities, is at odds with the central direction of the Empire, which is currently desperately needed to tackle the biodiversity crisis. This supplement law has since become obsolete due to the nitrogen crisis. The level of nitrogen emissions from agriculture is unabated. Emissions of nitrogen oxide from traffic and industry have declined slightly due to corona, but will soon be back to the old level by attracting activity. The Remkes Committee made it crystal clear that more legal protection is needed. I quote: 'No target reduction, but legal anchoring of nitrogen reduction as a result obligation in the Nature Protection Act'. The Committee also believes that all nature reserves should be fully restored in 30 years' time. This opinion is in stark contrast to the legislative proposal before us, without the legal anchoring of nitrogen reduction as a result obligation and without intermediate hard, checkable objectives. In addition, the chemical box of the cabinet produces other animal feed, neither the animal health effects nor the effects on nitrogen emissions are established. Mr. Chairman. Regering is again: moving forward over the next election; who then lives, who then cares. We have long known, since the report of the Wijffels Committee in 2001, that shrinkage in livestock farming is very much needed to restore nature. This report, and the dozens that followed, were consistently ignored by the government. But what does the government do? In 2023, two years after this cabinet said goodbye, it will be assessed whether innovation produces more nitrogen reduction. In other words: a smaller herd is once again not fixed. This proposal is not only disastrous for all the citizens of the Netherlands, who are entitled to healthy nature and a healthy environment, but also nature is seriously deficient. The drama of uncertainty remains like a sword of Damocles hanging over the heads of the peasants. We continue to stretch the limits of economic growth as much as possible, while the exceedances have long gone beyond the moral limits. We are getting proposals on air scrubbers that increase the risk of barn fires and with funding for innovation we are getting more low-emission stables. As a result, we know that we have actually long gone beyond these limits. Nature is crying out for a better legal anchoring of its protection. What's so special about this Supplementary Nature Act is that within the Environment Act, it most clearly shows the bankruptcy of the present tense, the age-spirit of short-term politics and problem management in order to provide as much space as possible for economic growth. Mr President, I'm almost done. The decentralisation of nature policy, the core objective of the Environment Act, also shows this. Provinces may manage the shredded pieces of green in the patchwork: here a little off and there a little bit. We see the same thing when dealing with nitrogen: a little bit of it and a little bit of it off, without a proper national legal obligation to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u75	I was wondering if Mrs Teunissen missed a letter from the government. In response to Remkes' advice, the government writes very emphatically that it wants to provide legal safeguards for nitrogen reduction and to lay down this also legally. This is different from what Mrs Teunissen has just argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u76	Yeah, that's right. I read that letter, but I'm looking at the law that's in front of me right now. This bill is incorporated into the Environmental Act. We expect this law to be sufficient in the coming decades not only to protect our nature, but also to improve it and to achieve its conservation objectives. As far as our group is concerned, therefore, it is necessary that this law is sufficient and that we do not see any further measures later. So I look purely and only at what is now in store. I note that this is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u77	I have a question for Mrs Teunissen about the statement that the Environmental Law and the Supplementary Law nature regulate the decentralisation of nature to provinces and municipalities. Can Mrs Teunissen explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u78	You can see that there is a broader balancing framework for provinces and municipalities when it comes to the core of the Environmental Act, namely exploiting it versus protecting it. That's the core of the Environment Act. Where previously protection was more anchored and established, we are now faced with a wider balancing framework for local authorities. Because of this decentralisation and this broader balancing framework, it will be difficult for us to assess whether this law will improve the nature or the deterioration of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u79	In my contribution, I indicated that the decentralisation of nature took place in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. It is now a matter of whether the current Nature Protection Act, which has been adopted by both chambers, is translated politically neutrally into the Environment Act. Then the question is: where do you see more space on the nature protection file in the current Nature Protection Act, in relation to the Supplementary Nature Act we are currently dealing with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u80	I said at the beginning of my speech that there was a policy-neutral transposition. But in the Nature Protection Act we had, there was one package of protection measures. Now you actually see a distinction between the law and the decisions. Certain measures are reflected in the law and certain measures are reflected in decisions. This will reduce the national direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u81	Is Mrs Teunissen aware that, precisely when it comes to setting national targets, such as conservation targets Natura 2000, the cabinet can replace a province and act even more firmly than it could without environmental law? Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u82	Yes, I know where you're going with this, but that's not the discussion at all. My argument is that we need a tighter direction from the government. So we need more substantive goals from the national government to restore and improve nature. But that's not contrary to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u83	Mr Rietkerk, fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u84	In fact, when the targets are determined in the Second and First Chambers and the cabinet is commissioned, we are responsible for determining those targets. The law system says that the cabinet can act firmly in relation to provinces and municipalities. That's different from the Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u85	Well, that remains to be seen, because on the other hand we have reports just now that Wageningen's report has been cited a number of times in which it says that, precisely because of the balancing framework that is now before us, we are no longer able to see whether that leads to a deterioration or an improvement. So in any case, the national framework that we now have is not sufficiently clear to say: yes, nature is being improved. Mr. Chairman. As a group, therefore, we would like to see a sound national legal result obligation within the Environment Act. So not later in measures to reduce nitrogen, but within this legal framework. I will conclude with a few questions to the Minister of Nature. Can it indicate how it justifies the same level of protection in the light of the depravable state of nature? Does it consider that this law provides enough tools to improve the protection of flora and fauna and not just to maintain existing poor quality? Does it consider that a reduction in the number of Natura 2000 sites is a solution to any problem? If so, what problem? Can she explain how, as a Chamber, we can agree to a law that does not solve the biodiversity crisis and the nitrogen crisis, while the Cabinet also announces inadequate accompanying measures? Why isn't it one final bill? Finally. A government that nationwide directs a biodiversity and climate- and future-proof interconnected nature network is more needed than ever. A look at the scenarios that scientists at Wageningen University have had made in response to the biodiversity crisis and the climate crisis, about what the Netherlands looks ideally like in 100 years' time, is significant. The Netherlands of 2120 has much more forest and much more water than the Netherlands of today. The basins of the rivers are wider, to better absorb high-water peaks. Along the rivers and around the cities we find green buffers, which provide an attractive landscape, for great biodiversity and for cooling. These challenges require protection, extension of nature and a clear timetable. Let us now finally start by failing to settle for this law. There's no time to lose and a world to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u86	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Finally, Mr Dessing of the Forum for Democracy has the floor during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u87	Mr. Chairman. Ministers. The Jengatoren as a metaphor for the construction of the Environment Act is still standing, although it now looks different than during the plenary treatment of the Introduction Act Environment Act at the end of January. That is understandable, because it is a system in development with many changes in legislation and other developments around the whole system of this law. For example, there were questions and concerns about the DSO, which helped to postpone the introduction of the system by one year until 1 January 2022. The Group of the Forum for Democracy understands this delay and agrees with many other parties that due care is needed for a good quality system, but we believe that treatment of the Nature Supplementary Act is necessary today to keep the system in motion. Our group welcomes the letter from the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Fisheries of 26 June in which it will ultimately clarify a question which is important to us and which I shall confine myself to in my contribution. That question is: is the incorporation of the Nature Protection Act into the Environmental Act policy neutral and is it independent of the implementation standards on nitrogen? In short, are we talking today sec about the structure of the structure of the Environment Act in general and the Supplementary Nature Act in particular and are we talking at another time about the implementation standards nitrogen? You can be for one thing and against another. Mr. Chairman. At present, the Nature Protection Act, which has been amended as of 1 January 2020 by the Emergency Law approach to nitrogen, applies. Our group voted against this emergency law. As far as we are now interpreting the Minister's answers, the nitrogen reduction task set out in the emergency law is not yet enshrined in the new Environment Act and we will discuss it in this Chamber at a later date, when the Minister comes up with the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement bill which should anchor the structural approach to nitrogen and nitrogen reduction. The letter of 26 June also states that Article 2.9 of the Environment Act defines the environmental value as a value for the permissible concentration or deposition of substances expressed in measurable or calculable terms for nitrogen-sensitive habitat types and habitats of species in Natura 2000 sites according to Article 2.15. Can the Minister reflect on this interpretation and commit to our group that we are talking today about the structure of the law, without implementing standards on nitrogen? Is that what she means by a policy-neutral transposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u88	Is Mr Dessing aware that the Minister answered this question in reply to the questions and that he must assume that when we adopt this law, the old PAS and the Emergency Law approach to nitrogen, which you opposed, will apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u89	I'm aware of that, but I'd like to be clear about the order. I want that divorce to be clear to us. I'd like to hear that confirmation from the Minister. In addition, can the Minister confirm that in the current situation, where the Environment Act has not yet entered into force, there is only enforcement standards for nitrogen in the Nature Protection Act, including changes by the Emergency Act approach to nitrogen, and that in the current situation there are no legally anchored nitrogen reduction standards? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who says a against the introduction of the Environmental Law must also say b to the Supplementary Law nature. Our group welcomes this structure, but will remain critical of its content and content. The Supplementary Act, including the empty PAS casing we're going to discuss later, still confirms my image of a Jengators. With the PAS block now being removed from this tower, the structure remains intact and the guarantee of a realistic nature policy in the structure is, in our opinion, well arranged. We would like to discuss later on the usefulness and necessity of this PAS-block. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u90	Thank you, Mr Dessing. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u91	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill of addition to the Nature Environment Act, and of the letter of the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality of 6 September 2019 to offer the draft Supplementary Nature Environment Act. I give the floor to Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be the first to speak and Mr Schouten after me because I choose the point of view of the system and the questions that have been asked about it. Mrs Schouten, of course, focuses mainly on the Nature Supplementary Act, say more about the content. I'm a little distracted by a sound, but I don't think this applies to anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u93	I'm just looking at... The sound's already out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u94	Great, that's better. We are talking today about the last of the four supplemental laws. That's a special moment, isn't it? I would like to briefly explain why I consider the Environment Act and the natural supplemental track to be important. Then I'll answer all the questions. The Netherlands faces a number of major societal challenges. It's about housing, energy transition, nature and accessibility. In the co-governments, municipalities, provinces and water boards, there is a great need for the instruments that the Environmental Act will soon provide. The major difference from the current situation is, of course, that we are moving towards an integrated toolbox, whereas it is now happening sectorally. I believe that these major societal challenges also require a coherent policy and coherent implementation. For example, we have the Climate Agreement. This requires interplay between all kinds of things, such as mobility, built environment, industry, electricity, agriculture and land use. It is precisely with our fellow governments that all these subjects come together. A zoning plan that is only about good land use planning does not really fit in with what we are doing with each other anymore. An environmental plan does make this integrated approach possible. An example, although Members of Parliament occasionally go on work visits: I was in Soesterberg last year. There, thanks to the Crisis and Recovery Act, homes are being built along the old runway of the military airport. There we go from a beautiful activity, Defense, aircraft, and a lot of noise, to another interpretation of the area, with an industrial site and housing, while you literally see the deer walking over the old runway. That's good. There is also space for nature. This way you do justice to nature, to people and also to entrepreneurs. Procedures under the Crisis and Recovery Act are now also moving much faster. The research burden is lower and the regulation is more unambiguous, clearer and easier. I think that is good, because more and more people and companies want to be involved in the organisation of the living environment. If they have an idea, they'd rather not end up in a mess of all kinds of rules that you're not really making sense of. Then they just want to know how to get to work and what they have to meet. It is intended that citizens will soon find all the rules on the physical environment in one environmental plan and not in dozens of urban planning plans and regulations. Then the Supplementary Nature Act, an obvious and essential part of the physical environment. It is good that it is given a full place in the policy and decision-making of the physical environment. This has already been expressed in several places in the Environment Act. The rules also apply to nature. The key instruments that we will soon be able to use, the environmental vision, the environmental regulation and the environmental plan also look at nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u95	Mr. Chairman. The Minister uses fine words. I can imagine anything about that, but they are very much hitting on the theme. But the concern of some of the groups in this Chamber, perhaps all of them, is precisely about protecting and the values that cannot stand up for themselves. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u96	I can do that. In fact, that question is in my answer, because it was also put in first place. If it's all right with you, Mr. President, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u97	This issue will be dealt with in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u98	Then Mrs. Kluit can still come back to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u99	She certainly will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u100	You know her, I understand, Mr. Chairman. These are rules that are now supplemented by the Supplementary Act. In its opinion, the Council of State also said something about it: it is important that these natural rules are integrated into it and we must reconcile the importance of nature with other spatial and economic interests and the instruments provided by the Environment Act. I've come to connect to the Environment Act. It is in line with those key instruments that I mentioned. However, the legislative proposal also adds a number of specific instruments in areas where these are needed, such as the designation of Natura 2000 sites, which has also been requested just now. Ensuring the level of protection of nature and preserving the quality of nature are important principles for this complementary track. The content of those rules is therefore unchanged. It will sometimes lead to a different set of rules, but the level of protection, the instruments and the distribution of powers will be maintained. So we consistently weigh the importance of nature in the instruments at the front, including in the environmental vision, for example. This will prevent the application of the nature rules from delaying that process. So it offers opportunities to reconcile nature's interests with other interests. I actually think that the chance that the natural interest does not fall short is better anchored. Integral work is therefore an enrichment, I would say, and no dilution of nature. I am sure Mr Schouten will respond to that. In addition to the provinces, the municipalities under the Environmental Act will also have to work on the protection and exploitation of nature. This is already being experimented with. Maybe I can give you one more example. The Crisis and Recovery Law Plan Gardens of Zandweerd of the municipality of Deventer provides that only a contribution to nature, including construction, can be made. So that is one way of ensuring that the interests of building and nature are considered together at an early stage in the environmental plan and not just in the licensing process, so that is really highlighted. There are other examples of this kind and it is good to see that those ideas are already becoming reality. That integral approach to the physical environment through the integration of those natural rules is at the heart of what we do. We are creating coherence in the rules on space, environment, construction, infrastructure and all those cross-sector tasks that I was talking about at the beginning. This is how we move forward, and so we come up with solutions to complex societal issues. Mr President, that was my introduction. After this, I want to answer the questions in six blocks. First, I will deal with the Nature Environment Act, then with the questions about participation, then with the questions about monitoring and evaluation, then with a question about the NOVI, then with a number of questions about the DSO and I will finish with the entry into force. Then there's the supplemental law and the coincidence. With the supplemental track nature it is completed and we lay a foundation. Then, of course, new policies can be added. Of course, that always goes through the parliamentary route. I also expect that this will happen, because developments in the physical environment are not at all stopped. Nitrogen is often mentioned here. Mr Schouten will deal with this later, but let me say what is basic. Of course, I leave the whole complexity to Mr Schouten, who knows this much better than I do. The Emergency Act approach to nitrogen is included in the Nature Protection Act and will therefore be included in it when the Environmental Act enters into force. A similar route is followed for the legislative proposal for the structural approach to nitrogen. Some Members, in my view, at least asked Mrs Huizinga and Mr Recourt, what was the advantage of integrating nature rules into the Environment Act for the awareness and understanding of the rules? Mrs Huizinga gave a nice account of the fact that there are two points of view on this issue. She also asked whether this could be taken into account in the evaluation. I'm gonna talk to you about that anyway. I believe that the integration of rules into the Environment Act will indeed improve the awareness of rules. When there is a nature area in the vicinity of activities in the physical environment, such as a new residential area, an industrial site or a business site, then often different rules apply: rules on spatial planning, building, environment and nature. Those rules are now spread across different laws, AMvBs and ministerial regulations. Soon they will stand together in a single law with the corresponding AMvBs and regulations. In the Decree quality living environment, the instructions on nature for the province are given in all other rules for the provincial regulations. So that is insightful and makes it easier and more accessible. The same applies to the rules of the municipal environmental plan. The rules on Natura 2000 activities and other activities are set out in the Environmental Act. The AMvB contains all the rules to which the rules of initiative must comply. So those natural rules actually come directly into the picture if you want to develop something. This prevents longer journeys and also additional costs because you have to do something afterwards. So the rules are organized differently than they are used to, but that doesn't apply only to nature. This also applies to soil noise, air quality and other parts of the physical environment. So that is getting used to, but of course that is the result of setting up another system: then you have to look for it in a different way. At the same time: once you're used to it, it's much easier. This is also useful if you want to create an environmental plan or a provincial regulation. Also for private promoters, they can immediately, at once, see what rules apply to their project. And, of course, we will also pay a great deal of attention to including people in it, i.e. by providing information meetings, by providing an explanation on the website, with support. All that kind of business, of course, we have to do. In addition, Mr Janssen of the SP asked about the principle of "decentral, unless." "Decentral, unless" is indeed the starting point of the new system, and it is also legally enshrined in the new Environmental Act. But that does not mean that there are still national standards, such as those on the ground, and that has just been said in the first term by the Court of Justice in the implementation of European laws and regulations. There are also many standards for nature, and those standards offer national guarantees and national frameworks. However, there is room for local authorities to consider how they translate these national guarantees into specific areas or specific cases. And this Environment Act enables local authorities to make the most of this balancing area, which the European frameworks offer. So local authorities have and keep an important independent role in protecting and exploiting the physical environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u101	I was not so much concerned with the current situation and what is now, but with the list. If we look at all the reports, all the problems I mentioned, from pfas to nitrogen to land use, to the use of pesticides and so on, we will not escape increasing standards from the government. And that's what matters to me. I'm really talking about the system as a whole. The starting point of "decentral, unless" may still be in line with the current situation, but more and more and more situations are emerging where the government would not escape to come up with national standards to keep things going. And that was actually my point: to ask a reflection, on how in the future we will develop what we see coming; and not on how it is now, because I understand that starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u102	To some extent that is no different from what it is now, because standards are also in force at the moment. They can be nationwide, they can be European. They now get a translation, and sometimes local authorities can and sometimes cannot make their own assessment, depending on how broad or limited that framework is. Mr Janssen says: there is more and more. Well, it could be, but it might get a little off sometimes, too. But in itself, of course, that is the normal way of working, some things European, some things national, and that is then translated into a framework in which there is a decentralised balancing area. So I'm not worried that local authorities wouldn't be able to do that, nor that they wouldn't be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u103	No, that's not where I care. On the contrary, my concern is that they are getting less and less of a decentralised balance, and more of a decentralisation because of the central standards that are being drawn up. But by the time we start dealing with CSOs, we will undoubtedly be much further away from all kinds of problems that have passed through and which still need solutions, so at least we will involve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u104	Yes, because one thing is certain: for the time being, we will continue to talk about this legislation. Mr President, then there is participation. Mr Rietkerk asked for that. He did so, among other things, referring to the Nooren motion. This was a motion to require municipalities, provinces and water boards to consider in advance how they intend to implement participation and to define and publish it in policy. And indeed, that is more than just a reference to another law, the General Administrative Law. That is what Mr Rietkerk said, and I agree with him. In fact, local authorities should already indicate the way in which decentralised participation policies are implemented. However, the extension of the obligation to state reasons provides for local authorities not only to reflect on participation policies but also to define and publish them, and that they are obliged to justify how these decisions have been implemented in a specific case. It is, of course, up to governments themselves to decide exactly how to shape this participation policy. We believe that Mr Schouten and Mr Schouten will deal with this in the same way. In any case, it is very important from the cabinet that good participation is also brought to the attention of the provinces. This is also the subject of discussion when I talk to the domes: what are the critical factors for success and what are the objectives, values and conditions for participation? I will come back to this in the autumn from the point of view of the system. I think that Mr Schouten will deal with the role of the provinces in relation to nature. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an important point that has been raised and which several Members have asked questions about: monitoring and evaluation. Let me start with the questions put by Mr Rietkerk and Mrs Huizinga. They asked about the independent evaluation committee: what role does this committee have in relation to parliament? The agreement is that a wide-ranging independent evaluation committee will be set up. I also included this in the progress letter I sent last week, following a commitment made to Mr Rietkerk during the debate on the implementation law. This means that this committee will be set up prior to the entry into force of the law. I think it is important that this committee should be able to play a role in this way, through a form of advice, in the organisation of monitoring. When you evaluate a law after five years, it's very important that you've kept an eye on how things work in the meantime. This will create a factual basis for the evaluation. I will ask the committee to include the results, the results, of this monitoring in the evaluation study. Then it's running around nicely. In any case, I intend to send an annual progress report to Parliament on the basis of monitoring. At least that'll be the one who'll be sitting in my chair by then. The evaluation committee may report conclusions and recommendations after five years. The cabinet then has to deal with that. That in general. I wanted to add something specific, but I see Mr Rietkerk walking to the interrupting microphone. Oh, he's waiting for my addition. We are talking here about the Supplementary Nature Act, so we already have an idea of what subjects this monitoring should be about. That's a lot of topics. It could be about the participation process, legal protection and the DSO. But we have listened very carefully today, and it seems to us very good that this monitoring also looks specifically at nature and that the evaluation committee is calling for attention to be paid to this at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u105	I'm gonna drop the annual monitoring. I am concerned about the independent evaluation committee. Do I hear the Minister say that it will happen in five years, after entry into force? Or does that happen every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u106	The evaluation committee is already set up before the law enters into force and is asked to advise us on the annual monitoring. But the evaluation committee as such will not be responsible for monitoring, because I think that this is simply too much work for an evaluation committee. That monitoring is therefore, in fact, ongoing. The cabinet reports on this every year. This provides the factual basis for the evaluation committee, which is indeed preparing an evaluation of the whole after five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u107	In the social field, we have noticed that an evaluation after five years by a committee was too late. Am I listening to the Minister right now? Does she say that it is not until five years from now that we are really going to let the evaluation committee produce its own document?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u108	An independent evaluation of the whole is foreseen in five years' time. At the same time, this evaluation committee is already set up at the front and is involved in how monitoring is to be set up. Adjustments can be made in the meantime. There is therefore no need to wait for the five-yearly evaluation. The evaluation committee can, of course, mid-term assess whether it is satisfied with the way in which the monitoring is carried out. After all, they advised on that. So the answer is: annual monitoring, and adjustment can always be intermediate if we are not satisfied on the basis of the monitoring information. The evaluation/advisory commission may also have findings on this, but it has been set up to carry out an overall evaluation over a period of five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u109	Can the Minister comment on the commitment we have received in the debate on the entire Environment Act, the introduction law? It has been promised that an annual evaluation will be carried out in the first five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u110	That's actually exactly what I just outlined. The evaluation committee is already set up at the front and is also independent, of course. We will monitor, both horizontal and vertical parts of the law, again on the basis of advice from the evaluation committee. The Chamber shall be informed of such monitoring annually. That may also be a reason for adjustment. The evaluation committee will carry out an evaluation of the total after a period of five years, which builds up a lot of facts. I believe that this is entirely in line with the commitment made by the cabinet in the debate on the introduction law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u111	I am trying to help the Minister, because I myself have a different feeling about that commitment; I think we can also get that out of the report. It was precisely a question of an independent committee taking an annual look at the whole procedure, not just after five years. That was the whole point of discussion: an independent committee and those five years. We want to hear from that committee every year how it looks at the results of the monitoring and implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u112	Now, I think, we're getting closer. What you are asking for, I think, is that Mr Rietkerk also asked whether the evaluation committee could also play a role in the evaluation phase after five years. The answer to that is yes. Prior to this, she advises on how the monitoring should be carried out. I can very well imagine, as I said in reply to a question by Mr Rietkerk, that the evaluation committee can also play a role in the interim, because it looks at the results of that monitoring. That is different from having the evaluation committee carry out the whole monitoring. We have considered that this is simply too much work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u113	Mrs. Kluit, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u114	How to distribute that well I leave it to the Minister, but I am once again hearing the commitment that the evaluation committee can report annually to the Chambers on how it looks at implementation and monitoring results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u115	Well, I just said something else. I have said that it seems logical to me that the evaluation committee should also have an interim role. After all, the evaluation committee has been set up and gets all the information. And it can also let us know if and what views exist within the committee. The annual monitoring letter will simply be sent to you by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u116	Mrs. Kluit, fourth, last. Another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u117	Can I still respond to the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u118	If you would like to make it brief, because the number of interruptions per Member is limited. If you have one more supplementary question, let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u119	Perhaps then the other Minister could comment on the evaluation period of the Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u120	Mr Schouten will deal with that in a moment. I have just said that we will also look carefully at the subject of nature in monitoring. That means that if there is any intermediate cause, we will deal with it. We have already agreed, which is also laid down in the Environment Act, that the Planning Bureau for the Environment will publish a scientific report on the development and quality of the physical environment once every four years. It's called the Balance of Living Environment. It looks at all the elements: nature, environment, water, landscape and so on. PBL also produces a biennial report on the state of policy implementation: progress and new development in relation to nature, forest and landscapes. In addition, the PBL carries out an evaluation of the Natural Pact every three years. PBL will also monitor the safeguarding of the priorities and national interests of the NOVI, which, of course, has to do with this by means of biennial reporting. This Novi, which also sets out our societal goals, is again linked to the Environment Act when it comes to protecting and exploiting. If that monitor also shows that something isn't going well, we're not gonna wait, but we're gonna adjust in the meantime. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I have had the questions about monitoring and evaluation. There was a specific question from Mr Rietkerk on the NOVI in relation to Natura 2000. His statement is correct. The selection designation and objectives of Natura 2000 are a responsibility of the Empire. Improving and protecting nature and biodiversity is one of the national interests in the NOVI. We are implementing this by identifying these Natura 2000 sites. It runs around as Mr Rietkerk also outlined. Then the subject of DSO. A number of questions have been asked about this. Perhaps I could start with Mrs Huizinga, who asked about the planning and the state of play. It is very important to provide as much clarity and overview as possible. This rural provision of the DSO is under development. The current state of play is that the version of the DSO delivered at the end of last year is currently being used by all governments to connect and fill with content and practice with it. That's what we're doing all year. The entire year 2020 is being used for this, while at the same time we are phasing out the basic version of the national supply. By bringing the law into force a year later, your Chamber has been informed about this.We create extra time for implementing and further improving the use by municipalities, provinces, water boards and also the Empire itself. I have included a roadmap in the planning, about which you have recently received a message. After the summer, I will send you more progress information so that we can have the debate on the entry into force sometime in the autumn. I understand members of your Chamber would like to take part in a practice session on the DSO. I'm very happy about that. I did it myself, and it makes it very insightful what it really is. The members can then experience for themselves how the DSO works. I will, of course, send the opinions of the BIT and the follow-up of Gateway and the policy response to them to your Chamber when they arrive. That will indeed be after the summer. In that context, I asked BIT to look at the further development and development of the DSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u121	Nature is one of the components of the DSO. Can the Minister promise that the broad financial implications of the DSO for provinces, municipalities and water authorities will be seen in December, or at least for the impact of the DSO?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u122	Yeah, sure. That's right. We have actually made good agreements with the provinces. They made a reservation for that. We stand for the central part and the co-governments stand for the decentralised part. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u123	The VNG letter that aldermen bring to our attention when it comes to implementation gives us a slightly different perspective. They reflect concerns in a broad sense, and about corona. It also mentions the environmental legislation, implementation, quality and capacity of people, and the DSO. Does this minister recognize that, or doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u124	I'm sure I recognize the corona point. That is also one of the reasons why, after consultation with all the authorities concerned, we have said: let us opt for a later date of entry into force. Corona shut the place down for a while. I know that for a fact. About finances: provinces have simply made funds available for this. Municipalities sometimes have bottlenecks in the whole of their finances. I recognize that, in the sense that it is not necessarily related to this trajectory. Some municipalities need to look very closely at municipal finances at all. The cabinet is talking about this with both the VNG and individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u125	I hear the Minister say, in a minor way, 'when we come to talk about the entry into force of the whole system in the autumn'. I started my contribution on that. Although it is dangerous to say, I am sure that I speak on behalf of many political groups when I say that we, as the entire Chamber, attach great importance to the fact that this KB is only being pre-scheduled and we are only talking about its entry into force when all or almost all of the additional legislation is ready, the DSO is really operational and all partners are really ready for it. I can imagine that it also gives the Minister a sense of comfort if, when she talks with us about the entry into force and the veil of the Royal Decree, she knows that a lot has now been completed. I think it would be nice for the whole process if we, as a Chamber, could have the confidence that we actually have, so to speak, 95% of all the additional documents. That's the road map you were talking about. I think we called it a timetable. We sent you a letter about that. From your point of view, I understand that you think that this is probably already the case in October?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u126	My understanding was not intended at all as the answer to Mrs Klip's question. Let me say that in advance. Because I had one last block about entry into force. I am quite prepared to deal with that now, as Mrs Klip has gone to the interrupting microphone. I think it is very important that the Chamber feels well informed about the whole process. This is indeed about the legislation, the finalisation of the legislation, the DSO and the implementation in the country. That must be carefully and hand in hand. My intention is to send another progress report on this in September. We're looking at the DSO every month. How's that going? How's the connections going? We all make that transparent. It's all on the website. You, like me, are still waiting for the BIT opinion. Of course, we should have that, too. Then I expect a next gateway review after the summer. In short, there is still a great deal to be done. At the same time, we must prepare for the next step. That's actually what I'm trying to say. I don't want to preside over the KB unless I think that's justified. Not only me, but also the other administrative partners must find that responsible. I hear the Chamber very well, and Mrs Klip in particular. It believes that the legislation should then be finalized. That is what we are actually doing, because if we have today dealt with the Supplementary Act and the Supplementary Decision nature, it goes to the Council of State. Then we can get the opinions back from the Council of State on the four complementary decisions. The national supply of the DSO is there. This is work in progress, both nationally and decentrally, in other words with the connection of the co-governments. I also make that very transparent, because we must also be able to rely on each other to ensure that we are far enough away from that. Then you can finish and I think that is the right time to discuss the KB in the Second and First Chambers. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u127	That was the block of entry into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u128	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u129	That's also your last block, I guess, if I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u130	I'll be back at the DSO in a minute. That's not quite ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u131	So you weren't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u132	No, I wanted to finish DSO, but I think I have dealt with the entry into force sufficiently. As far as the DSO is concerned, I would like to make a comment on the BIT opinion in the direction of Mr Janssen. He asked if that's ready, but it's not. It's not finished yet. I believe he linked it to a commitment from my replacement at that time, Mrs Van Veldhoven. Mr Janssen said it would be ready for the summer. It has been made as a request to BIT on our part, but the BIT is about its own planning and also has its own discretion. That is, of course, also about the breadth and depth of the research. So it's not ready yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u133	It has always been in the railway books, time tables and tables as "for the summer." This is about the expansion. My specific question was: is the BIT opinion ready, but the government's opinion, the appreciation of the government, is not yet ready? But if the BIT opinion isn't ready, we'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u134	That's right. It is exactly as Mr Janssen says it is. Mrs Kluit also had a question about the accessibility of nature in the DSO. That, I believe, was the question she asked. Of course, the DSO has several functions. This is both about being able to orientate you on what it is about, and about checking whether a permit or a notification is necessary and can then apply for it. That's the base. Those functions are available for the nature component at the time of entry into force. So in the DSO, all the rules in the national regulations and the provincial environmental regulations will become visible, also through the orientation function of the national provision DSO. A nature permit can also be applied for through the DSO, but you would say: we actually have a greater ambition than that. I think it is, especially in the realm and the county. We would prefer to have more information, more information. You would like to unlock that through the DSO, but that is not foreseen at the time of entry into force. This is something that could only happen after that, because we took the old 2017 BIT opinion to heart. After all, we want to do this ICT project carefully. This care means that we do not want to overload it at the front, but want to work in controlled steps. So we first develop the DSO to the basic level. This will allow the law to enter into force. Then you can enrich the law, if you know that the DSO is functioning well at basic level. At the time, I thought this was a very important recommendation from the BIT. That is why this additional information can only follow later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u135	This is a touch to the point that we have everything in order in terms of use, but not yet in terms of protection. This is about nature information in the DSO. I hear the Minister saying this hasn't been settled yet. But my question was more specific. It had previously been said that this was discussed with the provinces and other local authorities and that it would become part of the development process. Is that settled in that development now? I hear the Minister saying that it is not yet there on 1 January 2022, but what is the deadline for it to be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u136	I find that a difficult question, which I do not dare answer as one-two-three. I can say, of course, that we are already talking to the provinces about this development, what exactly it should look like and what exactly should be in it. The provinces have also made funds available for it, and so have I, by the way. So that it's in the crosshairs as a next step, I can promise now. However, at the moment I cannot say exactly when.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u137	We'll talk about that at the KB. The second question was about the privacy aspects. We've talked about that before. Can you tell us when we will hear more about this and how much we will have to assess these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u138	Mrs Kluit also asked that question in the first period. Let me start with what is. It is important that people know what applications for permits are in their own environment. Under the Environmental Act, the attention service remains, indicating which licence applications have been made. This can be found online at the moment. Interested parties can therefore respond to what is happening in their own environment. That's one. The development of the DSO includes the possibility to unlock information on granted permits and notifications under the Environmental Act. So there isn't yet. I think that is exactly what Mrs Kluit is referring to in order to look at the privacy aspects as well. That is what we will do at the moment that this is taken up under the elaboration of the development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u139	Mrs. Kluit, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u140	Do I hear the Minister say that we should not expect this before the date of 1 January 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u141	Yes, granted permits are part of the development. It is true, therefore, that this does not apply to the date of entry into force, but that will only be added later in the so-called development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u142	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u143	I have already answered Mr Rietkerk's question on money in the event of interruption. I hope that I have answered the questions raised in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u144	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, but only after the cathedral has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much to your Chamber for allowing us to discuss here today the draft Supplementary Decision on nature and the Supplementary Act on nature. With these proposals nature regulation is incorporated into the system of the Environment Act. As far as I am concerned, this is an important moment, because there are many challenges in this area. The members have talked about this in full, as well as about their personal emotions on this subject and sometimes their professional emotions, because that is also reflected in the contributions. I have to say that I agree with that. I recognize that nature, as you say here in full width, is something to protect and cherish, and that it does not always go naturally well. We all have a duty to pay attention to this and to ensure that safeguards are incorporated into the laws and regulations. I am sure that is precisely what we are doing with this Supplementary Act and the Supplementary Decision. It is not just about things like nitrogen, but there are many other factors that influence it, such as climate change, land use, drought, invasive exotics; all of them affect the quality of our nature. This requires an integrated approach, but unfortunately it also takes a long time. We didn't just sort it all out. I believe that was also Mrs Huizinga-Heringa's question that the transposition of the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act helps to protect nature. This also makes it clear that nature is an integral and essential part of the physical environment and also of the licensing process. Nature is therefore more fully involved in the integrated environmental visions, regulations and decisions of municipalities, provinces and the Empire than at present. In fact, I also hear the question here in broad terms: what about the level of protection? Is that gonna be okay? Is that protection still okay? Let me put it first: the transposition of nature legislation into the Environment Act must have absolutely no influence on the level of protection. He doesn't have it with this law either. I can assure you that the substantive framework of standards and the instruments remain the same. The powers also remain where they lie, mainly in the provinces. The Environmental Act is also based on participation. This is in line with my belief that the improvement of nature is not only a task for the Empire, for provinces or for other competent authorities, but also for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u146	The Minister says that this law does not affect the level of protection. But isn't that the problem we're dealing with right now? Last week we saw a report by the WNF, which shows that nature has never been so bad in the Netherlands. Do we not need much more protection than we have now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u147	I will come back to that later. Mrs Teunissen also asked this question. We're actually gonna look at a law that hasn't even been filed yet. We would then be looking through this law at a next law, namely the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement law. It has yet to be submitted to the two Chambers of the States-General. That law includes the discussion about the quality of nature, about the improvement of the quality of nature and about all the means used by the Cabinet. But it is well known that we have already outlined our commitment to this. He's got to get his hands on that law. The cabinet is going to make an extra 300 million a year on nature conservation, nature restoration and improvement. We are in the process of anchoring in the legislative proposal that there will be a reduction target for the reduction of nitrogen, which also includes an obligation to achieve results. Those are all things that are going to contribute to improving that nature. I agree with Mrs Teunissen that we really still have a problem there. What I just outlined is also a long-term issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u148	The Minister explains what the measures announced are. But we are dealing here with a system review. Over the past decades, we have seen that our system does not protect nature well. Now we have the opportunity to introduce a structural review. In the area of nature, we need a structural review. That, of course, is not what those announced measures are doing. They do contribute to the recovery of nature, but they are not embedded in the structure that we are about to establish together. So my question is: shouldn't there be a higher level of protection in the Environment Act, which we're moving forward with over the next few decades? Shouldn't we raise the level of protection in this rather than keep it equal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u149	I'm just trying to get a good picture of it here. What does this law do? This law converts the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. I don't want to trivialize it, but it's almost some kind of technical exercise. One law turns you into the other law, and then you have to look carefully at where you're putting all that in. You do this in order to ensure that nature and the matters associated with it are clearly invested in all those places around the authorisation, so that they are integrated into the consideration of the competent authorities and so that they know how to deal with it. Mrs Teunissen's question is more broad: is our nature generally sufficiently protected? I would like to have that discussion if we were to have the legislative proposal on nitrogen reduction and improvement of nature. We are really talking about the content of the government's approach and about nature conservation and improvement. I understand that Mrs Teunissen's political view is that we should do so already in this law. But what if this Chamber passes that law? Then, of course, it would also be included in the Environment Act, because that's where he gets to hang or hang? What exactly do you call that? "Hang in there," I think. So that becomes an integral part of the Environment Act. But once again, this will only happen once that law has been passed and after the debates have taken place in the First and Second Chambers. But technically, this is really a system discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u150	Mrs Teunissen, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u151	I understand we're having a technical discussion. At the same time, there is always a reason for a legislative proposal. The laws we've had so far to protect nature are consistent with a certain reality. But that reality is now seriously changing. More than ever, we are now concerned about the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis. So my question to the Minister is: does she think that this reform of the system should not be used to solve the major crisis we face?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u152	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u153	Does that mean more than occasional improvements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u154	I dispute that these are occasional improvements that the cabinet is working on. The cabinet has presented a comprehensive, long-term approach, which must be reflected in the laws and regulations. That is what we are doing now, as has just been mentioned. So I am not arguing that this discussion is still going on and that we still have some issues; on the contrary, that is what we are working on right now. But I would like to point out that this law, if adopted, would be the technical suspension in which that improved level could possibly be incorporated. That is the order of things; that is the system. I understand Mrs Teunissen's political view; she thinks it should be taken up right now. I would almost find it an encouragement for this Chamber to consider a law, if it is there, quickly, if it is of course included in the House of Representatives. But that is of course up to your Chamber how you want to deal with it. Mr. Chairman. I have just referred to the matters the cabinet is dealing with around nature. We're also setting up a program for nature. We have already made 250 million a year available for a natural bank to be set up and for a scheme for nature conservation and recovery. We are also working on the forest strategy, with the ambition of 10% more forest by 2030, which is about 37,000 hectares. We are working with the provinces to shape a program of nature in which we determine with each other what the goals are to improve nature, how we are going to do it and what resources are associated with it. Then let me look at the side, to Mr Recourt, because he had a rather fundamental question about it: how do you guarantee that the provinces will comply with agreements we make with each other to protect nature? Of course, we already have the system of the Natural Pact, which contains the agreements made by the Empire and provinces with the decentralisation of how we deal, for example, with the construction of the Netherlands Nature Network. Money is deposited annually into the Province Fund to achieve those goals, to reach those appointments. We're having administrative discussions with the provinces to see how they do it. They report to me on that. And through me it will get back to your Chambers, how they will shape the development of, for example, the nature network. The use of the new money that we intend to use for the nature programme will really be put into a programme form, in which we agree on the goals and also link the resources to the achievement of the goals. As a result, there is a much more direct relationship between the Empire and provinces with the additional goals that we are going to achieve. So that way, on the one hand, we maintain the administrative relationship, but we also pay close attention to achieving results with the means we use to achieve it. Mr. Chairman. I tried to make cubes, but the questions were so diverse, I only answered them per member of your Chamber. Sometimes there are some doubles, but most of the questions were also very specific. So I start with Mrs Kluit's question, which also went a bit over this law to look at the nitrogen law. She specifically asked why I did not choose to bring both legislative proposals to this Chamber at the same time, so that this Chamber could provide for both legislative proposals in coherence. Quite a lot has happened since this bill on the Supplementary Nature Act and the Supplementary Nature Act was submitted. This happened about a year and a half ago. Afterwards, the Council of State ruled on the failure to apply the PAS, the Programme Approach Nitrogen. This bill is "I've just called it "Of course, technically, it's just hanging from one side to the other, so from the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act. This does not mean that no new policy can be added to this later, quite the contrary. Mr Ollongren will know this even better, but I think that many policy intentions will eventually lead to the adaptation of the Environment Act. This can happen with the Supplementary Decision nature or with what is now before us. Should it be the case that the Chamber adopts a bill, this will be taken into account in the Environment Act. With that you can arrange the bail, if Mrs. Kluit wishes. I say to Mr Dessing that this bill is purely and exclusively about the conversion of the Wnb into the Environment Act. We have not yet submitted the nitrogen law. So it's going to have to go through all the rooms first. The current level of protection from the Wnb is taken over by the Environment Act. This continues the current situation. Mrs Kluit asked about the good state of conservation and how our current pace relates to the EU's proposal. Is there a lack of legislation here? We evaluate the conservation status every six years. This is reported and you can take note of this as a Chamber. The 2019 report shows that there are positive developments, but that on average nature in the Netherlands is not doing well enough. The conservation status of a large number of natural values is not yet favourable. This is why greater commitment is needed through robust and integrated nature policy. However, I do not share the fact that the legislation is inadequate. The legislative proposal, together with the draft decision, requires the necessary measures to achieve the favourable conservation status for the species and habitats of the Birds and Habitats Directives. The conservation objectives shall determine what is possible by area. This is then developed in the management plans. As Mrs Kluit herself pointed out, conservation is the lower limit. This must always be insured. You can't go down there. But there is often a need for improvement. We really need to take some serious steps in this area. The legislation guarantees what we must do. The main issue now is implementation and implementation. Once again, if things need to be designed more sharply, we will look at this, also in the proposal for a directive on nitrogen reduction and improvement of the environment. Mrs Kluit asks about the nature vision in relation to the environmental vision. She is afraid that converting the vision of nature into the vision of the environment will lead to a kind of dilution of the position of nature; so I have interpreted her words. The nature vision becomes part of the environment vision. This guarantees the integral part of the system for the living environment. The Environmental Law explicitly regulates the incorporation of the general environmental principles into nature vision, such as the precautionary principle, the principle of preventive action, the principle of priority action against environmental damage at source and the polluter pays principle. These are very important principles to ensure the quality and conservation of nature. It is important that this is done properly, because we have to improve the conservation status together where it is not yet in order. I can tell Mrs Kluit that she is not quite sure. I can make a commitment. Just now, Mr Ollongren also mentioned the issue of monitoring on top of the evaluation. She indicated that she would explicitly ask the independent evaluation committee to consider the nature component on how to shape the monitoring in an up-to-date manner. I would like to add one more thing. We already periodically monitor the state of nature. But I will also go around the provinces a year after the draft law enters into force to hear their experiences with the implementation of the system. Then the provinces themselves can indicate what works and what doesn't. Perhaps they are already seeing things where things are not going well in practice. I will therefore explicitly ask them to reflect on converting the nature vision into the environment vision. Then I can report to the Chamber whether nature in the provinces gets the place in the environmental vision that it should get. We have also made that explicit. This question came from several members. Mrs. Kluit had a question about it. Mr Rietkerk asked an explicit question about monitoring and assurance. I admit that I myself, or my successor, will take that lap along the fields to collect the experiences, apart from all the monitoring in relation to the state of nature, which the Chamber already receives. I take into account the explicit point of the conversion of the nature vision into the environmental vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u155	The provinces have translated the EHS spatially for several years. The good thing is that this now comes together in legislation, both in terms of spatial design and in terms of nature, but how does the cabinet view, because they are two ministers, the following? In my opinion, the sectoral translation of the management plans is not enough, because you need the spatial tools to organise perseverance. That is already on the agenda, according to the CDA Group's idea. You can see that the Ecological Main Structure, or national nature work, as it is now called, is quite rightly wider because you want to have robust connections, than the sectoral management plans, whether it is Natura 2000 or management plans that lie outside. So these are bigger plans. Is it true that it is precisely environmental legislation, or spatial instruments, that agreements can not only be made, for example through a lap along the fields, but also the results can be displayed, both by the regional authorities, provinces, but also by other governments, so that you can see whether or not it can be done, so that you can take a next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u156	Yes, we can do that already, because I have already made agreements with the provinces, in the sense that they report to me on the construction of the Dutch Nature Network. They do. But it does depend on who the county is accountable to. In the end, that's up to our own states. But we too have a certain responsibility. I have already named it, if only because we are going to set up a programme of nature in which we are going to look again at what is needed for it. In this context, we also want to make agreements and we want to see whether they are being complied with. I passed on the report from the provinces last year. I say honestly that it was then time to look for uniformity in reporting, but I think that in the coming years we can make better and better understand what the results are, again within the existing administrative relations. In this way, it is possible to learn from the Chambers at a rich level about the state of compliance with the agreements. We already have experience of this, but I believe that we will be able to shape this even better in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u157	Then there's a specific question. As far as sensitive areas, i.e. Natura 2000 sites, are concerned, there are years of national responsibility for measuring targets and results. Can the Minister state the state of play at the moment? Is it very differentiated? I respect the responsibilities of the co-governments. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u158	I would like to say that if anyone should have that, it is Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u159	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u160	I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u161	My question is sharp. There are already national targets for which the cabinet is responsible, for which you are responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u162	This certainly applies to the Natura 2000 sites. I have to report once every six years to the European Commission on the state of conservation. Then I must also have an insight into the realization of the goals. In the legislative proposal on nitrogen and environmental improvement that will come to your Chamber shortly, you will see that we have incorporated this monitoring closely into the law. When do we measure what? What are the obligations we already have to report to Brussels? How are we going to make it clear exactly how we deal with our nitrogen production each time, so that your Chamber can also know about it? In this way we try to give that a little more sharper shape, but I realize that it is a little flawed to talk about a law that is not yet there. We did write a letter in which we shaped the contours of the law. I can refer to what is included in it. I have a few more questions from Mrs Kluit, including the commitment to nature vision. In the case of Mr Rietkerk's interruption, I have already mentioned annual reports to the Chamber on the coherence of the NNN. The provinces now draw up annually with me the Progress Report Nature. You can see for yourself how we stand now. We are also making additional agreements, as I have just said to Mr Recourt. Then there is the specific question about tree cover in the outskirts and the division of roles between the provinces and the municipalities. This really is a decentralised power. I understand that there are indeed some questions about provinces and municipalities, especially those who have to apply for permits: what regime are you dealing with now? The rules relating to the wood stands outside the built-up area are unchanged in the Decree on activities living environment under the Environmental Act. In particular, the fact that municipalities, in addition to the Empire and the provinces, lay down rules on timber uprisings which concern not only the built-up area but also outside, leads to discussion between the various competent authorities. We have also looked at how it actually works in practice. Is the lack of clarity about the regulation leading to problems in practice? It has been found that this is the case in some places and that the rules per municipality can also be different. I understand they don't make much progress in some places. What I could do is to facilitate this conversation again and let's just see what it takes to get some clarity about this. I cannot go into the administrative responsibilities, because they lie where they lie, but I can see that sometimes there is some kind of ambiguity that makes the people who have to work with the rules no longer understand what the situation is. I'll see if I can play a mediation role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u163	Mrs Kluit, another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u164	Thank you for that, because that is exactly what I think is needed, namely that there is clarity about exactly how this lies. Can the Minister ensure that it is clear in time, i.e. before 1 January, so that it gets well into the DSO? Because there is also discussion about: who should record what? Can we do that before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u165	I'll see if I can do that by the end of this year. I cannot commit to results, in the sense that I manage to get away with all the dirt or unclearness everywhere. But I sometimes see the ambiguity that prevails. I would like to play a role in seeing how we can make that a little more insightful. I can report that to your Chamber before the end of the year. I believe that these were the questions raised by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Then I come to Mr Recourt's questions. He had a perceptive look. He said: how can the Minister at the same time agree with the CDA and agree with the PvdA? Of course, it's always amazing if you agree with the CDA and the PvdA at the same time... That's a joke, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, I see a great deal of consensus here in this Chamber. But it was specifically about the question: is there room at local level to make an assessment? Mr Recourt says: European directives are not negotiable, are they? That's actually what I hear him say. Still, they're both right. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. It is true what Mr Recourt says. The provisions contained in the Birds and Habitats Directives are the framework within which it should take place. That is not to be considered. You can't say: I'm just going to protect something a little less or a little more, because it's better for me. These are the frameworks within which the trade-offs must take place. But how you do that, of course there are choices and those choices can be considered at local level what the best consideration is to make. So I just think of it as some kind of cubes. Mr Recourt's block is firmly anchored at the bottom, and above that comes the block of Mr Rietkerk, who says: but we can also make choices in how we do that. In the end, they're both right. Mr Recourt asked whether the Natura 2000 sites should be Europe alone or whether the cabinet stood for them. I will only interpret his question for a moment, because he also asked whether the cabinet would now consider whether certain areas should no longer be regarded as safe. Mr Rietkerk has asked a lot of questions about this, so I will come back to him a little more explicitly. Let me be clear: these Natura 2000 sites belong not only to Europe, but to all of us and therefore to this cabinet. We also share the objectives that we have to maintain and improve biodiversity. They're essential in that. We are therefore not only protecting Natura 2000 sites. We also have our own Nature Network Netherlands and other areas, such as the national parks. As has just been said, we are now investing significantly more to improve those natural areas and also to reduce the pressure on those areas. The reason for looking specifically at Natura 2000 sites is the far-reaching scope of the specific protection regime of the Habitats Directive in this respect. In the suspension of the debate, I had a brief conversation with Mr Rietkerk and Mr Janssen. Mr Janssen and I have once stood at the Grevelingen together. The cabinet still has plans to invest heavily there to improve water quality and that is very much needed, because this Grevelingen is reasonably dead underwater. The point was that if we were to do that, there would have to be more fresh water in the Grevelingen and that would have an effect on the conservation of this plant: the greenery. Mr Janssen has just told me that he has had sleepless nights of it. Then you have the situation that you may not be able to maintain one plant in that place, while you can get a lot of rich nature back for it. That's quite a complicated discussion, because you're just trying to improve that nature and at the same time you have to protect something that doesn't go together in that place. I just want to see if I can get flexibility in the laws and regulations there, but above all in their application. I want to see if we can do better in another place, to make sure that we can bring nature back to full maturity in that place. These are very realistic dilemmas that we face. We are trying to do this in such a way that we keep the protection of the species and the habitat, while at the same time looking for flexibility in where this happens. Maybe it can be better in a different place than in the place that was first assigned. That's what the drill looks like. The reality is that I am talking to Europe about this. Europe says: first of all, show that you are making some improvement in your conservation and improvement across the board. I get that. Hence the programme we have set up to reduce nitrogen and strengthen and improve nature. If we can show that, we can also show it in Europe. We still need some flexibility in a number of places. In fact, I have already answered a question from Mr Rietkerk. I have also dragged Mr Janssen into my reply, but I think he was allowed to do so. Mr Recourt asked about legal protection. Can I outline what forms are available there if it is suspected that the overall balance of interests does not take sufficient account of nature's interests? He also mentioned a specific province in which he had concerns about whether that would be okay. It is good to stress that the objectives of the specific protection rule under the Nature Protection Act as they currently apply remain unchanged if we do so under the Environment Act. However, the general objectives of the Environmental Law are supplemented at one point, namely the intrinsic value of nature. Mr Recourt has already referred to this. The general objectives relating to the protection and development of the living environment are seen in the whole domain of the physical environment and are therefore rather general. Specifically for nature, the Supplementary Nature Act also includes provisions in the Environmental Law on the subjects to be regulated, inter alia in order to satisfy European rules, but also for the purposes for which those rules are drawn up. In doing so, the powers are framed in the same way as before. This bill doesn't change that. Mr Recourt mentioned the examples of housing and a Formula 1 race. The current territorial and species protection provisions will also apply to this. In substance, that doesn't change. I would like to point out that these licences were issued under the current regime, the Wnb. This means that it will soon be necessary to assess whether significant impacts can be expected for a Natura 2000 site and whether strictly protected species may be at stake. If so, an environmental permit for a Natura 2000 activity and an environmental permit for a flora and fauna activity will soon have to be applied for under Article 5.1 of the Environmental Act. The scope of the substantive assessment remains the same as it is now. If the environmental permit is rejected, then, as at present, it must be justified how those frameworks are applied. Eventually, of course, the corridor to the judge can always be made if there is a difference of opinion about whether that has happened properly. But the frameworks remain. I come to the decision room outside the guidelines. Mr Recourt asks: how big is that space? For Natura 2000 sites, wild birds under the Birds Directive and strictly protected species under the Habitats Directive, the strict protection framework of those Directives applies. In short, therefore, 'no, unless' applies to essentially harmful acts. That is the case now, and it will continue to apply. Furthermore, there are species of which we have said together under the Nature Protection Act that they must have basic protection against human action, even though they are not directly covered by those prohibitions. Mammals, amphibians and reptiles are not allowed to be killed or caught and you cannot simply damage or destroy their breeding and resting places. We also need to include some basic bans for certain plants and animal species not directly protected by the directives, such as dragonflies and butterflies, in the case of endangered species which benefit from a ban against harmful human action. Here too, the principle of "no' remains valid for these species, so that protection remains unchanged. However, the scope for consideration is slightly larger, as there are more grounds for derogation from the prohibitions than under the directives, i.e. in relation to the European directives, for example the general basis of the public interest. But there must always be no danger of a sustainable survival of the population and no real alternative to the action. In short, here too, in all these places we simply do not take away from the current regime and that the change is translated into the Environment Act. The Environment Act thus also applies to non-protected species on the basis of the European directives the no-unless there is scope for harmful acts, just as now there is scope for the implementation of the "unless." Then there's the report from the Remkes Committee. Mr Recourt asks whether I am going to accept this in its entirety and what comes of it in the legislative proposal. As has already been said, that is of course another look at a legislative proposal that is yet to come. The cabinet has already sent a short first appreciation with what it would like to amend the law on. This relates in particular to the obligation to produce results and to see how, in a certain way, we can also stimulate housing a little better than we are at the moment. I will send a broader appreciation of the report of the Remkes Committee in September. Then your Chamber will also receive a copy of that appreciation and you will be able to take note of it. Mr Recourt also asks whether I can say again how the obligation to maintain a favourable conservation status is respected from the start of the decision-making process and how legal protection can be sought at the end of the decision-making process. Achieving the favourable conservation status is a result obligation under the Habitats Directive. The Netherlands is committed to that. For each Natura 2000 site, conservation targets have therefore been formulated which indicate the contribution of each specific site to achieving that favourable state. That is laid down in a designation decision of each area. Those conservation targets per site shall also be included in the authorisation. Projects with potentially negative effects will only be authorised if it has been demonstrated that this does not prevent the achievement of conservation objectives. In this way, the favourable conservation status is also firmly enshrined in the decision-making process. As I said, I report every six years on this conservation status to the European Commission. We are going to work, later on with the new bill, to bring that favourable conservation status ever closer. Then there is Mr Recourt's question as to what goes wrong if we do not pass this law. That is my brief summary: what will be the situation? If that happens unexpectedly, it will not be possible for the Environmental Act to enter into force in good time. Then the Nature Protection Act will continue to apply as a separate law. But that also means that the system of the Environment Act does not meet the objective of providing a covering scheme for the entire physical environment in which all relevant facets of that environment are addressed, each with specific frameworks and guarantees. And the specific nature values covered by the Nature Protection Act are apparently not seen as an essential part of that physical environment, but as something that is still separate from the rest of the physical environment. I would regret that, I say, because I think there is a risk that these natural values will not be fully involved in policy and decision-making immediately, and that it will only become apparent at a later stage whether or not a particular development is possible, with all possible frustration, but also the risk of saying: look at what can be done. You're gonna get pressure on that again if you've already gone through that whole process and you're gonna have to figure it out at the end. The system will also not become easier, as many so-called "bypasses" will then be needed to allow the Nature Protection Act and the Environment Act to work separately from each other. In short, I do not think it will be easier for the competent authorities and the licence applicants. I do not believe that this will secure nature more strongly in that whole process. And it will also be a very complex exercise, which I hope we will also assess in the implementation whether it is feasible for the competent authorities or not. Those were Mr Recourt's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u166	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, I appreciate that very much. I sat down for a while until you finished the whole block of my question. I thought, "What's the overarching question?" For the Minister's basic statement is: it is actually a technical exercise; we are going to achieve ambitions in nature policy in a different way. Next, on my question about the Remkes Committee, she raised the question of whether the whole proposal would be accepted, but that was not my question. My question was: the Remkes Committee says that the Minister should be given more powers to give instructions to the provinces in question, in addition to the possibility of tightening up the frameworks, if implementation is not carried out within the framework set out. In short, Remkes says: in the area of nitrogen, the Minister should be able to take more direction and give clues. And I've been trying to extrapolate it to the whole of nature. Because the Minister has said 'we have a natural pact' and 'we are in consultation' and so on, and as a Empire, of course, you have the standard possibilities to intervene if local authorities were not to function, but the idea of Remkes is: sharp on those central management options. I would like the Minister to reflect on that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u167	We have, of course, had a few years ago, and I believe that Mr Recourt's party was also in the cabinet at the time. That was then a conscious choice, also to bring nature closer to the competent authorities who, of course, have to deal with it directly. It is true, and I admit it, that the best thing to do is to look at how to do it with the commitments I have, especially for Natura 2000 sites. But you also want the agreements we make with each other to be kept. But, of course, we also have ordinary administrative relations with each other, and I do not want to say that I have the intention of simply amending the Constitution in order to make changes to it. But this decentralization does mean that you set up a lot of things on the basis of administrative agreements and administrative consultations. At the end of the day, I have a designation authority, that's right, but that's not the first thing you want to start with when you're gonna make appointments with each other. I actually heard Mr Recourt say something like: do you have enough in your hands to shape this? Well, that would, I think, justify another level of discussion: what do you think of the decentralisation of nature policy? Because if you really want to do this purely, then you should go back to centralization; then you really have control and you can just direct directly on what needs to be achieved. I do not yet hear Mr Recourt say that, perhaps he will be able to give a ruling on this later. But if you're working in a system where you've decentralised things, you're gonna have to focus first and foremost on agreements you make with each other and keep them. What I just said: in the Nature programme that we are shaping, we want to keep that a little closer to us, in the sense that we make agreements and link the money to it; so don't give the money to the provinces, so that the provinces themselves can go back to it. But it's also going to be a while to find out how we're going to do that exactly right. We're dealing with these administrative relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u168	Mr Recourt, a brief supplementary question because there are many interruptions. I'll have to suspend at 6:15 in connection with an LNV meeting. Dinner break will take place from 6.15 p.m. to 7 p.m. The intention was actually to be done with this deadline at 6.15 p.m. If that doesn't work, we'll continue at 7:00. Interrupts are really for short questions. Your reactions to the Minister can be given in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u169	Mr President, I am doing my best. I just saved up all my questions for one interruption. Yes, it is true that the Labour Party also supported the decentralisation movement. We did that on the assumption that the province knows how to offer more customization than the Empire. But there is now a change of heart in my mind, not only in my party, because of the extra ambition of nature conservation and nature expansion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u170	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u171	My question is: if you want to use this change, which also signals the Remkes Committee, shouldn't you take part in the central idea that the province knows better in the execution, or at least the ability to intervene and set standards, towards you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u172	The idea that we generally do not set standards goes a little far. In the case of nitrogen, the Empire itself has a goal that we want to lay down in the law. So that is really a goal that we as a Empire set. We ourselves, as the Empire, are taking measures to achieve that goal. This does not mean that additional measures should not be taken at decentralised level. If you want to grant a certain permit in a particular area, you will have to show that it does not lead to deterioration of the conservation status. No matter what purpose I set, all the provinces have been kept to that fact. Provinces can grant permits if they can show that this new activity leads to mitigation or even a far-reaching reduction of nitrogen. A province has been kept to that. Every competent authority will have to prove that. Otherwise, a licence is no longer valid. But the whole fundamental discussion as to whether the Empire should be given more powers... I'm dealing with the system we're in right now. That's where I'm looking for maximum space. I can imagine that a number of parties will raise this question again in an election campaign, if I understand Mr Recourt so well. Mr. Chairman. I'll try to speed up. Mrs. Moonen had a very nice introduction. I didn't know she herself was the one who was "what was it?" The European Union has set up a federation for young people and nature. I hear now that the union was also Christian. Yeah, that part really appealed to me, too. Mrs. Ollongren says: that's surprising. Well, I don't think that's surprising. But it indicates Mrs Moonen's involvement and emotion in the subject. That's good and good. Mrs Moonen asked how I can ensure the favourable state of conservation: is the guarantee that we will work there in this Environment Act? That favourable conservation status is anchored in the system of the Environmental Act. That is what this supplemental trail provides for. The bill of amendment Nature Environment Act adds that the provinces have a task to preserve or restore animal and plant species, in accordance with international law obligations. In addition, the provinces should ensure that measures are taken for Natura 2000 sites, in accordance with the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. So it's already been secured in the system. I actually hear Mrs Moonen say the following. There are now results obligations for nitrogen in the Nature Protection Act. How do they, when the law will be passed again, it's all a bit hypothetical, but suppose it's passed over to the Environment Act? I think that's a fair question. She also asked: will that then become a natural value that you must pursue? I can promise you this. If that bill were to be adopted again, Mr Dessing: should it be possible for me to include it in this Supplementary Act as a natural value in the field of nitrogen ambitions. I think that answers Mrs Moonen's question. She said: it can be with water, with air and so on. In the field of nitrogen, I can then convert that provision into natural value in the Environmental Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u173	I would like to understand you, because this is an important point for D66. So you're actually saying that if we come to an environmental value in that law on nitrogen reduction and nature protection, which has its impact on nature, also towards the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u174	Yeah, for nitrogen. I would like to make it quite specific: it is an environmental value for nitrogen. Because that law regulates the result obligation we introduce for nitrogen. For nature, there has been a specific amendment in the House of Representatives asking for it. That amendment was rejected, but I had given the "judgement chamber." I cannot ensure that anything from an amendment that has been rejected in the House of Representatives comes back into the law here. I can make a commitment in the context of the debate on nitrogen: the reduction that we introduce into the law for this can be translated into the Environment Act if that law is passed. Then there's the result obligation. When can this commitment be incorporated into the legislation? We are now in the process of changing the law. That law was first in consultation, but we are now adapting it, partly on the basis of the opinion of the Remkes Committee. I intend to send it to the Council of State before the summer. When that law comes exactly here, it also depends a bit on the pace in the House of Representatives. Can I promise that the Remkes Committee's opinion on the progress monitor will be taken on board? In any case, I intend to report to Parliament every two years on the progress and consequences of the measures to be taken in the programme on nitrogen reduction and improvement. If the monitoring shows that there is a need for a kind of modified programme, for example because the reduction target for 2030 is otherwise at risk, I will update the programme and let your Chamber know it. I will update the programme every six years anyway, because then we can look forward to the goals that we are going to get afterwards. I have just said a few words in interruption with Mr Recourt about the guarantee with the provinces. Then there's the nature compensation. Mrs Moonen had a number of specific questions about this. She said that according to the Decree general rules spatial planning nature compensation should not take place within the Nature Network Netherlands. That's not right. Under the Decree general rules on spatial planning, nature compensation may also take place within the Netherlands Nature Network. It doesn't rule it out, and that's the right thing to do. I think it was Mr Rietkerk who gave an example of this. Sometimes it can be very useful to let it take place there. You may have nature, but not yet at the level you think "well, we'll get a little further with that." Then that compensation can lead to you giving that extra push to it. In the end, the point should be that the result counts. The provinces must ensure that quality, surface and coherence of the Dutch Nature Network are maintained at all times. They also draw up rules for this. The same applies to the timeliness of nature compensation. By the way, the policy framework means that almost all nature compensation will take place outside the Nature Network Netherlands at the moment, but eventually it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u175	Mrs Moonen with a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u176	It may not exclude it as a last resort, but in principle you also indicate that in the last part of your response you do not compensate within the Nature Network Netherlands, at most as a closing point. I was concerned to continue that line of policy neutrally in this Supplementary Nature Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u177	I find that too restrictive, because I really see opportunities for it to take place in Nature Network Netherlands, where that nature can really get a boost. We would therefore rule that out, and that would really be a pity, because then you can make that extra improvement, and that cannot be because we have limited it here. As you can see, in practice, things are not going so fast, but I wouldn't want to rule out the possibility either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u178	I'm not asking for total exclusion. I ask for a consistent line of how things are now arranged. This is about policy-neutral transposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u179	It is politically neutral, because we are not changing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u180	Mrs. Moonen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u181	I understand you're saying it's okay now. It can now be quite sporadic and that is what the practice is doing. I am concerned that we are not now going to do so much more often and more frequently with a new law. I want us to turn it into policy-free and policy-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u182	It's already allowed. Now there's no ground on which it's not allowed, and then there's no land on which it's not allowed. I'm just saying, in practice, it's not a storm yet. In terms of legislation and regulation, we are doing exactly what we had before. How do we ensure that damage to the Netherlands Nature Network is compensated in a timely and adequate manner? The Bkl provides that the provinces must ensure by their rules that activities with adverse consequences for the Nature Network can only be authorised if those adverse effects are also compensated in good time. That really lies with the provinces and they will have to prove that it is. Then Mrs Moonen explicitly asks about Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion, then MP Van Veldhoven, about involving nature organisations in assessing the quality of compensation. There too, the responsibility lies with the provinces. After all, they are also about nature compensations. They also have more insight into the field-specific situation and the field of social forces on the ground. My experience is that nature organisations do come forward when they think things are happening that are not quite right. So I'm assuming that's what happens at provincial level. I look at Mr Rietkerk with a slanted eye, but he is not yet responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u183	I'm just gonna take a look at the members. We have a lot of interruptions. You are supposed to give your response to the Minister in the second term and use any interruptions for short supplementary questions. I'm not going to allow any more interruptions, because we're about to have dinner break. I suggest that we continue with this term afterwards. Later in the evening we arrive at the second term of the Chamber and the second term of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u184	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Klip made a very clear contribution. I just had the feeling that from the practical point of view she brought in some knowledge about how nature is being dealt with and the integral consideration. Let's not pretend that's new. That consideration is, of course, already taking place in everything we are doing. We're gonna make it better with this law, in our opinion. In the light of a number of reports that have now been published, from the PBL, from Wageningen University, as well as yesterday's Rli report, she asks how we can ensure that nature becomes more resilient and robust. Do we have enough brackets in the law, she actually asks. I very much agree with Mrs Klip that we need a more resilient and robust nature. Our approach is also aimed at making some 3 billion extra available in the coming years. Those resources should contribute to this. For example, the hook that Mrs Klip is asking for is the environmental plan. The environmental plan will be about the entire physical environment. It is not just about spatial planning and building, but also about the environment and nature. This opens another door for combining nature development with all kinds of other developments. For example, Mrs Klip mentioned housing. I think it is of the utmost importance that governments, waterboards and all kinds of actors look at smart and creative opportunities to connect these kinds of challenges. The instrument of the programme at the level of concrete measures within the framework of the National Environment Vision can also be used to make such agreements and make them coherent. I'll give you another response to the Rli report. We will see how we can approach the issues more comprehensively. The reports give a lot of insight. Sometimes we all need to get it together. I will try to do that in response to the report. You will, of course, be sent a copy of this. Mrs Klip also asks about the tension between the Birds and Habitats Directives and the natural dynamics. I have just mentioned the example of the Grevelingen. A number of other examples have just been mentioned. How are the discussions on this in Europe going? As I said just now, we are trying to get flexibility in the frameworks where it is obvious that we can achieve goals better in a different way. We are now supporting all kinds of cases, so that we can show the Commission where that makes sense. In this way, we are trying to make the Commission understand where that profit is. At the Grevelingen we have that sort of thing now. We have been able to convince the Commission that in this respect it makes more sense to protect that particular plant in another place, because it offers more opportunities for nature development in the Grevelingen. We must, of course, show that this brings the favourable state of conservation closer to that species as well. We still have to do our homework for that. That's what we're doing right now. If we can show progress in this, I hope that the Commission will be inclined to give greater flexibility to this. Can a Natura 2000 site also be designated without the need to achieve targets, because it can be better elsewhere? We are looking at Natura 2000 sites with supposedly strategically localising how to achieve the favourable state of conservation. In doing so, you will see which areas of improvement can best be realised. So those are the areas with the greatest chance of success, I'll say. Achieving or maintaining the favourable conservation status is an objective that applies at national level. Natura 2000 sites contribute to achieving that objective. When nature 2000 areas are designated, it should also be clear what objectives are to be achieved there. Otherwise, you will have a Natura 2000 site without being clear what objective you are going to pursue. So that's really connected. So you have the designation decision for the Natura 2000 site, and then the targets. This must also be reflected in the management plans, so as to clarify what needs to be done about them. I do not know of a Natura 2000 site where no targets are clear. Of course, we are going to see if certain goals can be better achieved in other places if we really do not have a chance of success in such an area. I was just referring to that. Does the Natural Environment Act provide sufficient assurance and clarity, also for the continuation of national and international agreements at a lower level? I think it is precisely the Natural Environment Act that is going to provide more tools for this at local level. Instructions are also included to lay down rules for the implementation of those international obligations, in particular the Birds and Habitats Directives, by general measure of governance. This is also in line with the national agreements in the Nature Management Agreement and the Nature Pact, including those on the division between the Empire and provinces of responsibilities and powers. I am convinced that these things, precisely by making this translation into the Environmental Act, are more insightful. We will, of course, have discussions with the competent authorities, if there is any doubt about this, in order to remove that ambiguity. But we have already regulated it as much as possible in the rules we have laid down. Those were Mrs. Klip's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u185	Then, Minister, this seems to me to be a physiological moment, I would almost say, in order to introduce a cesorship in the form of dinner break, also because there is a meeting of the LNV committee at 6.15 p.m., where a number of spokesmen have to go. I shall therefore suspend the sitting until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u186	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill of addition to the Natural Environment Act and of the letter of the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality of 6 September 2019 to offer the draft Supplementary Nature Environment Act. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just answered Mrs Klip's questions and now come to Mr Rietkerk's questions. He had a more general argument at first. He wondered whether we should not even consider whether we should be more on target requirements rather than on all kinds of middle rules. He cited a number of people, including a former director of State Forest Management who was also sg at the Ministry of LNV, who could thus know it from both sides. In addition, Mr Rietkerk asked me to respond to that opinion. I understand Mr Rietkerk's plea. I think we really need to look on a case-by-case basis at how you are going to bring the goals closer and what this means for the standards you set. For example, for the Dutch Nature Network, a target regulation has been included in the Decree quality living environment for the provinces. The provinces thus have every opportunity to regulate how this result is achieved, as long as the size, coherence and quality of the network are assured. I have already mentioned Mr Recourt's cubes. It's also a matter of determining the duty of care. This can also be seen as a kind of target regulation. Indeed, it does not prescribe exactly how this is to be achieved, but rather that it should be taken into account. Some standards are prescribed European as such. We do not have much room for manoeuvre. So you're just gonna have to use it. Sometimes there is also a need for security. Of course, that's the other side. If you make it open, there can also be a lot of discussion about exactly how to do it. Sometimes, too, if you want to apply for a grant with financial consequences, you will of course also prescribe what exactly needs to be achieved. But I agree with Mr Rietkerk in general that we should not lose sight of too much detail. However, we need to anchor the targets properly, and we do. Mr Rietkerk also asks what it means, if you look at climate change, for the different functions you have. Shouldn't we be looking at that more flexibly? That is in fact in line with Mrs Klip's speech, which, with that intention, also asked that question. I have explained how we operate with the European Commission and where we see that it is necessary. So we need to show that we are actually taking a number of steps forward. Mr Rietkerk asked how it works strategically at national level. Strategic localisation works at national level because the beneficial conservation status is pursued at national level. Achieving that favourable conservation status has been translated into national targets at national level. It also takes into account the international task of the Netherlands, for example in cross-border populations. So we are looking at this with a European view. They are national targets and we must continue to translate them into how we will maintain and protect them. Mr Rietkerk referred to the nature objectives system developed in the late 1990s and asked: how can it be that only after twenty years can we see the reorientation and actualization? The Natura 2000 targets were only achieved in the years 2006-2013. At the moment I am working on the actualisation of the Natura 2000 targetssystem. The first phase was completed and sent to the House of Representatives in April. Updating the targets for areas is an ongoing process, which is also in line with the management plan processes. The actualisation has no direct significance for the nitrogen approach. The nitrogen approach focuses on the nitrogen-sensitive habitats present in protected areas. That doesn't change with a change in the target system. In relation to the problem of nitrogen, a review of the Natura 2000 sites is carried out. It will be completed in the summer of this year. This review shall also consider whether there are areas which are structurally weak due to their size or location, whether there is a need for a reclassification and whether the strict protection regime is applied only to habitats for which it is necessary under the European Directives. I just had a discussion with Mrs Klip about this. Can I promise that we will define more clearly what conservation objectives or improvements are in the evaluation of nature objectives? I can promise. It looks at how we can clarify the conservation targets. Mr Rietkerk asked in an interruption, but also in his contribution, or I can promise that there will be a policy-neutral translation of the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. I can confirm that. The decentralisation that was carried out at the time with the first decentralisation impulse and with the Nature Protection Act in terms of competences for species protection and timber uprisings is also a starting point for the system of the Environment Act. Nothing's changed in the supplemental trail. Then there's the trade-off room. Mr Rietkerk asked whether there was really room for consideration, for example in the case of an improvement or enlargement target. The achievement of conservation targets in areas can be phased out as necessary. The choice of conservation measures may take place in consultation with landowners, nature organisations and local residents. The government wants to speed up the pace of this natural recovery, especially in order to get out of the nitrogen problem. That's win-win, you might say. Nature recovery is also needed to enable new developments. That's why I work with the provinces on the Nature programme, which focuses on nature restoration and connecting with other policy challenges. Mr Ollongren mentioned just now that more functions should actually be integrated into nature. That is also the government's approach. It is not just a question of organising nature in the nature reserves, but of becoming an integral part of all kinds of functions: living, working and agricultural nature management. We're going to see in many more places how we can make smart connections between functions and nature, so that it doesn't become a very isolated whole. The PBL also says that in this way we can actually contribute to the achievement of the conservation objectives. In this context, Mr Rietkerk had a justified comment on the importance of, for example, connecting zones and buffers. He said they can contribute to the quality of such a nature reserve. Sometimes you are very busy in such a nature area to raise the quality itself, while via a buffer or a connection that increases quality is much faster to realize. I very much agree with him. That is precisely the approach of the Nature programme that I am preparing with the provinces. We need to look smartly at how we can increase the quality of such an area by applying these kinds of things. If you just keep focusing on that one area, you sometimes have to invest a lot, while at other points there is much faster results to achieve. We're gonna take a good look at that, too. I liked Mr Rietkerk's statement on agricultural nature management. He said: is it nature-inclusive agriculture, or agricultural inclusive nature? Actually, the word doesn't really matter to me. We understand what it is: here too you need to see how to integrate those functions with each other. There are incredibly good examples of this. I speak to farmers who are already working very actively on this, for example through the agricultural collectives. We are now in the process of revising the common agricultural policy in Europe. One of the options in it now is to fund those collectives. We have fought very hard to make this possible in the new policy. The discussion has not yet been concluded, but as I see it now, so can we. In these collectives the knowledge and skills are present with the farmers. They try to apply this to their own operations and to their own fields and pastures. In this way, they can really contribute to the recovery of nature. They therefore receive a management fee from the provinces. I think that's the way we're going to find it. So I very much share that with Mr Rietkerk. Of course, he has very specific knowledge about the situation in the province of Overijssel. I have less of them, I must say, but I believe him immediately when he tells me how things went with the karekite and the rudder. He's asking if I can't see if that can be compensated in another place right now. He's also talking about salading in that connection. How do I judge that? The compensation of Natura 2000, which is done according to the so-called ADC test, can provide a good opportunity for plans and projects of great social importance to continue when negative impacts on Natura 2000 cannot be ruled out and there are no better alternatives. There are a number of major projects where that has happened. The C stands for compensation and so you have to compensate for the same status in that Natura 2000 area. That can turn out to be net positive for nature. Mr Rietkerk has given a few examples of this. As a cabinet, we also intend to set up a nature bank to facilitate this for projects of the Empire and waterboards. These are national infrastructure and water security projects and defence projects with a security interest. In this way we can shape and build nature more structured. You don't have to look at each project every time where to make the compensation happen. If you do it more integrated, it can also provide more robust nature. However, we have to look carefully at the fact that this compensation nature does not in itself lead to other issues relating to nitrogen problems. That is, of course, the other side: if you compensate, you must also be able to offer the same status of protection. This can, of course, trigger discussions in such an area. So we're still working on that. We look very closely at these kinds of consequences and how we deal with them. Then Mr Rietkerk asked if I could undertake to ask for a decision from the Deputy States and also to inform the People's Assembly in the Provincial States of the process of bordering Natura 2000 sites. Limiting Natura 2000 sites is my responsibility. The Deputy States and the Provincial States cannot decide on this. That really is a competence that lies at national level. The Natura 2000 sites are already designated and limited, except for a few. We were quite smooth with that, in a European context. This was done at the time in close consultation with the relevant provinces, mostly after the management plans were drawn up. If border changes are at issue in existing areas, I will of course go back in consultation with the provincial colleagues, because that is where the impact is felt. My experience is that colleagues in the province are also well able to organise the coordination within the province. That is how I see the coordination and cooperation. In formal terms, the power lies with me; I always do so in coordination with the province and the province then informs the State again. Mr Rietkerk asked me another question. Suppose the province indicates that the achievement of the Natura 2000 targets is unfeasible and priceless. How am I gonna deal with that? I have just explained that it is possible to strategically locate the sites of Natura 2000 if it turns out to be the bottleneck that the desired improvement is better achieved in another area. The provinces and I are obliged to prevent any deterioration and to ensure that what is already there is preserved. Then we'll look at what it takes to make it better. If the situation is that there are insufficient technical possibilities to prevent even deterioration, then we obviously need to look for other solutions. Mr Rietkerk mentioned two specific examples. I've already gone into Grevelingen. He also asked about the Wierdenen Field. I know that the province at the Wierdene Veld is looking at the different scenarios. We are also actively thinking about this from our department. But should it happen that this has to go to the European Commission, I must do so well. I can't touch it and say, we've looked at it again and we're gonna do it differently. If that is the scenario, then you have to be incredibly supportive, because we have to ensure that the favourable conservation status can be achieved in other places. So it really takes some time and effort to take a good look at that. We were just talking about dilemmas; there are sometimes dilemmas in them and this is one of them. I'm a little reluctant to say "we're gonna take care of that" right now, because then I really have to support the case very well and also show that we can compensate for that nature in another place. That's not easy, I'm just saying. We're talking about bogs. That is not to such a degree present in the Netherlands that we can easily achieve it in another place. But we are actively thinking, also with the provinces, about how to proceed with this. I shall then turn to Mr Rietkerk's last question, because I would have had the round right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u188	You can deal with the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u189	Yes, it's about monitoring and about Nature Network Netherlands. The provinces direct on the realization of the Dutch Nature Network, including through the Subsidiestelsel Natuur en Landschap, the SNL. The certified nature managers receive a subsidy for the realisation of nature types included in the provincial nature management plans. A comprehensive monitoring system is also attached to the SNL. The Ecological Monitoring Network can also be used. A generic framework has also been established for this through the joint provincial implementation organisation BET12, thus facilitating the clarity of monitoring. And as mentioned earlier, we draw up an annual Progress Report on Nature, in which the progress of the Dutch Nature Network is reported. In addition, the PBL, the Planning Agency for the Environment, delivers its Learning Evaluation Natural Pact every three years, which we also involve in the monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u190	Mr. Rietkerk, do you have a short supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u191	Yes. The question is specifically about the willingness of the minister in the complexity surrounding the Wierdene Veld. I have one supplementary question on that. Suppose there are good reports at the ministry, at the county and at the municipality, and that the city council says "it's incompatible and we're going for water extraction" and the province says "it's incompatible and we're going for the blue course." I ask the Minister whether she is prepared, with this well-founded information, to assume her responsibility from this complexity, particularly for that area, because nature cannot be improved and restored there. Then we, as CDA, would prefer to do so by strategically locating it in another place. It's not gonna be easy, but I'm gonna need something more than a trial answer and the idea of being sent with a brat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u192	It's not my intention to send you into the reeds with a brat. I hope I never do. The question here is above all: where else can you achieve these natural values, these conservation goals? It's not easy here, I'm just saying. That's the complex thing about the Wierdense Veld case. Hoogveen is not present to such a degree that you can easily realize this in another place. If you're gonna do this, you're gonna have to back it up real good. As has been said, we are actively thinking about this, but I would like to be a little reluctant to say that we are going to do so. Actually, I'm gonna have to fly it in a different way. If we can well justify that the conservation targets can be achieved in another place, then we will look at them. We only do that in that order. I cannot say: we do not want it, because we choose water extraction. Then I promise something that may not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u193	Then I ask you to do expectation management with respect to time. I'm not gonna pin you down in a month. This has been studied for years. It's complicated. Can the Minister indicate whether the end of the dark tunnel is in sight at the end of this year, including for nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u194	Allow me to return to that in the second term. It's not unwillingness, but I don't want to imagine things here that I might not be able to live up to. I do think I should be careful here. Allow me to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u195	Minister, I'd like to do some expectation management. We're halfway through the speakers now. It's been an hour and a half. Of course, that is not a problem, but I warn the Members of Parliament that it will be much later than planned tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u196	I think that the other questions can go a little faster, because many of the issues have already been raised by the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u197	Well, at least everybody knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u198	Of course, I want to do justice to the other Members, but I think they have already heard a number of answers that appear to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u199	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u200	Then I come to Mr Van Dijk. He has questions about the hunt. I would have expected more hunting questions to come, but Mr Van Dijk certainly did not allow the preparation to be for nothing, let me put it this way. He specifically asks why the grey geese and the goose are not on the wild list. We make international agreements on the management of the gray goose and the goblin. In order to give substance to this, a planned management is desirable. That's the best way to do justice to both the population and the damage approach. This can also be done in the Netherlands through the system of fauna management plans to be approved by provinces and subsequent exemptions. The latter also provides for monitoring and, where appropriate, enforcement. When geese are placed on the wild list, there is no prior or subsequent control of the effects of hunting on the population. That is an obligation under the European Birds Directive. It is also difficult to observe the international agreements of the AEWA. That's the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migration Waterbirds. Apologies for all the abbreviations. I would also like to point out that the Canadian goose is on the national exemption list. For this species of geese there is therefore no need for an exemption for discharge. Mr Van Dijk asks what the criteria are for the wild list. These are the criteria: they must be edible and/or harmful species, the conservation status must be good at national level and the conservation status must not be endangered by hunting. I have already indicated that due to international agreements the geese are not eligible for inclusion on the wild list. As mentioned above, however, provinces have the possibility to designate animal species causing damage in parts of the country, such as geese, in their provincial regulations and to grant exemptions to land users in order to combat the harmful species. So you really apply customization. Mr Van Dijk also asked about the priorities in the draft decision. In fact, we have already included this, because the priorities for the Natura 2000 sites are determined by the formulation of the conservation objectives for the Natura 2000 sites. This is precisely what is happening in the Ministerial Designation Decision for the individual Natura 2000 site. In the Decision quality living environment, the present draft Supplementary Decision introduces a new article, Article 3.20. This includes the mandate to at least include the conservation objectives required under the Birds and Habitats Directives. These should be re-developed in the Natura 2000 site management plans. This is accompanied by a further prioritisation: what do we do, in what size, and when do we do it? Those management plans are generally drawn up by the provinces, with the involvement of site managers and other parties in and around the area. Sometimes when we as the Empire are responsible or the authority, we do. So it is precisely through this step-by-step that priority is being given to management plans. Mr Van Dijk specifically asks about the passage in the coalition agreement on comparative law research. He also asked whether we were looking at what was going on abroad, for example what was said in the Bundesverfassungsgericht. In any case, we in the Netherlands must abide by the judgments of the national courts. I hope that Mr Van Dijk will agree. I see him nodding. I'm happy about that. In this case, that's the Council of State. Even if judgments of a judge in another country may point a different direction, that cannot be taken up nationally. I really have to relate to the judgments of in this case the administrative judge, the highest judge at the Council of State. Then you can look at what is happening in another country, but that does not have much power of expression in that sense because in our country the national courts apply. Moreover, it differs from country to country how the Habitats Directive is implemented. Those differences are often in the details. The comparative research can provide insights, but because the granting of permits in neighbouring countries is really different from ours, it is not always possible to put things side by side and then say: boy, why do we do things differently now? We have already had the debate on nitrogen. We were talking about thresholds that apply in other countries, but our judge points out that they do not apply in this way. Mr Van Dijk also asks about the tension between science and legislation. He actually refers to the report of the Hordijk Committee. I am also very grateful to that committee for the report it has produced. In September, as in the case of the Remkes Committee, we will be sending an appreciation of it, so that the Chamber can take note of how we proceed with it. When I specifically focus on AERIUS, AERIUS is the best thing we have right now. AERIUS makes the most insightful how nitrogen drops and what that means for licensing. That does not mean that we are at the end of the discussion. On the contrary, I always see opportunities for improvement. We should certainly seize it, but it will take time. If there is no good alternative, this is what we have to work with, but we will involve the views of the Hordijk Committee in this for further appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u201	I would like to respond to the answers in the second term, but in the first period I made a reasonable point about the regulatory burden for hunters in population management and damage control. It's immense. There's reports on that, too. I mention the obstacles to registration and the accumulation and complexity of legislation. Can't even get the broom through that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u202	That's right, there's a set of rules for hunting. I think that's quite right. Mr Van Dijk first drew it a bit wider. He asked if you couldn't leave the management to the professionals. I very much agree with him. We are also giving space to the land-based organisations and to the fauna managers. At the same time, I don't think you should handle hunting lightly. It is right that we should give frameworks on how that can take place and where. However, the lack of clarity leads to situations that are undesirable and we want to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u203	I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u204	I shall then, of course almost, come to Mr Janssen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u205	I thought you'd already dragged it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u206	Yeah, I'd already dragged it with me. I do not know if it is in my trap; Mr Janssen can judge that in a moment. Then we'll go together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u207	He's still there, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u208	He also mentioned the legal sustainability and what I said to Mr Van Dijk's question about the AERIUS system, by which we calculate what it means for licensing when the nitrogen drops. Does that provide sufficient assurance of what we are doing? I did not ask the Hordijk Committee to look at this again for nothing. The same advice has now been given. We are looking at how we can make some improvements in the shorter term, for example in the measurement network. You have to have some data intelligible. In the Lower House, GroenLinks and the SP have already been asked in a motion to extend that measurement network. There were more parties later. We are already working directly to see how we can do that. That also removes some of the uncertainty in those calculations. I have also heard Mr Hordijk make a number of other recommendations. We really need to take a good look at it, so allow me to get back to that in September. With regard to the sustainability of the whole package, I would like to say the following. I think we will be discussing it in this Chamber at the moment when the bill is here, but the government's approach to nitrogen and environmental improvement is aimed at taking a whole package of source measures on the one hand. That's not small. Those are really quite some source measures. I also heard Mrs Teunissen say: it is only about technical applications. I think she should take a closer look at the list of source measures. There are also a number of measures which have actually reduced the number of animals, albeit not as an end in themselves. But we have looked at what is the best measure in that place. I refer to the warm restructuring of pig farming, for which there has also been substantial funding in this package, in order to ensure that we were able to honour the requests made by the farmers. Addressing source measures, reducing nitrogen, taking additional measures in specific areas in the area-oriented process, investing in nature and nature much more in all the functions we have; in this way we believe that we have put in place a package that is really going to lead to an improved conservation status. But once again, you will be able to make that assessment when we have responded to the report of the Hordijk Committee. The other questions were more in the area of Mr Ollongren. I think she answered that. Then I come to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa's questions. She asked me to explain once again on which I base my belief that the developed legal alignment rules from the Wnb do not need to be incorporated into the Environment Act. The Environmental Act assumes trust between competent authorities. Article 2.2. of the Environmental Act provides for a general contract for coordination and the possibility of cooperation. The alignment rules enshrined in the Wnb are addressed only to the Minister of LNV and ensure that the Minister agrees with provinces in advance on certain decisions, such as the adoption of codes of conduct or the modification of the designation of a national park. So, basically, the law imposes a duty on me, let me put it this way. It is not necessarily the case that this leads to better cooperation, but the law stipulates that I must coordinate it. Those rules therefore also do not reflect the alignment between the provinces. Part of the alignment contained in the Nature Protection Act is based on the Nature Pact. In order to give the agreements of the Natural Pact a place in the Environment Act, it has been chosen to include them in the explanatory memorandum to the Supplementary Act and in the explanatory memorandum to the Supplementary Decision. We were just having a discussion about the decentralisation of nature policy. It is, of course, a fact that the provinces are responsible for nature policy. So it is often the other way round that I seek to coordinate with the provinces, because they are often the competent authority. I have to say, on the basis of the coordination of the last few months, that we have had good examples of this. Mrs Huizinga mentioned one example of the policy rules in which that did not go well, but that is not covered by this article. Because that was about the reconciliation between the provinces. They must lay down those policy rules. I have tried to play a facilitating role in this, and I have shared the views on how that happened, but in the end, fortunately, we have come to an agreement, but technically, I had no role here, because those policy rules are really laid down by the provinces. I think we are now, with the law that lays down, ensuring that the overall task of coordination is extended. This applies not only to me and the provinces, but also to the provinces themselves. Hopefully we will be able to ensure that situations such as those surrounding policy rules no longer occur. By the way, they still have their own powers, so it may eventually lead to that, but we are trying not to let that happen. Mrs Huizinga says that if there is a balance of interests to be made, this could lead to mitigation measures or to an ADC test. She asks if I can go into that further. Those measures and that test shall be considered when granting an environmental authorisation for an Natura 2000 activity. If it is demonstrated in the appropriate assessment required that the negative effects of an activity must be mitigated, then we need to look at this before that authorisation can be granted. If that does not happen, that permit cannot be granted. These are projects where, for example, the noise caused can cause a substantial disturbance of species. In that case, for example, you could look at a sound screen to take that away. You can also look at other things. This is, of course, very topical about nitrogen: if nitrogen causes something, what measures do you take to mitigate it somewhere? Often in larger projects of national interest, you get an ADC test. Of course, this is very often the case with the larger infra projects. Then there are things that really have an interest to carry through, but in which you can't easily compensate for that very close. Then you're gonna look at an ADC test. In this way you can weigh what is of national importance, but also ensure that the state of nature is protected. That is a minimum requirement for authorisation. Does Union law allow for the adaptation of conservation rules? Yes. In the Birds and Habitats Directives, there is scope to adapt conservation targets if necessary, if appropriate, in order to achieve the favourable conservation status. A very specific point is climate change, for example. It may be that things happen where you don't have direct influence. In the longer term, we have already taken an approach to this. At the same time, the restoration of Natura 2000 sites can contribute to climate mitigation and adaptation, for example by maintaining water or capturing CO in bogs. The minimum requirement is and will continue to be to prevent the deterioration of the Natura 2000 site with appropriate measures. So that will always be the framework within which you need to see if that kind of thing can happen. We have just had an extensive discussion on, for example, other areas, with regard to the Grevelingen. I have just explained in detail how we intend to proceed with this in the answers to questions put by other Members. Let's see. I think I have answered Mrs Huizinga's questions adequately. At least, I hope so. Then I come to Mrs Teunissen. She had a more fundamental argument about how she looks at the Environmental Law and the goals it achieves. She actually felt that we should be more ambitious. We have just discussed it in an interrupting debate. It also asks whether I can indicate how the same level of protection can be justified, given the depravable state of the environment's words and whether the legislative proposal provides sufficient tools to improve flora and fauna and not just prevent deterioration. As has been said, there are really major challenges for the environment and biodiversity. I share that with Mrs Teunissen. This law aims to transpose the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. It remains to be seen that further steps are needed to improve the conservation of the objectives, and that we are doing so in other ways. In the end, when the law is passed, they will also be incorporated into this law, so that the frameworks are clear again and the competent authorities know how to work with it, even when they are going to issue permits, for example. Mrs Teunissen also asks whether reducing the number of Natura 2000 sites is a solution to any problem and, if so, what for. Natura 2000 concerns nature of European interest. My approach is not so much aimed at reducing these areas. If there's a misunderstanding about that, I'd like to take it away. I am more concerned that we should look carefully at the best place to achieve the conservation goals I have had that discussion before and whether the structural weakness of areas due to their size or location can lead to reclassification or something like that. So we want to see if we can improve the state of nature in other ways. We can therefore see whether this strict protection regime will only be applied to targets that indeed follow from the European directives. There are always different sounds at this point. There are people who say that we have unnecessarily identified a lot of nature and there are people who say that we haven't designated enough nature. I also taste the differences here in the Chamber a little bit, although you are a little more united than I sometimes encounter in other Chambers, I must say. That is why we are looking at how best to ensure that the goals are maintained and we are also moving towards a favourable conservation status, because that is the ultimate goal. We are looking at whether the approach is being designed in the smartest way at the moment. At the same time, we also invest heavily in improving our natural areas and in reducing the pressure on those areas. Those were Mrs Teunissen's questions. Finally, Mr Dessing's questions are well received. He asked me to reflect on the interpretation of Articles 2.9 and 2.15, on nitrogen. He asks if I am specifically referring to this when I talk about policy-neutral implementation. As mentioned above, the Adaptation Act nature and the Supplementary Decision nature are policy-neutral translations of the Nature Protection Act. Decentralisation, which started with the first decentralisation impulse at the time and continued with the Nature Protection Act in terms of the powers for species protection and timber uprisings, is the starting point for the system of the Environment Act. There is nothing changed with this supplemental trail. So this is not going to be a new policy. I do not rule out that this can happen in the future, but then your Chamber will always be there to decide, because then the law will have to be changed. And it usually goes past your room. Mr Dessing also specifically asks whether it is therefore separate from the rules on the application of nitrogen. Yes, that's the case. What we do is convert the policy arm of the system of the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. It does not include the PAS provisions. I was just having a discussion about that. The PAS no longer exists. It's been disabled. What we have now is the Wnb, the Nature Protection Act. That is a translation of the directives from Europe. The PAS actually gave more space to the application of the Wnb. That space is gone again, because that was the essence of the Council of State's ruling. Once again, whether the proposal for a directive on nitrogen reduction and improvement of nature will be included in this proposal, that is, among other things, up to your Chamber, but that is not up to you to decide. In fact, Mr Dessing's next question was also about this. I hope, therefore, that he has been given sufficient clarity in response to his questions. Mr President, I believe I have answered the questions of the Members of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u209	Thank you, Minister. We now have the second term on the part of the Chamber. I would like to inform Members once again that if you table a motion, I do not know whether there will be any motions, you will have to read the text yourself and then put it on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u210	Thank you. First of all, we welcome the commitments regarding the discussion with IPO and VNG on the tree cover. We're really looking forward to clarity this year. I have full confidence in the Minister in the sense that there is a shared message. We are also pleased that the Minister is going to pay attention to the conversion of the nature visions into the environmental visions, that she is also going to discuss them with the provinces and that she will come back to us about them. I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that there can also be explicit attention to the formal requirement: how does this work? Then we can link that later, for example, to what happens in the natural values in those areas. Are there any provinces that do that more globally? Perhaps there is also something to see in what is being realized there about nature quality. I am specifically asking this because this Minister is undoubtedly going to do very well, but there are going to be elections. So it's good to record that. The Netherlands Nature Network touches on the previous point. We are pleased that the Minister has promised to report to us on this and that this remains well in sight. We would like to ask the Minister to take a closer look at whether the provinces align the definitions, otherwise it may be more difficult with different definitions in those areas to indicate at national level exactly what is happening in that Nature Network Netherlands. Then a less cheerful part of tonight and this afternoon, namely the nature information in the DSO. The proof of the pudding at the point of protection is of course in the eating. Are we going to have sufficient information on the licensing side as well as on the side of nature in this DSO, so that not only the initiators or the authorities, but also the citizens, who often watch with the government whether they are doing their job well, can watch? That hasn't been settled yet. It is discussed in the development process, but it is not yet in sight and it is not linked to a final deadline either. And if that is not properly regulated in the DSO, then there can be no question, as far as we are concerned, of balancing that use and protection in the Environment Act, because it lacks the instruments in fact. I wonder if the ministers themselves will be able to indicate what kind of effort they are going to set up in order to ensure that this is done in good time. It will undoubtedly be a follow-up question from GroenLinks to the royal decree. And then I get to the point of evaluation. I'm going much faster, Mr. Chairman! I'm gonna go relax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u211	You still have three minutes 51.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u212	Yeah, and I've only got one point left, so that's perfect. I could have read you that motion. But it is the issue of the independent evaluation committee and the annual evaluation. We have talked a lot about this in the introduction debate, as we have already said. Mr Rietkerk will table a motion on this, and we agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u213	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. You spoke on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u214	Can I just say one more thing? I would like to thank the ministers for spending a whole day here with us in these busy times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u215	That was almost a third term. I would like to give the floor to Mr Recourt of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, ministers. I'm facing a dilemma. I have listened carefully to you, but in the meantime I also thought: what should my second term be? Because the questions have been answered well in themselves. Where there was some doubt, you immediately said: we are going to monitor it; I am done; I am going to talk. But that is not the dilemma of my group. My group's dilemma is much more fundamental, and that is what we are already struggling with with with the entire Environment Act: is the Environment Act actually the answer to the challenges we are facing at the moment? Because the crises that this country is facing are mainly in the field of nature. And nature, so in the wake of the Supplementary Nature Act, is par excellence in what this magnifies itself in. And the question is, and I have also made it the core of my input: are the instruments and the direction, which are rightly defended tonight, because that is the line of the Environment Act, the appropriate instruments for achieving precisely that great ambition that we have to achieve in the field of nature protection? And I haven't figured that out yet. And that is what I am going to discuss with my group. And that struggle goes on until next Tuesday. And then we're gonna vote, and then you'll hear. But thank you for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u217	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mrs Moonen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u218	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both ministers for answering D66's questions. And I sincerely believe, Minister Schouten, and I hear very clearly in your response that you have a heart for nature, and that you are trying in all possible ways to safeguard those values of nature. And that's very good. I'm going over three points. When it comes to achieving a good conservation status, you have made it quite clear that it is set out in rural targets, that conservation objectives must be included in all management plans of all Natura 2000 sites. You have also honestly recognised that, when it comes to the definitions of conservation targets, they can be even more precise and that you are also working on them. These are important statements about the good conservation status. On environmental values, the Minister made a commitment to the D66 Group. She has agreed to include in the legislative proposal Nitrogen Reduction and Environmental Improvement an environmental value with a result obligation for nitrogen that works through in the Supplementation Act nature. That is an important commitment for our group. That's what I asked for in my input. I will take that to our group for Tuesday's vote. Finally, in my second term, I would like to ask the Minister about the timeliness of nature compensation. That's what we talked about. She said: provinces are about compensation; point. Provinces are indeed about compensation, but they should of course be accompanied by national frameworks. Our group would find it very logical if you gave the answer you gave to my written questions on this matter. Then you actually gave a very clear answer. Then you said 'temporarily' means that the compensatory measures take place at least before the start of the activity in question. So they have to be realized before they begin. That seems to me to be a clear national framework. Then it is indeed up to the provinces to complete that compensation. However, our group believes that they should be given a clear framework. That's what you said in that reply. My question is: can the Minister include this explanation of the timely compensation in the explanatory statement or in a collectible law, which will also be introduced? So can we take and describe that nationwide point of departure? That was the only question I had left in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u219	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mrs Klip-Martin on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u220	Mr President, thank you. I too would like to begin by thanking the Ministers very much for their detailed and substantive response. They have both indicated that, if you look purely at what is going on today and what we are discussing in this debate, you will see that it is a technical exercise. That is exactly why the contribution of the VVD looked the way it did. We're talking about the transfer of the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act. If you look at its structure, the main focus of our questions was whether the completed Environment Act offers the desired possibilities for the much-needed integral approach to the physical environment. In our view, both of you have responded sufficiently and convincingly to this. As regards effectiveness, we had a number of questions concerning possible flexibility as a result of the further experience gained with the Natura 2000 sites. I think that Minister Schouten has made it very clear that you must first demonstrate that your efforts and your legislation associated with them actually lead to results before you can work with Brussels to possibly slide with stamps or natural areas themselves. We understand that very well. But we hope that we keep in mind all the time that we do not strive to bring back animals or plants that will simply be impossible to do at a particular location, as in the Grevelingen. We have no further questions. We will support the bill next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u221	Thank you, Mrs Klip-Martin. I call Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both ministers for answering the questions of the CDA Group. I begin with a response to the input and answers of the Minister for Agriculture, Nature Management and Fisheries and I end with a response to the contribution and answers of the Minister for the Interior. As far as we are concerned, Minister Schouten has clearly indicated what is going on with this legislation. It's a technical exercise, because it's a policy-neutral transfer, but it's relevant that, in our opinion, nature goals are better secured in the Nature Supplementary Act of the Environment Act, with or without instructional instructions. In the end, the provincial government is responsible for giving an integral place not only to nature, but also to other elements. It will also take into account instructions, because otherwise it will not be able to translate them into regulations, which again work directly into the municipal environmental visions or zoning plans, as we used to say. I would like to say here that the discussion, so the debate on the responsibility for this, between Provincial States and the Executive Board, Deputy States, has recently got off to a better start than we have seen on paper at a number of provincial houses, so to speak. There is differentiation, but I am keen not to draw everything to the national administration when it comes to the natural areas outside the Natura 2000 sites, because Natura 2000 is the responsibility and the substantive responsibility of this cabinet and of this minister in particular. In your answers, you have convinced me of what this is all about. I also respond to the contribution of a number of people who have a heart for nature and actually say: go work more from goals. In fact, the Minister embraced that, too. That requires flexibility, as Mrs Klip just pointed out, not simply, but, in relation to the natural dynamics, think of Grevelingen. and climate change in general. This calls for a review of these objectives through reorientation, actualisation and the Minister called the word "surveillance." It has become clear to me that the targets were built between 2006 and 2013 and the limits have run. I thought it was from 2000, given Natura 2000, but I learned it wasn't. We are now seven years beyond that last limit, possibly there were one or two more areas in 2013-2014, and we look forward to the actualization and screening of those areas, through the glasses of the targets, because they are central, but we also want room for the flexibility of natural dynamics and climate change to do the right thing for the living environment and therefore for that nature. For example, we have not so much had a commitment, but a response that was completed in 2020 with that reorientation or screening. It is good to discuss this again with both Chambers. Then the buffer zones and the compensation I will take them together for a while because of the time in the Netherlands Nature Network. Of course, it can be done outside, but the regulation does give that space. I notice in my own country that if landowners want to work with management fees, they are best placed in the Nature Network Netherlands by way of land depreciation and lease conditions to bring nature closer. It's in that national nature network. That's what I mean by a powerful impulse, because otherwise nothing will happen that you can make more robust within that spacious spatial boundary. You will then need the management fees for land owners and agricultural entrepreneurs. In my first contribution on behalf of our group, I said that this is about nature-inclusive agriculture and agricultural inclusive nature. It's not either-or just and-and in our opinion. This requires tailor-made work in field-based processes, and it is very nice that European policy is also focused on this. I understood from the cabinet that the Minister is doing her best to ultimately adjust this policy so that the collectives of agricultural nature management receive structural funding. That's what's needed. I have a question for the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Fisheries. If the social task by entrepreneurs or entrepreneurship, that can be Natural Monuments, but also an agricultural or an estate owner, whom we all want, through green and blue services, we often talk about green services, but I look at blue services, given the climate demand through the management fee, this contributes to combating the drought and the bottlenecks with nitrogen. I ask the Minister whether the common agricultural policy will be in line with this and whether it will be linked to the additional resources available for these bottlenecks, which will also give development space. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the multi-annual understanding of the funding. As far as we are concerned, this question has not been sufficiently answered. The minister mentioned 300 million and in 10 years 3 billion. The paper said 500 million and 5 billion, but yes, that's the newspaper. I'd like to explain that to you. Has the Minister lost 2 billion or has it been placed elsewhere? I asked whether it is not necessary to solve the bottlenecks relating to the implementation of Natura 2000 there, so that you also have development space and the approach to nitrogen can start in the coming months. Is that possible or is that wishful thinking? Then there is the feasibility of legislation and regulation. That is also a task of the First Chamber. Grevelingen has been answered as far as I am concerned in bringing Mr Janssen along. With the Wierdene Veld there is one question left. It is not about a tension between nature on the one hand and economics on the other. These are incompatible social objectives of general interest, they are water extraction. I would like to have an insight into this process and in any case I would like to receive a letter at the end of the year on the state of play, because it has taken too long in this case. Finally, two points concerning the contribution and responses of the Minister for the Interior. It is very clear how the system of the Environmental Law and the objectives are consistently explained, also towards the Supplementary Law nature and the decisions taken in relation to nature. This helps clarify the system. I think we should keep explaining that to each other, because there are some misunderstandings. If we were here today we would be discussing the great decentralisation of nature, but that is not the case. That has been the case for a long time. It's a system overrun that's already in the Nature Protection Act. Mr. Chairman. I have two questions or points. The first question is at the intersection of the two ministers. He's in charge of the digital systems, so I'm gonna take it to the Home Secretary anyway. At the same time, he deals with the theme of nature and landscape. In the technical briefing we have shown very clearly that the basis of nature and landscape and the data will enter the system, right at the start. There's enough money for that. That's what we read in the papers. In the questions we have understood from the Minister that provinces and empires have money for development; something others have also pointed out. We heard from the provincial representative in our session that there was no money for that, but that was six months ago. That was before Corona. If the Minister says that the provinces have also cleared money for that expansion, we will see it in the letter before the KB is struck. I believe the Minister, but we have other information from the provincial representative. In the letter that comes after the holiday there is therefore a statement about it, and a promise that you will show this. Finally, setting up an independent evaluation committee. We have tried to get all together on this issue. From the end of January we have tried both in writing and in interruptions to bring this together. That didn't work. That is why I will be tabling a motion on behalf of several colleagues. I'll name them, too. This is a big stretch, just like the social domain. This concerns a lot of legislation with 68 laws, a number of pathways and a number of AMvBs. I'm not gonna name them all. We do not want an independent opinion from the evaluation committee until after five or six or seven years. We just want that every year. We want an annual evaluation. Not advice on a monitor, but an independent evaluation committee. This keeps the cabinet and also the Chambers in mind by looking at improvements from an analysis. Once every two years PBL; once every three years LPB; once every five years an evaluation of the law; once every six years management plans; it dulls me who does what when. We just want an annual report, in line with the Integrated Environment Act. That is why I would like to table the next motion, supported remotely by Mrs Baay. The President shall: Mr Rietkerk, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Kluit, Mr Klip-Martin, Mr Dessing, Mr Recourt, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Teunissen, Mr Moonen, Mr Huizinga-Heringa and Mr Janssen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government considers it important that the evaluation of the Environmental Law is independent, but does not want to create a legal guarantee for this;]] [[noting that an evaluation of the functioning of the Environmental Act is being carried out in practice five years after its entry into force;]] [[Considering that the Environment Act is a complex and comprehensive legislative project and thus a challenge for governments in terms of cultural change, implementation and administrative cooperation;]] [[Whereas annual reporting is desirable as it can contribute to the optimal implementation and monitoring of the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas it is important that the evaluation is independent regardless of the initial experience of the law;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent evaluation committee to report annually to the States General on implementation for five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34985-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u223	For the Acts, you have mentioned the Minister for Agriculture, Nature Management and Fisheries on a number of occasions. The last Minister for Agriculture, Nature Management and Fisheries was Mr Veerman, in 2002-2003, during the first cabinet-Balkenende. They were both your party mates. That is understandable, if it were not for the Prime Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to be Mr Veerman again from 2003 to 2006, in the second cabinet of your party colleague, Mr Balkenende. This is for the minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u224	Very good. So that's what the V stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u225	Your term was over. I call Mr Van Dijk from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. A few weeks ago, I finally got to read Geert Mak's big pill in Europe. A journey through Europe, but also a journey through the 20th century. And then you realize at once where we come from: poisoned rivers, because of the smog unliveable cities and forests that were languishing because of filthy industry. It's actually unbelievable where we come from, and actually so recently. What has been achieved over the past few decades? In terms of air, water, soil, great leaps forward have been made, at the same time accompanied by an increase in prosperity and well-being for many people. Let us take note of that. Yes, we must be careful of our nature. Yeah, we can't rest on our laurels. But only sketching apocalyptic scenarios leads to fatalism. I would like to make a few comments on hunting policy. I pointed out the great regulatory burden for hunters. The Minister indicated that we need clear frameworks. I fully agree with that, but we do not need unnecessary bureaucracy. I refer to the accumulation that is at issue, the complexity and the obstacles to registration. Can the Minister, in one of her meetings with the IPO, make this a point and perhaps also seek some harmonisation? Let's get back to the wild list. The minister indicated that the grey goose is not on it because of international agreements. In fact, I do not think that is correct. In any case, I note that the grey goose is huntable in every European country where the goose lives, only not in the Netherlands. How is that possible? Is the Minister prepared to place this goose, which causes a great deal of nuisance and damage, on the wild list? I think that really fits all the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u227	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u228	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers. I'd like to do my second term in two cubes. It seemed like we'd have fun doing something in cubes. The first block concerns the Minister of the Interior, the second block concerns the Minister of LNV. I had to smile a little when I heard the Minister of the Interior say how bad it is now and how nice and clear it gets with the Environment Act, where everything is put in one law with AMvBs. Now you can say a lot about AMvBs, but not that they are very insightful for citizens. During the debate on the Introduction Act, I made a comparison with the masterpiece of Marcel Proust, À la Decherche du Temps Perdu. The 3,000 pages of this work really read a lot easier than the 3,000 pages of the AMvB's. I just had to smile. On my question on the BIT opinion, it has been said that this is not yet finished. That's what we're waiting for. However, the BIT opinion was crucial for the social benefits of level 3, implementation and development. And until a year ago, as long as I was involved, it was also a crucial point for the support of the provinces, I understand. I fully share Mr Rietkerk's doubts about the financial situation, even if only because I have been able to make those arrangements myself and I do not have the impression that there has been a great deal of change in the meantime. From now on, in the spirit of the Environment Act, we will assess everything in its entirety. Everything is connected, everything is connected with everything, and now, if this law is passed, there is a system law. But from now on - or from next Tuesday - it will be about the content and the implementation, in which the DSO is crucial. I have no further questions for the Home Secretary. Then the Minister of LNV. Protecting is an attitude; let me put it this way. Let me take the Grevelingen as a practical example. That was five years ago, when I was faced with it as a deputy, a project as dead as the soil of the Grevelingen itself. There was no movement in that, but that was also a matter of attitude. It has begun with a great deal of resistance, also from the government. It was too expensive and the attitude was: we wait until we have to do something. The six-year reports were actually a late note in the sense of: we hear it and if we really have to do something and we are forced to do something. But that's not the attitude we're looking for. Protecting as an attitude is necessary, also in order to convince the European Commission if we want to get things done. I have to say, a lot has changed since then. It has moved on again and there has been an incredible enthusiastic team of people on it, also from the national government, from the ministries, who have put with great enthusiasm soul and salvation in it. I think about that with great pleasure and I am glad that it seems to be moving in the right direction. But it also calls for realism. The realism in that attitude is that if you see something going wrong, you're gonna do something about it. Not because it has to be Brussels or others, but because you want it intrinsically. That is my only question in this second term: does the Minister share this attitude with me? Mr. Chairman. The SP Group had, has, and holds.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Having said that, I look forward to the discussions we are going to have on the follow-up after this has been completed, with realism leading us both in terms of content and in terms of the time when the Royal Decree is ready for treatment. I look forward to receiving all the proposals, reports, letters and appreciations we will receive in September. I'm gonna clear up some reading time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u229	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u230	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin my second term by thanking both ministers for their extremely pleasant and clear answers. You understand that the focus of my contribution was mainly in the interests of careful monitoring and proper evaluation of this law. The concern is that, over time, we must note that the expectations are not true and that the law has no positive effects. That was the centre of gravity and also the reason why my group signed Mr Rietkerk's motion first. At the same time, I was very pleased with all the commitments made by the ministers, particularly in the area of monitoring and evaluation. That reassures my group, as far as it was necessary. I will advise you to vote in favour of this law. Like Mr Janssen, I look forward to the many readings that will come our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to both ministers for their comprehensive response. I just heard the word "doom-thinkers" come across, but the biodiversity crisis, the climate crisis and the nitrogen crisis require structural solutions and a legal anchoring of these solutions. And not later, but now. In addition to technical transposition, this bill is also a national toolbox to ensure the level of protection of nature. So this bill is also a place to sharpen these instruments or not and thus an opportunity to do something about the deplorable state of nature. So it's a missed opportunity if we pass the bill this way. My group's main objection remains that the transposition into the Environment Act will lead to a different order in the rules of nature protection. Vulnerable natural values, which are already under such severe pressure, are subjected to uncertainty. My group is concerned with removing that uncertainty. The University of Wageningen says: "It is currently unclear whether the reform of the system will lead to better decision-making for nature and landscapes," and mentions as one of the reasons that there is no national framework for an integral consideration. This takes place at a decentralised level and is also based on environmental values to be recorded by the province or municipality. As long as these environmental values are not known, there is therefore no indication of how the integral balance for nature and landscape works. So how can the Minister guarantee that there will be no deterioration? Mr. Chairman. My group's concerns about this potential deterioration have not been removed. That is why we are still calling for more national direction and a better legal and manageable anchoring of the objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u233	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Finally, Mr Dessing will speak on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u234	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Thank you to Minister Schouten for answering my main question and confirming the separation of structure and content. Then Minister Ollongren. I agree with the CDA's call. A complex legislative system requires an overall, independent evaluation. I support that, and that is why we have co-signed this motion. It's a complex, three-dimensional system. I call on Minister Ollongren to make the booklet very clear towards the KB and to make that three-dimensional structure a kind of four-dimensional grid, with a very clear overview to the KB. That will at least help our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u235	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Ministers, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? One minister wants five minutes. The other minister also wants five minutes. Then I suspend a total of five minutes, until 8:27.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u236	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you again for all the comments made and a single question that has also been asked to me. I've been hurting my brain for a while, because there were some big pills going over the table. Geert Mak of course only writes thick books; I don't know for sure about Proust, but I suspect he only writes fat pills. But what we have here is actually more of a feuilleton, and I like that: of those trilogyes, where, if you have part one out, you can't wait until you have part two. But the characteristic of that is that it is usually, when you have it in conjunction, a very beautiful whole. Mrs Kluit's question was about nature information in the DSO. She mentioned the proof of the pudding, and that is also a good expression in this context. Now I see Mrs. Kluit, fine. "The proof of the pudding is in the eating"; that's true, of course, but I do want to reassure her on this point, as far as possible. When it comes into force, the basis is in it; the nature permits granted are simply in it. This means that all regulations under the Environmental Act, i.e. the natural supplement scheme, the provincial regulation, the environmental plan and the waterboard regulation, are included. So that's better than it is now. There is an alert service for requested permits, for the benefit of citizens, for participation. So Mrs Kluit doesn't have to worry about that. After that, you're gonna get the build-up. Then we will have Natura 2000 simply in a website, which in itself does not change prioritize development in Natura 2000 and permits granted. So the whole information product around nature is prioritized in the first tranche of development. In the case of Natura 2000, this is the same as in the case of licences granted. So that's how we first build the base of the DSO. And then this will be added to the development, if it all works properly. Mr Recourt asked a question to himself, and of course he has to answer it himself. But I wanted to give him something, which I also judged in the first term. Of course, I cannot say that this law is the answer to everything. He was talking about a crisis, but he was mainly referring to nature, and I understand that very well. But if you look at the whole spatial planning policy, and all the challenges in it, I have already mentioned climate change, energy transition and housing, of course, there are a lot of policy areas where we have to do a lot in this country. I am afraid to say that this is the answer to that, but it is one answer to that. It's gonna make it easier for all of us. And it's not perfect. I have heard Mr Janssen say that everything is getting better, and that is, of course, the intention, because we assume that it can be better than it is now. Then you'd have to have the courage to change your system, and you'd have to do it carefully. I also think that we are doing this very carefully with each other. That is why we are often and extensively discussing this issue here. So my answer to Mr Recourt's question to himself is that I think that in the future the integrity of the system will guarantee the interests of nature well and perhaps better than in the present system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u238	I may have been a little slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u239	I was too fast, I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u240	Thanks for the answer. The question about the timing of the development is still open. When is it finished: before entering the Environment Act, or not? Mr Rietkerk and I both had a question about the financing of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u241	I'll definitely come back to the funding. As far as timing is concerned, the development cannot, by definition, take place before the entry into force. The deal is that the DSO has to work. Then we have a little more time to actually implement it and to practice well with the system by postponing its entry into force. On the date of entry into force there is therefore a functioning DSO, and a system operating on the basis of that DSO. From there, we're gonna build up. I cannot tell you exactly when the development of nature I have just mentioned will be completed, but it is the first priority, so it is the first development that is going to take place. As far as the money is concerned, Mr Rietkerk had indeed asked a question: is there a sufficient budget? Of course, I have yet to meet the first province, which says: no problem. That's right. You just always have to keep an eye on the budget. But perhaps I did not make it clear enough that I also have money in the budget for development. I have EUR 50 million in the budget. I made an administrative agreement with the co-governments about who pays what. We have also said that the source holder of the information product bears the costs. So the Empire will pay the connection fee. I have a budget for development and the provinces have made 5 million available for nature and external security in that development anyway. I think that's enough. It is certainly sufficient for the first priority. In any case, I think that this reservation will take into account costs that may arise. We all don't know exactly, but I don't think there's any reason to be very concerned about that right now. Mr. Chairman. I'll see if I can handle the motion. I think so. Motion K concerns the evaluation committee. I'm going to struggle a little bit, but I think you'll be happy with me after that. That evaluation committee is important, independent and has an important role to play. The only thing I don't want is to burden the evaluation committee with an impossible task. I am also prepared to read the motion to ask the evaluation committee to report every year on how things are going, on the basis of the monitoring that we are going to do on all kinds of issues. I think we can do this, too. I think we should realise that the evaluation committee can only carry out the overall evaluation after the five years, as was foreseen. Your Chamber requests that the evaluation committee report annually on how it works in the partial aspects. That may not be the overall in-depth assessment. I just heard Mr Dessing from Forum say that. But it will mean that the evaluation committee will keep its finger on the pulse and that the Chambers will be able to report on this every year. If we can do that, I'd like to give Chamber of Justice to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u242	Thank you, Minister. After cleaning the cathedral, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, to your Chamber for the always substantive debate we can have here. That's good, because there's a lot of work in the law. I would also like to thank those who have complimented all the people behind the scenes, because there is a lot of work in it. We are only here to defend it, but it is by no means just the work of the two of us. I have received a number of specific questions. Mrs Kluit asks if I can also look at the formal requirements where the nature vision is transformed into the environmental vision. I'll pay attention to that. Of course, there must also be some clarity on how to apply the results contained in the reports. I'll see how this works in practice. We also have BET12, by the way. This agency of the provinces can also play a facilitating role in this. But I admit that I will pay attention to this point when we go around the fields. This also applies to the alignment of the definitions in the progress reports of the NNN, the Netherlands Nature Network. That is what we are looking at, because the results in the reports must be comparable. Of course, the provinces have their own powers, but it is good to see how this goes per province. The precise implementation of the Nature Network, i.e. surface, quality and coherence, remains the responsibility of the provinces. I agree with you that the comparability of the reports should be optimal, so we are going to do our best to do so. Then I come to Mr Recourt. He didn't really have a question. I think Mr Ollongren has explained why we believe that this is important. Let me add another little cri de coeur. If you treat laws, the goal is never to get them passed. The goal is to ensure that you ultimately improve the practice or that a particular goal, which you are very much striving for, is getting closer. I have heard very well what the various considerations of the groups are. There's one constant in it. All the groups are wondering how one ultimately weighs whether this benefits nature or not. I wouldn't have defended the law here if I had any doubts. Let's get one thing straight. That is what I am saying to Mr Janssen, who asked about intrinsic value. Nature is not a hobby. Nature is ultimately vital to all of us, but you can also look at it economically. I think it is now clear that, if you want to have economic development somewhere, the best way to get there is by nature development. Otherwise, you won't be able to issue a permit at all. We are the first to see how it works in practice. I monitor very regularly. We're consulting with the county. And yes, I also have a stomachache sometimes when we see that certain results are not being achieved, or when things go backwards. However, that only motivates me to continue to ensure that things are getting better. I really believe that with this system we can bring those goals closer. If that is not the case, I assume that you will be the first to remind us; and rightly so. That's your job, but I hope it's not necessary. I am convinced that it is precisely with this system that we can bring those steps closer. I hope you will take that into account in your considerations with the group. Mrs Moonen specifically asks about the timeliness of nature compensation. The clarification of the term "timely" is already laid down in the explanatory note of the Quality of Living Environment Decision. I will see if I can include this in the explanatory memorandum to the Nature Supplementary Decision. So it's already in the decision, but that way we can secure it again. Is the definition as I gave in the written answers correct? Yeah, that's right. That question was still specific. I say to Mrs Klip: thank you very much for your contribution to the debate. I share your analysis that we should, above all, look at the best way to protect habitat species. If we can do better in another way, we should not close our eyes to that. We must always try to realize the best way, the best way to do it. That's exactly what the cabinet wants. Mr Rietkerk had a number of more specific questions. He came back to his speech about "the goals central" and the dynamic living environment. He specifically asked for a few things. He asked: if we look at the social challenge, can we not see whether we can better use the CAP funds for those who contribute to management? He mentioned a number of examples of this. We are in the middle of negotiations with a view to Brussels, so it is quite difficult to give a definitive answer now. What I can do, and I'll tell you what I can do, is this. The money that we have earmarked for nature, the 3 billion, the 10 times 300 million, goes partly to management. I am still negotiating with the provinces and the organisations involved how best to put it in place. I am prepared to look into these discussions as well to see whether we can use some of the resources for those who take charge of that management. They could be farmers, they could be landowners or whatever. I cannot anticipate the outcome of this, but I will inform your Chamber if I have more clarity. At the moment when the programme Nature has more contours, I will also let your Chamber know how I have been particularly dangerous at this point. So I hope I can meet Mr Rietkerk with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u244	Mr Rietkerk has another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u245	Thanks for the answer. A little more specific about management, and not so much about green services, but also about blue services, water supplies. These are also social challenges. Is that what your efforts are for? Not a commitment, but an effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u246	I just need to be careful that I'm not gonna promise all kinds of things that I can't live up to. The water services are, of course, a bit wider. This is really still seen on the Natura 2000 land-based sites. That is where the priority lies, including the resources that we have secured to take that step in the improvement of nature. There are, of course, parts that have to do with water, such as water level, water management and that sort of thing. I'll try to do the best I can in that context. Then I come to Mr Rietkerk's question as to whether it is 3 billion, 2 billion or 5 billion. 3 billion is specific to nature management, restoration and improvement. 2 billion is available for all kinds of measures we have taken to reduce nitrogen. So the approach consists of two legs: improving nature and reducing nitrogen. For this there is a total of 5 billion and all this contributes, hopefully, to the good state of conservation of nature. Then there was also a question about the Wierdense Veld. Mr Rietkerk specifically asked if I could inform the Chamber before the end of the year of the state of play. In the Wierdense Veld case, it is a matter of choosing not to reduce drinking water production and therefore not to implement a measure because of the great social importance, and that we are going to explain it in Brussels. It is up to the province to choose and underpin that scenario. Overijssel has so far made no request to me. That is really where the primary responsibility lies to support that request. Then I'll have to get it. If I get it, we'll see how we can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u247	In the debate, the Minister is very clear about what the government is responsible for, namely for the Natura 2000 targets. We agree on that. The council and the province will send a signal and will indicate the blue contour in the coming period on the basis of reports already at LNV. With the knowledge you have, my question is as follows. If the province opts for the blue structure, and they are going to do so, would you like to clarify the follow-up steps as soon as possible? I would like that in writing before the end of the year, not to wait for years again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u248	I haven't received a formal signal from the county yet. That's what I need. I understand that the municipality has indeed adopted a motion. I have not yet received the signal from the province as to how they intend to go there or what scenario they are choosing. I do believe that we have made this clear at first, because if the province does not choose it, we are in a strange situation. Then I will also cooperate with you to see how we can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u249	In line with Natura 2000 and its objectives, the Minister indicated that county advisors and portfolio holders, i.e. Degraded States, are sending a signal to the Executive Board. Do you think it is sufficient for the province to give you the signal through the Executive Board, as a minister, so that you can give that clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u250	The provinces always know how to find me, so I think they know how to let me know. And again, when that signal comes, I'll cooperate and see where I can do that. But I do really attach to that order. I think that's the right order of things. Then Mr Van Dijk. I am going to tell Mr Van Dijk a bit of news first, and that has become possible because of not his efforts, but that of his colleague Mr Schalk. A motion by Mr Schalk on the unlocking of natural data was adopted last year under the E.R. approach to nitrogen. It was called the NDFF. That was the system in which those data were stored and the question was whether that could be unlocked for private promoters. It's a real coincidence, but as of today, no more charges will be charged for that application. That is why I gave substance to the Schalk motion, which was adopted here. I thought it would be nice to mention that. This shows that the work here pays off. He had a specific question about hunting, about geese on the national list. Let's see. I think there's some confusion about the Canadian goose versus the gray goose. It's gonna be very technical now, Mr. Chairman. If you're asking me what the differences are exactly, I'm not just gonna spoon it up. The Canadian goose is already on the national list, on the wild list, and the grey goose is not. If the species cause damage at national level, they will be placed on the national exemption list. That is not the case for the other goose species, only for the Canadian goose. Again, the provinces can grant an exemption to do so themselves. Well, that's a really provincial decision. That is what I can say at the point of the geese.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u251	Very briefly, because I do not want to make a fundamental point of the geese after such a colourful debate and certainly not about the gray goose. I actually understood from your initial reaction that it was mainly about international agreements. I just looked up the treaty with that very difficult name, the AEWA. There is a list of the European countries in which the gray goose is and whether it is 'huntable', so simply huntable, or 'protected'. In the whole row there is only one p and that is with the Netherlands. My question is, then, how can we, as the only country, make such an exception for the grey goose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u252	You're asking me over. I really should check it out. I don't know. I'm getting overly interested in the gray goose now, so I'll take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u253	We'd love to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u254	That's good. Let's see. Then the rule pressure for the hunt. Mr Van Dijk also asked about this. Last year, following the Von Martels motion, which was adopted in the House of Representatives, a number of investigations were launched, among others by BW12, which deal with the way in which damages are dealt with and the reduction of administrative burden. These results will serve as a basis for the evaluation. As a result of the corona crisis, the investigations and thus the evaluation and implementation of the motion have been delayed. I now expect these to be completed in the first half of 2021. Then we will also have more insight into the regulatory pressure at that point. Mr Janssen had a nice question, perhaps the question of the evening. He asked what ultimately is the intrinsic value of nature and what my intrinsic motivation is to stand up for nature. I think I have just pointed it out to Mr Recourt. Nature lets us enjoy. Nature we have to care for, to cherish and to protect. It is ultimately not a must, but something that contributes to the well-being of all of us and also strengthens the entire ecosystem. I think we can see in many of these processes that if they are broken through, that eventually also leads to a lot of damage on the other side. Not in the least of our well-being and perhaps sometimes of our health. It is in all our interests to protect nature. I am sometimes impressed by the fact that nature is not always affected by our behaviour. That sometimes seems to be the case, but I was recently at the Deurnese Peel, where there had been a big fire. I went there to see how things were going. There were still fires everywhere; they were still going on everywhere. While everything was all black and grey, within a week green plants and a green layer came through. Then I thought: we can always pretend as if we can make everything workable and make everything work, but in the end nature, fortunately, also goes its own way. Then it is up to us to ensure that this is done in a way that we can still reconcile it all. I think that's also at the heart of the Environment Act we've dealt with here. That is perhaps also my answer to Mrs Teunissen's question about protection. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u255	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u256	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. We have now come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home. I'm closing the meeting.
