ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the VAA on the recent unrest and violence in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security. Also a warm welcome to the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate at home. Perhaps the MPs would also have expected the Minister for Legal Protection. He's indisposed. The Minister takes care of all the honours. We have every confidence in that. I would like to start with the first speaker, Mr Markuszower, on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Madam President. There was unrest and violence in the Netherlands during the summer. And that's a long way from over if we don't do something. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch are losing their streets, neighbourhoods and cities;]] [[Whereas it is time to reclaim those streets, neighbourhoods and cities;]] [[Whereas Moroccan street terror is also a form of terror;]] [[Whereas it is already possible to denaturalise double-national terrorists;]] [[calls on the government to apprehend double-national street terrorists, punish them for a long time and then denaturalize them and bang them out of our country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-629]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. We have had an intrusive debate, an intrusive general discussion, about the unrest this summer. I have also tried to give a voice to all those young people and parents in neighborhoods who are getting into the negative news, who are trying to make 364 days a year something very beautiful from their neighborhood, to tackle problems and to work on beautiful solutions, and now every time an incident is thrown away, just as we heard from the previous speaker. I think it is time to look carefully at the causes and solutions for such disturbances, to do so with an open mind and to look at them in their entirety. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas (practice) experts and opinion-makers see different causes for the recent unrest this summer, ranging from internship discrimination to corona boredom and cultural differences;]] [[Whereas fundamental insight is needed in the backgrounds and causes of unrest, including risk factors and, in particular, protective factors, in order to identify the causes and possible solutions;]] [[Whereas it is also necessary to examine explicitly the solutions of local residents themselves for effectiveness and how governments can support this;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a wide-ranging study of the causes of recent unrest and the possibilities of helping to prevent this type of disorder in the future, in this context, to explicitly involve the perspectives of residents, entrepreneurs and social initiatives from urban areas themselves, and to inform the Court of Justice of the results thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Dam. Mr Van Dam speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question and one motion. Let me begin with the motion. This one's about preemptive search. I present her with Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas preventive search is a competence that can effectively contribute to preventing the taking of knives, weapons and heavy fireworks on the streets;]] [[Considering that the bar to use this competence is very high, that preventive search cannot be used flexibly and to a large extent differs locally in terms of application, thus causing the police and justice authorities across the country to face wide differences in enforcement;]] [[Whereas the application of preventive search has not been evaluated nationally until years ago;]] [[calls on the Government to have the preventive search tool evaluated and updated to the requirements of this time, and to inform the Court of Justice of this in spring 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Members Van Dam and Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-631]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u7	Well, I'd like to offer you a brief explanation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u8	Yeah, do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u9	This motion also strikes the bridge to old and new. In a month or three we have either already talked about it, or we are trading the sintering-class gifts at the then still existing middle class. And even then, we're in trouble on the street. We believe that this preventive search can make an essential contribution to preventing problems from arising. Hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you. Mr Van Raak of the SP has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u11	Actually, actually. Here and there are questions about effectiveness and there is the question of whether or not ethnic profiling works. Is this motion also intended to include those two elements in that evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u12	If there's going to be an evaluation, I think it needs to be assessed in width. Above this motion, however, Mrs Yeşilgöz and I believe that preventive search is an effective and good means. We know that there are also people who look at this more critically. Let us get this straight and then perhaps, on the basis of such an evaluation, let us have the debate on which direction to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u14	I have one more question, Mr President. In the AO I mentioned that there were once in Gouda the Gouda city rules. It wasn't specifically about those ten Gouda city rules. It was about formulating rules about how we deal with each other in the Netherlands and to give something up-to-date about it. I've lost a little bit of what the Minister wanted with that. I heard he was positive about that in the AO, but maybe he can reword what he wants with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. She speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have generally discussed the impact of riots on residential areas and also the diversity of these riots by nature and extent. A motion by the SGP adopted last week also calls for further investigation into the background of, for example, perpetrators. That was a little sharper than GroenLinks suggested, but I see interfaces. I would like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared to apply this motion of the SGP in the examination of the nature and extent of the riots. I'd like a commitment. Mr. Chairman. A lot of camera footage was made in the riots. We see that a lot. Sometimes it takes a very long time for those images to be released and we can see the notorious perpetrators of violence. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of footage by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office is effective in the detection and successful prosecution of criminal offences;]] [[Whereas the use of footage is generally more effective when an early decision is taken to share images of suspects with the public;]] [[Whereas wider use of private camera images can also be used to support detection;]] [[having regard to the fact that in 2019 the Cabinet indicated that it did not follow up on a bill that allowed the wider use of camera images by private individuals;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the OM and police, to examine the extent to which the current Direction Investigation Notice provides sufficient scope for the prosecution and the police to share camera footage of public violence victims more early than is currently the case;]] [[calls on the Government also to examine, in consultation with OM and police, the extent to which wider use of camera images made by private individuals is possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-632]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u17	Finally, Mr President. We also talked during the AO about rival gangs and drill raps. I asked for attention to be paid to mothers whose son was murdered or on a hit list and who say: listen to us and involve us in this; we would very much like to see preventive searches carried out and those weapons removed from the streets. I asked the ministers to talk to those mothers. I'd like to know if that conversation has taken place and what the outcome is. My colleague Mr Van Dam has already explained why we are also in favour of preventive screening and proper evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general discussions on recent unrest and violence in this summer, we also discussed the background to it. The background to violence and nuisance is not the same everywhere, but we must recognise that there is sometimes a problem of integration behind it. Would it not be time for a new CRIEM policy, I asked the Minister, as it was in the 1990s? That stands for: crime in relation to the integration of ethnic minorities. The Minister's reaction was: I'll hear it when it's wider in the Chamber. For this reason, I have already tabled a motion to this effect to the General Political Reviews, which has indeed received the support of a majority of the House. That motion can be found in part No. 31 (35570). The motion finds that the crime figures still show a worrying overrepresentation of people with a non-Western migration background, for example from the Antilles, Morocco or Suriname. The government is therefore invited to identify and investigate this problem and to develop a targeted approach to reduce both crime in these groups and crime in total. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister today how he intends to pick up this glove and when we can hear more about it as a Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u20	Thank you very much. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister indicated that he could proceed with the answer to the questions and the assessment of the motions. I think the motions will be passed soon. The Minister has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u21	Mr. Chairman. This is a bit of a new kind of challenge, because I don't have the motions in front of me yet, but such a thing can always offer some extra color in life. I'm going to discuss the motions on the basis of what I wrote down. And then, of course, I come to the additional questions raised by Mr Van Dam on the Gouda rules, by Mrs Yeşilgöz on the discussion with the mothers and by Mr Van der Staaij on the motion of his hand that was tabled and adopted last week. Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower's motion for a resolution 629 I don't recommend. We have very clearly laid down rules in the rule of law with your Parliament on the withdrawal of nationality. We just have to follow it together. Those rules work very well, by the way. Let me put that in front of you. The WODC recently established that again in a report. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Van den Berge's motion on item 630. I start by saying that I always have a bit of sympathy or sympathy for that motion, but I'm going to dissuade her anyway. Because in the letter I wrote about this, I have already referred a great deal to research. I also pointed out recently in your Chamber, which was last Monday when dealing with a number of criminal matters, that the unsavory WODC very often has all kinds of accompanying investigations and research reports that we can always get out of our way. At the moment, I do not think it is appropriate to carry out a special survey of this summer's unrest, and I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u22	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u23	The Minister's appreciation started out very well, but then I felt it a little bit coming. That's too bad, because I think this would be good. Look, the letter of inquiry is interesting, but it doesn't offer an integral picture in itself either. In fact, he says: there are experts who say this and others say that. It would be so interesting to do a good research on that. Then we can also make good policy and not always talk about incidents, but we can really talk about a long-term approach. That is what the motion is about. The Minister may interpret the motion more broadly than only with regard to the riots of this summer. I'm just gonna say this for your consideration. So I hope that the right start might be a good follow-up after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u24	I'm holding the appreciation. Once again, I would just like, through your chairman, Mr Van den Berge and other Members, to discuss with the WODC and other scientific institutions the wealth of material they already have in these situations. Again, the letter refers to this in the necessary places. I think we've seen some things happen that can be traced directly back to what previous investigations have already indicated. That's what I indicated in the letter. Also, we've seen things that seem to have a correlation with the coronavirus. As you know, as far as the evaluation of the coronavirus, its policy and its consequences are concerned, the necessary investigations are already being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u25	Thank you. Before you proceed to the motion in part No. 631, here's the thing. The motions have now been distributed, so the members can also update the administration. The motion in part No. 629 has been dissuaded and the motion in part No. 630 has also been dissuaded. The Minister is now ready for the motion in part No. 631. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u26	Mr. Chairman. The preemptive search. Your Chamber knows from the letter I sent at the beginning of February that I am in favour of using the means of preventive search in certain circumstances which are in line with the existing case law of the European Court of Justice. The motion calls for an evaluation of the instrument. I can give that motion judgment Chamber, because the last evaluation was a long time ago and it also concerned a very different form of preventive search than we are doing today. But this can be addressed in the award of the evaluation. I will inform your Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u27	Motion in part No. 631, Judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u28	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motion in part No. 632, in which the signatories to the motion in part No. 631 nickels have changed. I forgot to mention that it was Van Dam and Yeşilgöz at the motion in part No. 631. They are Yeşilgöz and Van Dam at the motion in part No. 632. I would ask that this last motion be retained. There are no signals to me at this time that the current designation would not give enough room for OM or police to use private camera footage in the detection and prosecution of public violence, but I would like to contact the petitioners if there are indications and signals that might go in a different direction and then engage in the conversation with police and prosecutors and then come back to your Chamber. I suggest we hold the motion for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u29	That is possible if we can also agree with the Minister that we have completed all those talks before Christmas so that we know what space we see there, and we can still see what we are going to do with the motion that is being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u30	That's how concrete I want to be. I would like to agree that I have completed the discussions on this matter with the police and the public prosecutor before Christmas and have reported to you in writing. Then we can have this subject in an AO right in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u31	At the request of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, I propose her motion (28684, No. 632). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u32	Then I have three more questions. The first question, of course, concerns the question of the Gouda rules. In the AO which this was about, this is already a week or three ago.I have said that I am certainly positive about this and will look at it. I have also pointed out that some of these rules are already being applied in the current policy framework. In order to extend it a little bit here and finally to support the memory of Mr Van Dam in that respect, I would like to say that I will return to this in a letter later this year. Mr. Chairman. About the conversation with the mothers, I can tell you that we are in the process of setting that up in a good way. The only thing that slows us down a little bit in time is the developments surrounding the COVID-19 virus, but we are still trying to do our best to do that. We are now actually very fast and that would mean that I could reflect on Mr Van der Staaij's motion for an hour more. I see in some people a body language that points the other way. Just for those who do not know exactly what this is about: last week Mr Van der Staaij tabled the motion to examine whether certain groups are overrepresented in crime statistics and, if so, what the background is. I'm just looking at him to see if I can do his motion, so roughly summarized, justice. That is indeed a socially important issue, which is why your Chamber has adopted the motion. I think that together with some colleagues from other departments, I should look very closely at how you would like to deal with this. For I would like to stress that I have exchanged this with Mr Van der Staaij at the AO on 3 September that this has been a number of years of policy in the past. At some point, our ancestors said "well, we're not going to go along with that" in the metaphorical sense in parliament and the then cabinet. I would like to take a more detailed look back at what has been there than the history of it. In addition, I would like to think together about SZW's colleague in particular, but perhaps also about a few other departments of the European Union, to see how we can make sense of this now. I referred to the interesting nature of the subject. I do think that if we do this, we should really put it right. But no misunderstanding: it is not the intention to play the ball in the back for months now. That's not my idea, but I'd like to set it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u33	Thank you. I see that Mr Van Dam has a question. It is not your question, but I will allow a very short question and then I will ask the Minister to reply briefly. Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u34	Nor will I speak the Hour. Don't worry. I do have a need to say something. We in the CDA Group also voted in favour of Mr Van der Staaij's motion. I must say that I myself had some hesitation in doing so, because our AO was so dominated by the great opposition party, which, in particular, pushed the lawnmower towards one group with a certain background. So I have a need to say that in the context of the debate I like to highlight that it is being looked at with nuance. I expect nothing less from the Minister. With this expectation we have looked at Mr Van der Staaij's motion. I had the need to repeat here that it should not be in line with what that debate started with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u35	That's more of a call. I'm going straight to Mr Van der Staaij. He also has a question for the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u36	Thank you for the Minister's response. It is right that he wants to involve Social Affairs and Employment, including the integration component. My simple question is: when does the Minister intend to inform the Chamber of the way in which the investigation is carried out, or even more so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u37	I can at least say that it is my intention to come up with an interim report on how this should be done this calendar year. But I want to manage the expectations in advance, because this is a big thing. Let me give you one example. We have had Mr Van Dam's motion and, as a follow-up, Mr Rosenmöller's motion in the First Chamber, which called for a long horizon on the financing of the criminal justice chain and its stability. I also take this as a rough summation. The really good preparation of a research assignment, an investigation and a start with it, appears to take a year on such a deep subject, at least within the framework of Rosenmöller. We must therefore manage the expectations in that respect, but I must say that I will return to you before Christmas, and perhaps even before that point was asked for in the other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-13.u38	The votes on the motions tabled will be taken next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for his presence and answers to the questions. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input and thank you for the interest.
