ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and also the Media. I'm gonna have to switch over, okay? Glad you could make it! The next item is the report (Doc. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. During the general discussion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the educational cost, there was a great deal of talk about financial reserves. This is a point I have been making for years: money intended for education must also go to education. That should go to kids and class and shouldn't be in a bank account. Fortunately, at least now the Minister is going to take steps in cooperation and ensure that the money is not in the account, but goes to education and to children as much as possible. When it comes to financial reserves in school boards, we see that the Minister is even more cautious. He has now drawn up an alert value, but when it is maintained and in what way, we are still not quite clear. I'd like to ask the Minister if he has a clear plan. Does he have a step-by-step plan just like with the partnerships? When does he want to talk about this? When's he gonna maintain? I'd like to have a reaction from him on that. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one other question. In the debate we had, I also asked the Minister about pupils over 18 years of age who want to stay in secondary special education, but sometimes they shouldn't, because the partnership says that it doesn't have any money for that. These are pupils who, for example, benefit from a disability through a number of years of extra education. I'm not okay with this happening. That's what the Minister said at the time. He said he's going to talk to the partnerships about that. I'd like to know if that conversation has already taken place. If so, what has come out of it? Because I really hope we don't hear these signals here more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u3	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been some time since we had this debate following a McKinsey study which showed that it would be wise to spend more money on education. Now I do not have the illusion that we are going to arrange that on a Tuesday afternoon in The Hague. We're gonna try that another time. We had also asked to include in that study what the adjustment of the lumpsum could contribute to this. Unfortunately, that did not happen satisfactorily and therefore this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a broad shared need in both politics and education to achieve more education money towards teachers;]] [[Whereas the current lumpsumsystematic money earmarked for teachers by school authorities may be spent on other matters;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the effects of the whole of the lecturer's lumpsum and to share the results with the Chamber for the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-556]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u6	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now turn to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA. Right? Yes, Mr. Van Meenen, they're watching where and who you're all talking to. Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's nothing wrong with left-wing friends. Mr. Chairman. We have indeed talked extensively about adequacy and efficiency. We have already tabled our motions to the budget, so I will not do that again. I do have questions for the Minister about equal opportunities. This is an issue which is very topical and which we have already discussed extensively, including during this debate. I highly recommend everyone to see the documentary Classes of HUMAN. It's very beautiful and impressive. The Minister also recognised during this debate that the existing problems caused him concern, that Corona has increased the existing ones and that, unfortunately, it does matter who your parents are for the opportunities you get at school. And what I'm struggling with, and I'm just saying that in all honesty, and that's what we've been discussing more often, is how we're now assessing whether this minister's commitment on this subject is sufficient, if we don't know what the zero measurement is and if we don't know what the effectiveness of that extra commitment is. I am struggling with that, because I think it is an incredibly important subject, which I do not think we should accept. So my question to the Minister is: do we really know where those delays are growing at the moment and what it takes to walk them in; do we really have that in view? And does the Minister think that the measures announced and already taken are really enough to remove what is happening now, this growing inequality of opportunity? That is my question to the Minister, and I would very much like an answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66. No? Then I will go to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD. No, I didn't. Well, okay. I'm not used to it from you guys. And all those short speeches, I think it's great. Then I will look at the Minister, because the motions are copied and distributed, and then you can reply immediately, I think. We'll wait for the motions for a moment. I now give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Chamber for this VAO, and I will pass the questions by the spokesperson and also assess the motions. First of all, Mrs Westerveld, who once again asked questions about the financial reserves. Now not of the partnerships, because we have indeed already taken very concrete steps in this direction, but now more of the regular education: how do we deal with this and when? After discussing with each other what this alert value might be, it is now officially used as an signalling value, and it is also immediately agreed with the inspection that it can be used immediately when it comes to monitoring the schools. You know that we will first look at an x-number or x-percent number of schools that are up there, so that will be put into effect immediately, even in this calendar year. In addition, I have indicated that we are working on a legal provision, so that we can take even more disciplinary action. Of course more time goes on, but we will, of course, keep you informed of the progress made. So we're gonna get to work on that. And, of course, we have also talked recently about a number of facilities that are sometimes not optimally in order in schools. Well, those reserves could, of course, be used very well for that. That is a hint in the direction of the schools that do not have that in order and also have reserves. With regard to the vso and for more than 18 years may stay in a school. I have indeed brought this to your attention both in writing and orally in our administrative consultations, in accordance with the agreements with you. I know that this has also been promoted on websites of representative bodies, such as the LECSO. I shall be putting this back on my agenda in my next meeting, as I have already said before tomorrow, because of course it is very unfortunate that this will continue to come back. And if there are very specific cases, you know that I also very much like to receive them. Then perhaps we can also make more targeted interventions, because space is there and can also be used. Mr Kwint is always very consistent in his contributions, and I commend him on that. He indicated that he would like more money to go to education. Well, he knows that during this cabinet period the education was also served by the cabinet, because both structural and occasional extra money went there, also compared to the previous cabinet period. And I will not say it to anyone, not to the SP but also to other groups, that they also wish for a new cabinet period. We sometimes see them in certain election programmes that have already seen the light of day. The motion in part No. 556 I don't recommend. We worked it out in accordance with what we said at the time. I know from Mr Kwint that he did not think this was enough, but we simply want to move forward, even after the debate we have had, with the proposals we have made. Then we consider the previous motion dismissed. If the Chamber feels otherwise, I can see it. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs van den Hul on equal opportunities. That also gives me the opportunity to express my deep appreciation for the documentary that has been launched. I already see a potential prize winner in that, if I may be so bold as to judge that. As you know, we know which schools are covered by the official standards of schools where there are many pupils who need additional support, because they are also simply covered by the criteria of educational disadvantage policy. That's one. There are, of course, schools that we always monitor very specifically. In addition, we have focused on ensuring that education has received extra money in this corona time to address the gaps that have arisen, which are wider than just in these schools. We've done that in two ways. We have done so by making money available for summer schools, winter schools, extra teaching time and so on. And we did that last week, we also discussed this in our general consultation by making extra money available for the p.o., vo and mbo so that we can work together to get extra hands in the school and there can be extra support. We are now following this by monitoring this very closely. The inspection's done that three times. The last one was delivered last week. In addition, we are going to monitor each month through monitoring, which I have also indicated to you, wider than only in the schools that we already know have the predicate that they are getting extra money to fight the backlogs. So we're really going to work on that in a very targeted way. Do we always have everything in view? Of course, that always remains a complicated question to answer. But we do the maximum, even in this corona time, to follow this and to support schools where necessary. We will, of course, take the results into account in the times at which we report to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u10	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-40.u11	We will vote on this motion next Tuesday.
