ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u1	The debate is now on the interplay of Mr Kox on the implementation of Mr Kox's motion 35431, paragraph D. on a temporary rental stop for both the social sector and the free sector. This interview was given leave earlier this afternoon and Mr Kox's interview questions were brought to the attention of the members and the Minister. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. The first-term speaking time for the interpreter is set at a maximum of five minutes, and in second-term speaking time for the interpreter and any other speakers at a maximum of two minutes. I also inform the Chamber that it is customary not to interrupt the interpretant in its first term. You can put your questions to Mr Kox and the Minister in second term. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. May I thank the Chamber for having this conversation? And may I thank the Minister for her willingness to be present today? We are now discussing an urgent matter, the explicit request made by this Chamber, to the government on 21 April last, to allow a temporary stop in the social and the free sector as an emergency measure in corona time. Implementation of this motion would directly affect the vast majority of the more than 3 million tenants in our country to whom a rent increase has been announced on 1 July. Implementation of the motion means that approximately 400 million government figures will remain in the wallet next year with the tenants. That gives them some air and helps them to endure this unexpected and profound crisis. In all its simplicity, the implementation of this motion is very much in line with the government's other generic emergency measures. There is broad agreement on these measures, including in this Chamber. The government says that in order to curb this crisis, it must do whatever is necessary, however different it may be from what is customary to do. That's a good thing. Making it possible for a temporary rental stop fits perfectly with that. It is a simple measure with direct effect, without bureaucracy and with foreseeable consequences. Such a generic scheme is all the more appropriate because an above average proportion of Dutch tenants are in a significantly worse financial position than the average Dutch citizen in this crisis. Before the start of the corona crisis, according to the Nibud, a quarter of all rental households were already financially trapped. Meanwhile, according to the Quality Centre Housing Corporations Rental Sector, there are already 360,000 corporate tenants whose income has become uncertain as the corona crisis continues for a long time. A quarter of the other corporate tenants are already worried. The longer the crisis lasts, the greater the likelihood that their revenues will also become uncertain, says the quality centre. A large part of the tenants in the free sector are also struggling, according to the Nibud often pays a disproportionate part of the income in rent and is taxed even more heavily by the upcoming rent increase. The motion adopted gives them all a modest but relevant buffer space. Although the Minister dissuaded the motion in April, she told the Chamber to consider how the motion could be implemented. We are now six weeks away and only four weeks away from 1 July. The Minister has written two long letters to this Chamber, but she has not yet given a clear explanation of the operative part of the motion: as an emergency measure, to allow a temporary break in rent for the social and free sector. Today, I hope that the Minister will give that clarity in her answers to my interplay questions. As you said, the Minister received these questions in good time, and so did the members of the Chamber. The Minister does not have to go into the tailor-made work already agreed in previous years to assist tenants with major financial problems: fine thing, especially continue with it, she has the green light. But this Chamber was aware of that standing policy of specific measures when it said yes to the possibility of a temporary rental stop as a generic measure. It's not very complicated, Mr. Chairman. This Chamber wants both the specific policy for certain tenants to remain possible and a temporary generic measure for all tenants to be possible. Hence the simple question to the Minister: does she do it or does she not do it, namely what the Chamber specifically asked her on 21 April? It would be a serious pleasure not only to us here, but especially to many outside, especially the 3 million rental houses. For them now help all the bits. The Minister does not need to repeat that there are shadows on a generic arrangement. We know that. The arguments on this matter were widely exchanged on 21 April, after which the Court took its decision. The Minister also does not need to refer to her consultation with the Lower House. We all follow that with great interest. The government has an independent relationship with the Upper House. On the basis of good traffic between government and parliament, the government is in principle obliged to carry out motions adopted here. There are two possible exceptions to that rule. The government wants to do it, but can't do it or the government can do it, but doesn't want to do it. In the first case, there is a real weighting here, in the second a political one. However, the Minister has not so far invoked both exceptions. It would therefore be nice if, at the end of this debate, the Minister would undertake, after reconsidering, to comply with the explicit request made by this Chamber and therefore, as an emergency measure, to allow a temporary rental stop in any way, so that the rent increase on 1 July would not have to be allowed to continue. Mr President, I look forward to the Minister's reply to the questions I put to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Minister, will you be able to answer directly? Yeah? Let's wait for the cathedral. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Kox for his introduction, for his explanatory statement and for his questions which have already reached me yesterday afternoon. I think it is very good that we are talking about this today. In fact, the essence of the matter is that Mr Kox asks what I have done to implement the motion. The questions asked by Mr Kox concern the process and the discussions that have taken place with the landlord organisations and tenant organisations and other ministries. I did, of course, as I promised before the vote on the motion. The essence of the outcome of all the consultations I have had on this issue is that a generic measure would not be effective. That is why I have chosen, as I have also notified in writing to your Chamber, measures that help tenants in trouble. I have opted for a step-by-step approach. So we are also going to monitor very well the extent to which this is being applied. Of course I have to do this in consultation with the landlords, but also on the basis of the signals I get from tenants about whether or not they can hear their problems. The next step is that in August I have a better picture of the applied rent increase. Then I can also see whether there is any reason to take additional measures. I always want to look for a solution that can count on support, here in this Chamber and also in the House of Representatives. Such a step-by-step approach takes time. I also think it's justified to take that time. The conversations I have had show that the number of signals from tenants in trouble is still relatively small. If I weigh that and keep monitoring, I can continue to look carefully and responsibly at what it would mean for possible support from the Empire and for how the landlords deal with it. Mr President, so far as I am concerned. I shall now answer the questions put in writing by Mr Kox, one by one. The first question is: how could such a temporary rental stop be achieved? If you want to fill that out, there are several options. As Mr Kox also points out, it is indeed possible to do so by means of a friendly agreement. You then conclude an agreement with landlords, in which it is agreed that rent increase is postponed for a certain period. That is also the route I have chosen in my proposal to make it legally possible for there to be a temporary rent reduction. That's in line with this way. If you choose to regulate a rental stop completely legally, two different regimes are needed. Then one is needed for the free rental sector, because that concerns the Civil Code. There is therefore a need for one in the regulated rental sector. Then it can be done by ministerial arrangement. Mr Kox's second question consisted of a number of elements, a to e, all of which are reflected in the consultations held with the various organisations involved. I have discussed all the options that would have been available with landlords and discussed the main advantages and disadvantages of both options. This means that the landlords have also been able to indicate what consequences such options would have for them. From this I note that at the moment a relatively small group of tenants, about 0.5% to 2% of the tenants, are reporting with a payment risk. These are mainly people with small jobs or flex workers. The cabinet's commitment is, of course, aimed at supporting those incomes at the front. There is also a large group of tenants depending on their benefit or pension. Nothing's changing for them at the moment. Often the rent allowance compensates for the rent increase. That is therefore also relevant. As I said, we will know more about the economic aftermath and income development in August. Then I know more, thanks to the monitoring of how landlords have dealt with the problems and monitoring of tenants with payment problems. All calls and the weighting of all these options show that the drafting of a generic measure, both for regulated and liberalised rentals, really requires more time in that step-by-step approach. So I would also like to know how this rent increase actually worked out and how the economic outlook is developing. That was not clear at the beginning of the corona crisis. In other words, I want to keep my finger on the wrist and not rule out any solution, but in the meantime I want to put my best bet on meeting tenants who are in trouble. In order to do justice to Mr Kox, I would like to comment a little more on the sub-questions he has put. I've discussed all the different options with the landlord's organizations. This involved the legal freezing, postponing rent increases, making agreements on rent increases, making agreements on customization, a possible common fund, structural cooperation between landlords. I understand that the various landlord organisations themselves have also expressed their views on the various options to this Chamber. I would also point out that the motion was adopted on 21 April. Rent increases must be reported at least two months in advance. That means that many of the letters for tenants were actually already out the door when the motion was passed. That is, of course, also a relevant fact for me. The landlords have already given that clarity and are also faced with a number of challenges, to invest, to maintain homes and to build new homes. They must, of course, have their plans ready in good time. Some members of the Chamber last time drew the parallel with other emergency measures taken by the Cabinet, including supporting the incomes of flex workers and businesses. Mr Koolmees, who is taking generic and unfocused measures, was then discussed. That is true, but we are all financing these measures from the treasury, from the public debt, while a freezing of rents is, of course, about money that could otherwise be used for other purposes. That would no longer be possible if the rent increase were no longer to be levied. Then there is the question of compensation. It is true that Mr Kox himself said in his introduction that the amount of EUR 400 million is structural. In addition, we would not reach everyone, because of course there are also landlords who rent less than 50 properties and do not pay a landlord's tax. So you couldn't reach them with that. But again, that 400 million, which would go to all tenants, is no longer available for maintenance, for sustainability, for new construction and also not for moderation of the rent, because that is of course a slice that you get from the funding. I have also, of course, consulted with the House Union on the position of the tenants. Several points emerged from this. The Housing Association would like tenants to have an enforceable right to a rent appropriate to the income. The Woonbond received many signals from single tenants who, on the basis of the Social Rental Agreement, had expected the agreement between the parties to qualify for a rent reduction, but did not receive it. That is in itself separate from the whole issue of corona, but I told the House Union that it would be good to look at it. It is an effect that seems unexpectedly detrimental to single people. So we have to pick up those signals. That's what the House Union wants, and so does Aedes. Then we need to see if we can fit a sleeve there. The Woonbond has also indicated that if a generic rental measure is taken, which can only be accompanied by compensation through the landlord levy because of the impact on investment capacity as I just outlined it. That was also recognised by the House Union. The third question from the Kox was: is it true that the tailor-made proposals referred to by the Minister have been agreed a long time ago? That's not right. At first, at the start of the corona crisis, Mrs Van Veldhoven, who replaced me then, made arrangements with landlords to apply customization. On the occasion of a motion, I implemented these arrangements with the landlords. So I have really given this more detail. On this basis we also know how many percent of the tenants already claim to have got into trouble. In order to make the new agreements more possible, I have therefore said that I would like to introduce an accelerated emergency law in order to allow temporary rent reductions. So that's all on top of what was planned before. That bill is coming to Parliament as a matter of urgency. Mr Kox's fourth question was actually about the relationship between a generic measure and so-called customization. From a legal point of view, customization does not prevent a generic solution, so that is absolutely correct, but there is, of course, a financial problem. That is why I have outlined in my reply the costs involved. I have already said that that is 400 million for a whole year of rent freezing, with a structural effect. That is money that cannot therefore be spent on other matters. The question whether the temporary rental discount I just announced is a specific discount and whether it is true that such a specific measure cannot be an alternative to a generic rental stop is, I think, a reversal of what I have just argued. The temporary rental discount is indeed an instrument that the landlord can use at the request of the tenant. It fits well with the agreements to help people in trouble. But at the moment, we don't know everything. We really need to know how this corona crisis is going to translate into economic conditions. I need to know more about how the rent increase is going to work out. I also need to know how the landlords manage to help tenants in trouble. In other words, are tenants who knocked on the door, who made the call to their landlords, actually helped? I have also called not only on landlords to take their responsibility, but also on tenants to say that if they do not find that hearing with their landlord, I have also told them to do so. So go to the Rent Commission, so we'll really know if the landlords keep their appointments. I will see to it that there is a hotline at the Rent Commission where tenants can deal with this complaint. I want to do that in the very short term. In everything, you always have to use hearing and hearing again. Landlords can sometimes have a reason why they cannot meet tenants' wishes. We also sometimes have very small landlords, private individuals, for whom renting a single property for example are their pension income. It is, of course, important to keep an eye on this. Mr Kox's sixth question concerns the implementation of the motion. I have outlined that the way I try to do that is a step-by-step approach. By taking steps and at the same time monitoring how things are going, I do my best to do justice to the wishes of the Chamber. The seventh question is whether I am prepared to respond in any way to the explicit request of the First Chamber to allow a temporary rental stop or otherwise to ensure that tenants in the social and the free sector are compensated for the rent increase they have announced. For that, I would like to repeat what I just said. If, as a result of the corona crisis, you are really experiencing a fall in income, then it may well be that it is compensated through the rent surcharge. I keep it in the rental domain for a while. Tenants who receive rent payment will be compensated for the annual rent increase anyway. So that deal's already there. In the case of employees, the collective agreement is normally applied. If this is not the case, it may well be that workers fall into one of the two schemes of colleagues: the NOW scheme or the Tozo scheme. In August, we traditionally always look at the purchasing power plates. Then, of course, from my position, I will pay very much attention to this group. Then we will also see whether it would be possible not via the route of the rent but via the route of the income compensation. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I have answered the questions put in writing and I have dealt with Mr Kox's contribution in the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u6	Mr President, before we begin the second term, would you like to allow a short suspension so that I can discuss with colleagues how we weigh the Minister's reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u7	Of course, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u8	Ten minutes, would that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u9	Then I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u10	Then we have now reached the second term of office. I inform Members that, in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself. Then you can put the motion to your right on the table. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u11	I give the floor to Mr Kox. Second-term speaking time is, as agreed, two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. The minister said we don't know everything yet. That's a sentence we've heard a lot in the last few months. And rightly so, because, as our Prime Minister says, on the basis of 50% information, we must take 100% decisions. That goes for this too. We don't know everything yet. The minister says that no large numbers of tenants have yet reported "I'm in trouble because of corona." But we don't know everything yet. What we do know is that the housing corporations themselves have said through their quality centre: 360,000 tenants now indicate in our surveys that they could be financially in trouble. 800,000 people, according to the Nibud, are financially trapped and are already saving up on everything to pay the rents. The Minister says that pensioners and people with benefits are not at risk. We'll just have to see that for a while, because it could just happen. So we don't know everything yet, but that doesn't mean that we couldn't act on the basis of the information we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u13	Of course, it's true that we don't know everything. The question is whether this is not always the case. But do you agree with me that at least we know that Aedes sent us a letter in which they said on behalf of the housing corporations that they support the Minister's policy? We don't know everything yet, but do you agree with me that IVBN has said that they have so far received reports of 1% of tenants related to corona? Does Mr Kox agree with me that we do know these two things?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u14	We have indeed received a letter from Aedes, which states that, ceteris paribus I shall say, so under the same conditions, the corporations say: if we have to pay one, we have no money for the other. What we didn't get an answer to, uh, there was one of the questions that was aimed at, uh, is: did the minister also say, "if you freeze the rents now and I postpone part of the landlord's tax for this year, uh, we're postponing a lot of taxes right now, uh, uh, can we talk to you guys?" Then Mr Van der Burg and I will know that Aedes would have said straight away: we will certainly have to talk to us, because we have wanted this for a very long time, as much as a large part of Parliament actually wants it for a long time. The second is that indeed a group of institutional investors says: we get few complaints. At the same time, a large institutional investor, Invest-NL, said that we are so sorry that we are postponing the rent increase ourselves for a year. Those are signals, too. And third: the House Union, by the Minister mentioned as standing on her side, has a clear position: the motion of the First Chamber will have to be carried out. Look at the website of the House Union, there it is. The House Association wants much more, but above all it wants to do what this Chamber has said. That's three other proofs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u15	I am pleased that Mr Kox indirectly gives me another argument, something we already know, namely that even institutional investors have indicated in a number of cases, not to increase the rent. That's consistent with the Minister's story. We know that the corporations support the minister's policy, we know that the Association of Institutional Investors says to see few problems and we know that some individual institutional investors do not increase the rents. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u16	In this room, the concept of Dutch mathematics just comes into your mind. Our King Willem I was very capable at this. If one investor says not to increase the rents, the argument for colleague Van der Burg is to say: there is no problem. If someone else says he doesn't hear anything, there's no problem. If the House Union says: freeze the rents but, then Mr Van der Burg has not heard it, but if Aedes writes a letter "if we don't get more money, we can't write the rent increase" then he hasn't heard it either. You can reason like that, but it doesn't make any sense, and it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u17	Mr Van der Burg, one short question. You will be given your own speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u18	You saw me sit down, Mr. Chairman, because I thought I was done. But Mr Kox chooses a special reasoning. I did not indicate that there would be no problems, I just indicated that we have more information than Mr Kox suggests. And I have indicated that the Minister's main interlocutors, also mentioned in the motion, support the Minister's policy. That's what I said, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u19	And Mr Van der Burg forgets the 800,000 people who, according to the Nibud, are already in financial straits, whose situation is not improving, but is deteriorating, and that the housing corporations themselves say: 360,000 of our tenants now indicate that they are in financial difficulties because of the corona crisis. That is a rather larger group than the one the Minister is talking about. Once again: for that group everything has to happen, we have customization for that, but this Chamber wants to do something more, namely a generic arrangement for all people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u20	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u21	I will continue my speech. The Minister says that for a generic measure, if I were to consider it, more time is needed. But sometimes you don't have that time. The time is now: 1 July the rents are increased to say on 1 August: well, that wasn't really wise, we should have done that then. In this case, it is better to say: we must make that decision at the moment. It costs 400 million, it's not a structural issue, it's an issue for now. And the money is available in the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u22	Are you almost at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u23	I'm almost at the end of my speech. I had hoped that the Minister would understand that this Chamber has made an explicit request and that this Chamber is not known for saying a few weeks later: well, forget it, we have something else. I had hoped that the Minister would respond in any way to the wishes of the Chamber. I note that this is not happening. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Vendrik, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Crone, Mr Koffeman, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van der Linden and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the request of the Chamber of 21 April 2020 to allow the government, as an emergency measure in the corona crisis, a temporary lease freeze for the social sector and the free sector;]] [[heard the answers of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the interplay questions on the implementation of motion 35431, D;]] [[heard the deliberations;]] [[Whereas it is appropriate, in the proper movement between government and parliament, for the government to carry out, in principle, a motion of the Chamber;]] [[Notes that the Minister may carry out the operative part of the motion but does not wish to do so because she does not consider a generic rental measure proportionate and effective;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to implement the motion adopted by allowing, in any way, a temporary rental stop or to inform the Chamber that the Government does not wish to carry out the operative part of the motion;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35431-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u24	I think this Chamber also knows that there is already a shortage of good rentals at the moment. It's about start-ups at the rental market. It's about a lot of students, but it's also about the elderly. The question from the CDA Group is: what are the effects for that target group if the motion that Mr Kox is now tabling is going to have its effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u25	That will depend entirely on what else the government is doing on that point. If the government says "the rents will not be increased by 1 June and look further ahead," then in particular the corporations have a big problem. If the Minister says 'because of a crisis that you as corporations cannot do anything about, I think it would be better to freeze the rents; so you can call me for compensation because of this measure; for example, you can push through part of the landlord's tax in 2020 or not to implement it', then I think there is no effect. The effect will then be positive on balance, as fewer tenants will be put in trouble. It is up to the government to find that solution, but that solution is there and your party also knows that that solution is there. I am actually convinced that if the Minister came up with that solution, your party would also say: it is a little early, but for next year we would have foreseen it anyway, so do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u26	I believe that the SP Group and the CDA Group have already agreed on the landlord levy in 2013. A large number of parties that are now under the motion have introduced the landlord levy. We saw the misery coming; we already saw that there would be too few homes for students, young people and parents. We therefore agree on this, but through you I also received an answer from the co-signators to the question about the landlord's tax. There was a certain position on this at the time. We agree that that was a freak back then. Then the question. That's a like-dan question. No, the question is: what cover do all the parties under this motion give to the cabinet? I am not talking about you on behalf of the SP Group, because we agree on the landlord levy, but on all parties. The question then is: what cover do you provide?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u27	This motion was tabled on the day when the First Chamber dealt with a very large package of government emergency measures. The Minister of Finance then told us, "I'm doing something different than I normally do. Normally I say, "I don't have money for anything," so where's the cover? But in this case, I promise to cover the expenses, no matter how much it takes." We in the Chamber supported all these plans, but we also said that we still have an additional plan, so that we have 3 million tenants who, according to all the studies, are determined to have at least a worse starting position than the average Dutch citizen, who are also a little prepared. That'll cost 400 million. That 400 million has to be covered in some way. But I think that a member of our finance minister's party, who says 'whatever it takes', is now difficult to put on the table the argument that we should have special cover if it is for not going through the rent increase. That won't be necessary. It can be covered. The landlord's tax is an option, but if the Minister can conclude agreements with the Minister of Finance in a different way, that's okay. The fact remains that an adopted motion should in principle be carried out by the government, even though a party did not vote for it. Isn't that what the CDA colleague has to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u28	We do not disagree on this point when it comes to factuality. I was concerned that you in fact indicate that there is coverage through the landlord's levy. That's what you're here for. You speak on behalf of all the groups. That means that all the political groups that sign your motion explicitly say: it is not a motion without financial cover. But I hear from your mouth that all these groups think that the landlord levy is the solution to pick that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u29	You have smaller ears than I do, but you can't hear that, because there's nothing about that in this motion. As I said, this motion was tabled at the time when the Minister of Finance came to this Chamber to say 'whatever it takes to get through this crisis'. A large majority of this Chamber believes that it should not continue from the rent increase to whatever it takes. That's $400 million. It is up to the Minister, in consultation with her colleagues in the cabinet, to find a solution to this problem. I hope the Minister understands that if the motion were to be re-adopted, or if this motion were to be adopted, it would be a very clear sign in the direction of the minister and the government that something must be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u30	The 50PLUS Group also endorses the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u31	Thank you very much and of course, Mr. Van Rooijen. Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That's the case. Then I'll start with Mr Van Strien. Speaking hours are two minutes tops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. This minister excels in solving non-existent problems. Think, for example, of abolishing the consultative referendum, because the Dutch people once made a statement that was not in line with a scary cabinet idea. Think, for example, of the following fantasies of this minister to postpone the elections in the Netherlands. Maybe she thinks it's even better to abolish it. It would be better if this minister were to deal with the real problems in this country. Such a problem is that the crisis caused by the Wuhan virus has caused problems for large parts of the population. And tenants, for the most part, are among those population groups that have been put in trouble. It is a problem that can be solved in a technically simple way, namely with a generic rental stop, at least partially. The PVV Group really does not understand why this minister does not immediately deal with this problem in a democratic manner and asks her to carry out the motion adopted in this Chamber. A step-by-step solution is in no way the execution of this motion, which requests a generic rental stop. We have co-signed Mr Kox's new motion and will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u34	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group did not support the Kox motion adopted on 21 April. We had two reasons for this. First of all, we really like customization better. Is it really the case, for example, that groups that earn above-average earnings have a permanent job with the government and live in the free sector could not now carry an increase in rent? Or look at crooked people in the social sector. We all have the view that they hold on to social housing when that would not be necessary. It's not like they couldn't have a rent increase. We don't think that's right. The second point for us was: do we have to table a motion here in this House that was rejected in the House of Representatives just before that? I'm sure it's possible. I'm not denying that to Kox, but I don't think it's wise. It's not our primary task. The political debate is primarily with the Lower House. If we look now at what the Minister has done so far to protect tenants who have got into trouble, I think that is a lot. If you continue to argue, is it not really too soon, I would also ask the Minister to say that the Minister is not going to carry out that motion? Because she wants to take a lot of steps. We just heard that in the background the landlord levy still plays a role; that was also debated in this house. Isn't Prince's Day the right time? Then we say that we have the legitimate desire to protect the tenants at the time of corona, which we introduce customization for, and there will be new legislative proposals to protect them, but the minister wants to see this in conjunction around Prinsjesdag. And isn't it a possibility that I would ask Kox to hold his second motion for a moment and not have it put to the vote? We all know how the Chamber judged the first motion, but can we look at these various elements in conjunction and then come back after the summer? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u35	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u36	I know Mr Pijlman's reasons for not voting in favour of the motion. He has a different view of that. That is his right, but the question to Mr Pijlman is what we do with adopted motions. Is it pick and choose? If you did not vote for it yourself, say to the government: do not implement, do not implement! Or are you saying that I am a democrat, that is even in the name of my party, and if a motion is adopted unexpectedly, do I think democracy requires the government to carry out the motion unless it cannot, or unless it really does not want to? But then there's a political dispute between the Chamber and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u37	Of course I understand. I have just pointed out that I think it is unwise for this House to repeat the political debate that has just been held in the House of Representatives. I do not think that is our primary task. I said it's okay. So you have a point, but doesn't the Minister carry out that motion? I'm more nuanced about that than you are. It is certainly taking a whole series of steps which at least belong to the spirit of the Kox motion. There will also be a new bill to make rental discounts really possible. I think that is really in line with your motion. So I say to you that, step by step, the Minister is coming a long way in your direction. Now that you have tabled a second motion, I would ask you to hold on to it for a moment, so that we have that overall overview. We also have to deal with the landlord levy in the budget, which has been discussed by a number of people. We therefore know how the corona really works, but if we do that now, we will certainly break a gap in the co-operative budget. Then it could also be the construction of 22,000 homes for students, for the elderly, for starters. I don't think that's necessary right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u38	But the question was, and can we agree on it: motions of the Chamber are carried out by the government. And Mr Pijlman says: well, I see that a number of steps have already been taken. But the motion is being carried out; that is also not negotiable with D66? And not depending on whether you were for or against a particular choice of this Chamber: if a motion has been passed, then we are all in favour of the government being obliged to execute that right or left. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u39	Well, state law isn't like "yes or no." This reflects other possibilities, which you yourself have quite rightly pointed out in your speech. But I'm putting on that nuance. Of course, I agree with you that the Minister has an obligation to get as close to an adopted motion as possible. I think she does, too. And that's what's between us. For example, the draft law to allow temporary rent reductions is being put forward more quickly. That's coming all the way in your direction. And then I think you shouldn't be too pushy. Let us look at the whole interplay for a moment, and then the Minister will come back to that at Princess Day and you will have the full right with all of us to find another piece of it. That seems balanced to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u40	If you don't mind, we're gonna repeat ourselves, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u41	Yes, Mr. Chairman. My wife doesn't want me to be dreary, and neither do my grandchildren, so I'm not trying to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u42	But there's a core of truth in that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u43	No, Mr Kox has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u44	But to say that this is about the generic scheme this Chamber has asked for, I must be very open-minded. There is far too much in between, and so does Mr Pijlman. But it's been tried. It is important that D66 also says: adopted motions are carried out by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u45	Then we go to Mr... Mr. Pijlman short?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u46	I have said that adopted motions are carried out in principle, but state law also gives the government opportunities not to... And this minister also has to do with a GroenLinksmotion in the House of Representatives, and a CDA motion in which customization is advocated. Yes, you put something on top of that, and I think the Minister is taking all kinds of steps in your direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u47	Mr. Pijlman, stand still; Mr. Crone has another interruption on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u48	Yes, because first of all I would also like to say with Mr Pijlman that the Minister is already doing a lot of things and is certainly going to do a lot of things, whether the motion is being adopted or not, after today until Prinsjesdag. She herself talked about monitoring in August. But my question is: of course, it cannot do one thing again in August or in the Millions Note, namely to reverse the rent increase of today. So if you do, you throw out an important tool from your toolbox, and that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u49	What's your question, Mr. Crone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u50	That it would be a shame if that toolbox didn't have that important instrument...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u51	... question mark. Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u52	Yes. Moreover, I understood from the Minister that it had to do with deadlines, that it would be very difficult from now on. But you are right: I accept that rent increase as of July 1st, because there is clearly customization. And the people who need protection, who are protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u53	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u54	And I also mentioned groups of which I say: come on, it doesn't have to be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u55	No, but those people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u56	I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Minister has also made it clear: I do it on a voluntary basis, people can come forward. But if the landlord doesn't do it, nothing will happen. And then this tool is out of the coffin and nothing can happen. So it is true that people have been affected, after which you say: if only I had helped them on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u58	No, I didn't, because I explained to you that we would much rather see customization than generic discounts on 1 July. My comments are now directed at this. We're in this situation now. Mr. Kox is tabling a new motion with you and others. I will say: let's hold it for a moment; the Minister is busy. And later, August she mentioned in first term, is a good time to weigh everything again. Let's give her that chance, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u59	But bespoke...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u60	Mr Crone, your third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u61	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Customization is fine, but volunteering isn't good. And volunteering gives you out of your hands when you do this, because then any landlord can say: yes, good, I'll do that 5.5% anyway. You know these examples, too, I know, that the rents are going up by 5.5%, and that is no longer possible. So you're handing out an instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u62	Mr Pijlman, and then we go to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u63	Yeah, this is a repeat of moves anyway. We don't think that rent stop is necessary for everyone. Those for whom it is necessary will be helped. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u64	I heard Mr Pijlman say, but also the Minister, that we may be able to resolve this within the framework of Princess Day, the Tax Plan and what is more. Can Mr Pijman tell me how he can fix this well for this very specific group in the general framework of the Tax Plan? I don't see that. The rent increase has already taken place. It is almost impossible to achieve what the Minister and you have in mind through tax measures or other general measures for this particular group. That seems to me to be more daydreaming than realism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u65	I think that during the General Financial Reviews we discussed the question of purchasing power in detail. You know as well as I do that this rent increase, including the one on 1 July, is in the purchasing power picture that has also been dealt with and accepted here. So I don't see your point. It is certainly very sensible to weigh up all these developments once a year, and I fear that there are still a lot of socio-economic developments ahead of us and to establish a package here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u66	Mr Van Rooijen. You're unheard of, so you need to repress the foot pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u67	Yeah, I'm good at kicking, but on the football field! Once again, in the case of purchasing power measures under Princess Day, I am talking about the coming and not the previous plan, which is not to compensate for a very specific increase in rents in such a way through tax measures which are generally applicable. We don't have renter tax. We do have a landlord's tax, but we don't have income tax for tenants. That's why you can't solve this specifically. The only thing I can say honestly is look at the rent allowance. But everyone knows that this has its own complicated consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u68	Mr. Pijlman, and then we go to Mr. Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u69	I don't deny it's complicated. Anyway, his income charts. How exactly does it work out? You know that much better than I do. But I think it is really good to review all these developments once a year, to consider whether you want to continue with the customization and whether you want to reduce the landlord's tax further.The government has already taken a number of steps to do so once a year. My question to others and also to you is therefore to stick to it now. Then let's look at it again. And yes, that does mean: July 1st is July 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u70	Mr Van Rooijen, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u71	Let me put it another way. Suppose I don't see it yet, but suppose that a general package for this group would be possible. Are you prepared to support that? Because then we get closer to "in any way." Again, I don't see it yet. I haven't heard that from the Minister either. Maybe we'll get some clarity about that. But I'm asking you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u72	I can only repeat what I said. The Minister is implementing a number of measures. It also consults with different parties on how to proceed. There are still a lot of socio-economic problems coming towards us around corona. I wish it weren't over with the group that's in trouble right now. We all know that. Let us look at this in conjunction with the benefits, the purchasing power picture and the rent subsidy, so that we can protect the people who need it in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u73	As an optimist, I think that next week Mr Pijman can also vote in favour of this second motion, because it says: in any way. When we were just sitting together as signatories, we said: that is the handle for the Minister and the Government to carry out this motion anyway. If you are talking about crooked people, three modes and those who are going to benefit from them, I am not, of course, going to be able to do so. But if the Minister and the Government "in any way" start working on it and solve that problem for you, the motion will probably be adopted in Parliament next week too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u74	I'm always happy when people are optimistic. The Minister is taking steps towards Mr Kox; I would like to wait and see how she appreciates the motion. But I also asked you: would it not be wise to weigh that again later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u75	I want those nearly 400,000 people who are already in trouble or who are in danger of getting into trouble, those tenants, to have a solution before 1 July. That is why I support this with all my heart and heart and give the Minister an opportunity to really do this. Do you agree with me? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u76	The short response is: we agree that the people who need help must be helped. I think the Minister is doing very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u77	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Then I'll take a look at my left side to see if any of the speakers have come forward. That is not the case. Then I will go to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u78	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I'll take care of my colleague Margreet de Boer, who can't be here this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. As Mr Kox explained very nicely, the tenants in the Netherlands are more than on average vulnerable. That is certainly true at this time of the corona crisis. And as Mr Crone has just explained very nicely, not letting the rent increase continue on 1 July is an important tool to provide this vulnerable group, the tenants of the Netherlands, some extra buffer and protection at this difficult time. I have not really understood from the Minister's answer why this cannot be one of her options. She talks about further information, August, September next year. Then Mr Crone is absolutely right that we have given up an important instrument, while we are talking about vulnerable people who would like to give you some extra support. That is what Mr Kox's motion was about, and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has fully supported it. The same applies to the motion that Mr Kox has now tabled. It is ill-advised that the Minister does not really want to carry out the motion, while there is a clear ruling in the Chamber. That is why my group also supports the rapporteur's amendment tabled today by Mr Kox and his colleagues. I hope the Minister understands that the largesse in the motion must be answered from her side by a movement our way. Then we can finish the debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Then Mr Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. With all due respect to all signatories, I see this as the Kox motion in particular. That is one of the reasons why I always look at Mr Kox with a mild smile, because those are my idols, of those people who continue consistently because they want to achieve their goal and really take every chance for it. That's how I know SP'ers and that's how I met Mr. Kox. It makes me very happy. We often disagree completely, but I am delighted by people who are consistently fighting for certain points. They seize every opportunity, including the corona crisis we are dealing with now. That is already clear in Mr Kox's story, because that is not specifically about people affected by the corona crisis. The numbers he mentions are numbers of people who have for years indicated that they can't come up with their money in relation to the rent they have to pay. Those aren't the numbers that belong to people who can't pay rent because of the corona crisis. I think it is good to have the debate with each other. In my view, the Minister will shortly be coming to the Chamber with a proposal on rent freeze and the possibilities in that context. This was a motion, linked to the corona crisis, because that was the bill that was before it. Then I think you should look at measures that are intended for people who are victims of the corona crisis. Then it is not appropriate to apply such a generic measure. I'm extraordinary for customization myself. That is also reflected in the Minister's proposals. It seems to me that this room is for that, too. I have heard many of you in the past argue for customisation, especially for the weak in society, for example when it comes to the WMO, for example when it comes to other support measures. That should be the issue here. However, Mr Kox outlines a contradiction which I do not think is contradictory because he forgets a variant. He says that the Minister can carry out the motion, but does not want it, or does not want it, but cannot. But there is a third option, namely that the Minister is doing her best to implement the motion as well as possible. We have just heard our colleague from D66 explain that this is exactly what the Minister is doing. It meets the Chamber in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u81	I have the same question to Mr Van der Burg. Does the VVD Group think that motions adopted here should be carried out by the government, unless that is not possible? I have not heard anyone speak against the tailor-made approach agreed by the Minister with the tenants' and landlord's organisations. Those measures were already in place, and they remain there. What this Chamber has said is that we want a generic measure on top of that. I have not heard from my colleague, Mr van der Burg, who is in favour of tailor-made work, what is not being fought here, and his group has not heard about the generic regulation which the Minister for Social Affairs has told us here, on the same day, namely 21 April, because he did not have time for tailor-made work. The other measure was that the CO levy for large consumers was generically postponed. No major consumer has had to send a letter of "I don't come out with my income" because there was a generic arrangement. Why this particular dislike of a generic scheme when it comes to tenants, but not when it comes to all those other groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u82	No misunderstanding: there is no disgust. There is talk of what is best at the moment. In some cases customization is difficult or even impossible to achieve in the short term, and you opt for a generic measure. Here I have heard the Minister say: a generic measure is possible; a specific measure is better. And then I think the moment you can focus and take action, you should do that. That is exactly what I see the Minister do and hear say. That is why I am not in the same position as you are, and you are also saying that the measures are pre-corona-crisis measures. I have just heard the Minister say that there were a number of general points, which were also discussed with you by my temporary observer, which I went on to fill out in more detail on the occasion of the motion. I therefore believe that the Minister is giving substance to the motion. And then your first point. You asked me if I think business should be carried out. The First Chamber and the Second Chamber have laid down in the law of state that decisions of the Chamber must be implemented. And decisions are amendments or laws. If an amendment is adopted in this Chamber, a minister cannot say that I am wrong about it. At least, if the Minister says so, a letter should immediately go to a location not too far from here. When it comes to motions, Eerste Kamer and Tweede Kamer jointly find that they have been so laid down in the law of state that the minister or cabinet can look at whether and, if so, how they carry it out. So we have with each other not you and I specifically, but the First and the Second Chambers have set up the state law in such a way that the cabinet has room for manoeuvres.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u83	Sure. The cabinet has room to carry out the motion. That's the main rule. And I mentioned the two exceptions. The cabinet can say: I would like to carry out the motion, but I cannot execute it. Then we have a factual discussion and appreciation. Or the cabinet says I can carry out the motion, but I don't want to execute her. Then we have a political discussion. The cabinet can do so, but the Minister is of course wise enough to know that if there is a political contradiction between this Chamber and its policy, this will lead to a different ruling by this Chamber. But the question remains: does Mr Van der Burg think that adopted motions, whether he voted for them or against them, should be carried out according to the letter and the spirit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u84	Just one quick answer, Mr. Van der Burg, because I don't think you're gonna get out of it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u85	Mr Kox's optimism will appeal to Mr Gerbrandy, but I do not know if Mr Kox is right that, if the Minister chooses not to carry out this second motion, there will be another motion that will be adopted by this Chamber. So I do not agree with his conclusion, nor do I derive it from the text of this motion, nor from its signatories. But that will bring the future with it. I find this motion a special motion, because you say in this motion that you must carry out a previous motion from us. And you are now saying to D66 and in this case to the VVD, and no doubt to the CDA and the Christian Union: you should be in favour of this motion, because a motion was adopted at an earlier stage, albeit without your support, but by us. That's a bit of a weird reasoning, with all due respect. Because suppose, there will be a new coalition and the government parties, for example, put the coalition agreement to the vote in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. That's gonna get a majority. Let the government parties put the same document to the vote again, by means of a motion or other construct, and then Mr Kox says: listen, the coalition agreement was adopted a month ago by the Chamber, I was against it then, but now I am in favour of implementing the coalition agreement; I was against the landlord levy, but now I think the landlord levy should be implemented. That is not how I know Mr Kox; he will continue to fight the landlord tax until his death, I would almost say. And I think that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u86	Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u87	I was thinking that we all agreed here that adopted motions should be carried out by the government and that commitments made should be respected. I've been in this room for some time, and that's the rule. That is also the result of democracy. You can't say, "I just have to do what suits me." So it's nice to have everything written down in the Acts. I am going to reread Mr Van der Burg's speech and perhaps also discuss it with some VVD-State scholars. However, I think that he has now laid down a new variant of our state law, which is not necessarily supported by VVD-famous legal scholars, let me put it this way. But we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u88	Very briefly, Mr. Van der Burg, and then we'll go to Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u89	For the sake of clarity, I believe that decisions of the Chamber, First or Second, should be implemented, yet a motion is not a decision, but a ruling. That is the difference between motions and, for example, amendments or laws. And no misunderstanding: even if a law or an amendment has been adopted without the support of the VVD, it must be implemented, because democracy has spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u90	I didn't want to interrupt, but through you: it's getting too grumpy. This is really a cartel explanation of how motions are read. I'm just borrowing the term. Of course, there is no question that if a majority in a motion asks for something to be carried out, it will then be taken over in the literal legal text. That is the difference with an amendment. An amendment must not leave a cabinet out of the law. But a motion should be as loyal as possible to the cabinet, and if the cabinet has good reasons not to do so or not to do so entirely, then the cabinet reports it. That is what this Minister is doing, by the way. And then the Chamber, whether or not the same majority, decides what happens to it. But you're making a mess of it right now, so I think the chairman is on our side to defend the institution of First Chamber, Mr. Chairman. If we deal with this as you do now, Mr. Van der Burg, then we get: "I am not carrying out that motion!'. Remember your partymate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u91	Gerrit Salmon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u92	And you know how much criticism he's been getting. That was dedain for parliament. I explained last time that was because of the microphone...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u93	Exactly, that the dedain wasn't in the fact that this was hanging over his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u94	... but that made it so obvious that the population does not want the majority here to say: we want this, and that the cabinet then says "toilet paper."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u95	I now turn to Mr Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. No matter how long this minister will remain a minister, she will never say "bath paper" on any motion, no matter how much she disagrees with it. This Minister will never say that. This minister will always try to carry out motions of the Second or First Chamber as much as possible or to carry out them in full. I have heard the Minister and stated on paper that she does so. I therefore do not share the view of the Labour Party that the Minister has not carried out this motion. I do not therefore share the view of the signatories that the Minister did not implement this motion. I share the view expressed by my colleague, Mr D66, that the Minister has carried out this motion on a number of points. That is where you and I differ, not on whether or not the Minister has carried out this motion, but on the extent to which it has been implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u97	The question of whether the motion has been carried out and whether it has been sufficiently carried out is a correct substantive assessment that we can make different. But the cold fact that you dared to say that a coalition agreement must be implemented, including by the majority, does not make any sense. And that you also said at the beginning: a cabinet can dismiss a motion and do not have to carry it out... Fortunately, you take those words back now and we make our own assessment every time whether this motion has been carried out properly, sufficiently or not. That is a much better formulation than the one you chose at the beginning, so I am totally pleased with that. I hope you agree with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u98	I'll leave your conclusions to you. I note that the Minister is doing her utmost to fulfil the wishes of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u99	I'm going to see Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u100	It's just one big confusion, I think. I do not think it is so interesting whether Mr Van der Burg or Mr Pijlman thinks that Mr Kox's motion may be implemented step by step. I think the only relevance is whether Mr Kox and the co-signators of the motion think it is being implemented. That's one. The second is that you cannot escape saying that, if a motion has been passed, there is an obligation on the government to implement it. You say that if the government does not do so, there can be a sanction. That's right. We talked about that, too. There could be a sanction. We do not have it yet, but the motion has been adopted and must be implemented. Whether or not that sanction is applied is a second question. You say that until the penalty has been imposed, the government could say that it is not obliged to carry out the motion. That's where the confusion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u101	I am somewhat distancing myself from Mr Nicolaï's first remark, namely that the opinion of CDA, D66, VVD and Christian Union would not be relevant when it comes to whether or not the motion was implemented. First of all, that opinion is already relevant because you are presenting a conclusion to us today in a motion, namely whether or not that motion has been carried out. Then all 75 Members of Parliament have the right to have an opinion and the opinion of the VVD is as relevant as that of the Party for Animals. It doesn't matter. So if you have been against a motion, you can certainly have an opinion on whether that motion has been carried out. Two. All I have said is that there is no similar principle for amendments and laws as for motions. Some motions also do not lead to any policy change at all. For the filing of motions, we have chosen a wider spectrum than for laws and regulations. And we as the First Chamber, for example, do not have the right of amendment, whereby the First Chamber, if it wants something, sometimes has to take the flight. But the fact that we do not have the right of amendment also means that the Minister does not have to adapt legislation in the same way as would happen in the House of Representatives when an amendment is tabled there. But apart from that, I have already indicated to you that you and I believe that you are also a signatory of the motion for a resolution which disagrees on the conclusion, namely whether this Minister is not carrying out the motion. You say no, I say that she is doing very hard to shape the effects you want as much as possible in her policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u102	I'm beginning to hear a repeat. Mr. Nicolaï, you have a short interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u103	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I would like the VVD to take that view. That makes sense, too. It is also your job to bring that forward here, I would say. My point is that, when the majority adopts the new Kox motion, the majority finds that the previous motion has not been carried out. And that's essential. But I think we're repeating ourselves, so I just wanted to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u104	Once again, I distance myself from Mr Nicolaï's first remark, which says: I understand that the VVD is doing this and that is also your job. I believe that you and I have exactly the same task as Prime Minister, and that is to look at legality and efficiency and control the government. We can do that from a different perspective. Furthermore, Mr Nicolaï is quite right that, at the time when the motion before us today was adopted by the First Chamber, the Upper Chamber ruled by majority that the Minister had not carried out the motion. We agree on that. Finally, Mr President. I understand you're looking at me angry, but most of the words I'm saying are in response to interruptions I've been getting. Finally, I would like to say that the 400 million referred to here is not a one-off money. It's not like we're done with this 400 million. In the coming years, this will continue to work on the investment capacity of those who rent out housing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u105	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Then I'm going to see Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister sincerely for all the work she has done and for helping to get things moving, to face up to the problems and to solve them. But I'm still a little disappointed, because there's still too much volunteering in it. I also hear a bit of the undertone that it might not be that bad. The Minister also said: I still have to see in August if it is that bad and I get very few reports. I think that is a denial of the seriousness of the problem, although it is thanks to the cabinet. Because, of course, thanks to the cabinet, many people still have income support. It is already falling: the partner test is added. But a lot of people are going to be unemployed now. This certainly has to do with the corona crisis, because there are now people who are unemployed because of the corona crisis. So that exacerbates the problems that were already there or makes them more visible. In my group, therefore, there is really the greater fear that it will not be manageable if we do not do additional things. That's why there's no time to lose. Augustus is too late. The Millions note is too late, apart from the argument that we will no longer have that instrument in the coffin. Two. I also commend the Minister for seeing with us that the market is actually working very well here. The market works perfectly well, because the landlords can ask what they want. That's why a lot of people can't leave. As a result, the market does not function well, because real market forces mean: I rent a house, and I am dissatisfied or the rent is too high, then I go to another house. We can't do that here because of the cut-off on the market. The market must therefore be balanced by a strong government. I don't think the Minister wants to do that enough, but on the other hand he does. I have two questions about that. The Minister is now coming with the announcement of the law temporary rental discount. That is just an announcement, but I think it is a very important step forward that the Minister says: I am going to use an instrument in this market to strengthen the balance between tenants and landlords and to protect the tenants. I would therefore like to say to the Minister that we are helping you, because the majority of us are already allowed to do so. In principle, therefore, we are on the same page: you must make a correction on the market here. That should not be to the detriment of the willing landlords. They're already doing it. That's the advantage of what you've already done. You have mobilized maximum voluntary and co-operation. But by not taking the final step now, you are in fact rewarding the malicious landlords. I know them, because my kids all have friends and friends who all have to pay another 5% or more extra. They can't get out of that apartment. And one of the two partners now has less income as a self-employed person or becomes unemployed. So these people have nowhere to go, because then they have to pay even more rent. So you are prepared to correct the market, only I would say: do it now. We have indeed said that we are flexible. 0% is the most expensive. That's $400 million. No, because then less rent subsidies are needed. So let us be honest: there is also less rent subsidy against the 400 million burden. Mr Van der Burg nods; I am always very happy about that. So let's be honest. Let's be honest about what it costs and what it doesn't. That is why we have also said that variants are conceivable. Then do 1% instead of 0%. Or do it for a year and then let it live again. Now, that's the power of the law on the rent discount, which has yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u107	Mr. Crone, I have to hold on to the same speaking time for everyone. You are well over your two-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u108	I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. The rent discount is for one year. He'll be able to resurrect after that. Then it's not structural. We can look at the crooked. We can set a maximum rent. So take this to the cabinet. Then we'll hold the motion for a week, otherwise we'll vote on it next week. There are all kinds of variants conceivable. Then maybe the Ollongren discount will come after all. Let us call it the Kajsa discount or the Ollongren discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u109	The motion does not need to be held to ensure that we vote on it next week. It is customary to vote on it a week later, unless the Chamber decides to do so earlier. But at least thanks for the suggestion. I understand that you would like to make a comment, Mr Crone, but unfortunately you were already at the end of your speaking time. The motion doesn't need to be held. It will be put to the vote next week, unless the Chamber decides otherwise. That's an observation on my part. Now the chair is cleaned. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u110	Thank you, Mr President. The previous Kox motion did not sign up to my group, but it supported it. That is what we have done with the next explanation of vote. 'The Kox motion was supported by my group, after I had ensured that the operative part of that motion did not oblige the government to take an emergency measure but offered the opportunity to do so. My group believes that the government has the opportunity to examine these possibilities and, where possible, to use them." Well, Mr President, we have heard a lot of things today. The Minister indicated that she would need more time for the generic measure, a generic measure, and that she might have more insight into it in August. At least that seems too late to me. The question is, of course, for the Minister to decide whether or not she can do anything with retroactive effect. We have also heard the Minister say a number of other things, such as she is considering or perhaps thinking of setting up a hotline for tenants. My question is whether she will and, if so, when. Another point she mentioned is an emergency law for temporary rental discounts. My question is, is she gonna come up with that and when? Can we get a timetable for that? My final or final remark is that we cannot amend it, but the Minister can. It can amend the word "generic" to my taste. In other words: can you deliver generic customization? Could the minister reflect on that? This could mean that we are given a number of options by the Minister either this afternoon or during the course of this week. I must honestly say that I have gradually lost a bit of what the old customization is and what the current customization is. It would be helpful if we could get that straight, just like in what way the Minister might be able to make that generic more tailor-made. Then here in this Chamber we can see whether Mr Kox is going to withdraw his second motion or whether he is going to arrest her. As far as I am concerned, the response to these questions is still very important. Finally, I say that I have not yet signed this motion again and that I do not know whether I am going to support it, because I need the answers first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Minister, are you in a position to respond directly? I see that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u112	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to all the Members who have just spoken. I think I should be the last to go into the motion tabled, so if you will allow me, I will just pass by the questions that have been asked and make a few comments on the saying. So I say to Mr Kox: I will save the most important thing for the last time. Moreover, I would like to point out to Mr Van den Burg, quite rightly, that Mr Kox is right to point out that the 400 million is in principle structural money. Because if you don't apply the rent increase for one year and you don't catch up with a double rent increase the following year, that will of course work. I would also like to say to Mr Kox that I will also say later that I think I have done all kinds of things to meet his wishes, including speaking with all the organizations involved up to and including the Nibud. But what I have not done is to say to Mr Kox that the House Union was on my side. Maybe I made that impression. I spoke very well with the House Union. We have identified together a number of problems that we also want to tackle together, such as the issue of those single people, but I did not want to step up the fact that the Housing Union was fully in agreement with the policy. The House Union has of course been advocating a reduction in rents for some time now. I am very aware of that. I think that Mr Kox's other questions and comments relate to the motion, so I shall come to that in a moment. To Mr Van Strien of the PVV I would like to say that an affordable rent, low rent or moderate rent increase is one of the three things that landlords and, in particular, housing corporations have to pay attention to. Something else is needed: housing corporations and landlords also have to solve a social problem: they have to provide new homes. People on waiting lists are best helped if we provide a sufficient range of homes. They must also ensure that there is maintenance, investment in homes, that we do not allow homes to rot. That's all gonna take money. So in the end, you can't spend what you can't put in the rent increase on other things that the same tenants are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u113	I hear the minister talking about investment opportunities for corporations. It is concerned about the landlord levy, but in 2013 the government said it would levy 2 billion per year. Is the Minister not concerned about the investment opportunities of the corporations in that light?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u114	I am glad that the question is being asked, because this is something I have been paying attention to from the beginning of this cabinet period in two ways. First of all, by using the discount on the landlord's tax to enable housing corporations and others to make targeted investments, for example in sustainability, but also, with the last Princess's Day, by an additional billion for building new homes, just for the target group that needs it. There is also a strong sign-up: 80,000 additional social rentals can be realized for this purpose. But also in the longer term. We have said: if you look at now and in the short term, there is overall enough room for housing corporations. They have borrowing capacity and investment capacity. I also think it is very important to know how it works in the long term. I'm working on that. A motion has also been tabled by Mr Ronnes in the Lower House. As a result, very careful research is being carried out into the investment space for housing corporations, including to know whether we have sufficient capacity to continue building in the longer term. I hope to inform the House of Representatives before the summer. Of course, I'd be happy to inform the First Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u115	Perhaps I am even more concerned about the long term, because you have made 1 billion in ten years available with your government and you have taken 2 billion per year. That is why my concern about construction, sustainability and so on is twenty times greater than yours, and that is why there is a motion from my hand here in the Chamber that points this out. So if you have any concerns about that, you certainly have them about the limitation of the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u116	Others also referred to the landlord levy. When you want to decide something about the landlord tax, you should do so in the context of the whole budget and the considerations that are made. I will come back to the August decision-making and the logic of that moment, in my view. That has something to do with this. I'll get back to where I left off. Mr Pijlman made a number of comments. I agree with his statement. I am not trying to explain to this Chamber that I am not executing the motion, not the new motion, but the motion that has already been adopted but I am in the process of explaining how I am carrying out the motion. In that respect, I shall come back to this later on in the appreciation of the motion. I do have sympathy with Mr Pijlman's suggestion, even when it comes to a coherent package on the August decision-making process, so Princess Day, because then you always talk about purchasing power in general, the rent payment as part of it, and rent moderation as a possible instrument in it. But, indeed, with the advantage that you look in conjunction with all the groups in our society, and of course also the most vulnerable groups. Then I come to Mr Vendrik, who called for attention to be paid to the more vulnerable groups. I think that is right, and I understand that very well. But there are a lot of different people who need attention in this respect, namely tenants, but also people who are waiting on waiting lists, who are waiting for a house, such as elderly people, status holders and homeless people, all of whom are not in such a house yet. The way to help these groups is to ensure that there is sufficient supply. And now there's just a shortage. It is precisely when you talk about vulnerable people and how best to help them that I would suggest to Mr Vendrik that this should be taken into account in his assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u117	May I put it this way that you will return to both chambers around Prince's Day with a coherent package in which you weigh all those things you just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u118	Yes, and I would like to take this into account what I said in my first term, namely that I will have a better view of the real developments, both of the rent increases and of tenants who have come into trouble directly or indirectly as a result of corona. Of course, that weighs very heavily. If you say that it is about 2% of the tenants, but that the economic outlook is deteriorating and the group is getting bigger, then you can give it a different weighting than you would do now. All things in conjunction and coming back to this at a logical moment, namely if we look at the budgetary implications and purchasing power in any case in September, is indeed what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u120	I hear the Minister say that in the autumn package of late August, early September, at the very least, about Princess Day, rent is also included. I think I heard that correctly, but it is a little strange that the Minister says that rent moderation can be discussed in two or three months' time, but that she sees no reason to moderate rents now. What extra wisdom do we have in two months' time, when we are in the middle of a crisis where layoffs and so on? Can the Minister point that out? This is quite apart from the argument that I exchanged with Mr Pijlman and I would also like to hear the Minister about it, namely that I do not yet see how, in a purchasing power package in the autumn, you can specifically take a targeted measure for this group, apart from the rent payment. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u121	The rent allowance you mentioned yourself is, of course, one of the possibilities that we often use and which can also be used in a very targeted way. What I just meant was that I think that in August, September, we have more insight into the development of rentals in general and also know more about how things are actually going, economically speaking. The cabinet has created a first emergency package, with the NOW, the Tozo and the arrangements you all know. The cabinet then announced that this package would be extended with a number of adjustments for another period. Why is that? Because every time we don't know exactly what we're dealing with, we're looking for the best way to deal with this crisis. I do not rule out, but I do not know yet, that it will become more complicated and more difficult for tenants or for some of them, and that the people who may not have any problems at the moment, for example by being helped by the scheme, will have it later. So that is actually happening in the same step-by-step approach that I am now saying we choose customization, we encourage the landlords to apply coulance and even give them the prospect that we are going to legally allow a temporary rent reduction. It may well be that in the next phase a purchasing power package is indeed needed and that you say: we should actually look for it more on the income side. That could also be the rent allowance. What about rent? I don't want to rule anything out for the future. I do not say at what time it could be deployed, but that it should be possible to use it, I do find something I should keep on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u122	It's not clear to me yet. The Minister has just said that a lease can also be dealt with: it does not exclude anything. But if this rent increase continues on 1 July, you can't say in the autumn: we're going to moderate the rents. This can only be achieved by 1 July next year at the earliest. So this is a lost file. The troubles are here. The cabinet has made a second package for a reason, which has been extended by four months, rather than three, because the uncertainty is so great. We have to assume that it is impossible to imagine that in the coming months there will be such an improvement in the economy at once that we could say: well, it was quite understandable that we simply allowed this rent increase to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u123	I actually thought that I could move with Mr Van Rooijen for a long time, as I heard him in his interruption earlier. The other side is that, if you now consider introducing a generic rental stop across the board, it is very doubtful whether that is proportionate, or whether it is legally sustainable. Because it is about the ownership of parties who have the right to make choices in it. You must have a hell of a reason for that. For example, if more tenants than the current estimated 0.5% to 2% are in trouble, then at some point this may be a more serious reason to use such an instrument. That is why I do not want to rule out anything in my step-by-step approach, but the ice must be thick enough to know exactly what we are dealing with and which instrument is the most effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u124	Mr. Van Rooijen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u125	If the Minister says she doesn't want to rule out anything and has already said the word "hire moderation" twice now, could she promise that if, in three months' time, when preparing the package, it appears that there is a need for rent moderation, then she will definitely come to the Chamber with proposals to do the same? Whoever says "A," says "B."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u126	My only problem, because I go a long way along in your reasoning, is that I do not know exactly whether it will be such a size by then that it could be a proportionate instrument. Once again, I have also said, through the rent and purchasing power repair, to see other possibilities for that compensation. Eventually, every instrument you use must also look at the moment when you could use it. Rent allowance is always on January 1st, rent increases are on July 1st. But I have always talked about a coherent package in which I do not want to rule anything out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u127	The Minister says he cannot rule out anything, except what this Chamber wants in majority and apparently still wants, namely a temporary rental stop on 1 July. She can't say that it would be bad. She only says: I think the money can be spent better. But it remains that this Chamber wants something and that the Minister does not for the time being. I hope that changes. But I heard her say: yes, it is also the question of whether I can keep it legally, because we are talking about the ownership of landlords. That is an argument that I do not think appropriate at the moment. Of course, if you say to corporations "you thought you could raise the rent on July 1st, but I have other options, because the parliament wants to do so," they will of course say: who is going to pay that? But that's what we do with the Tozo and the NOW, isn't it? If the government claims to intervene for reasons that you didn't cause, then of course we have to compensate, which makes sense. But that's a financial discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u128	What's your question, Mr. Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u129	The question is whether the Minister can argue the argument that the other parties will then say: for what, hear what. That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u130	Of course, that could be very good. However, I do think that I should put all the arguments or considerations that play on the table here. For that reason, I thought it was good to mention this legal complication. Mr Kox immediately moved on to the solution, namely compensation for those landlords. Through the landlord tax you can reach a part of those landlords, but not everyone. We know that, too. There are also many small landlords. I've just mentioned people who rent out a few properties. That's their pension, too. So it is a much larger group than just the housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u131	The Minister wrote in her letter of 29 May that she had a detailed discussion with the landlord's organisations. If we do not increase the rent, will we get compensation? Well, I guess that's what you're talking about, isn't it? They're all very spooky people who work at the housing corporations, so they've said: for what, hears a thing. Did the Minister put anything on the table there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u132	No, because the landlords have said: it is not our preference to proceed to this rental stop. This applies both to the housing corporations and to the other landlords. So I am not negotiating with the landlords about the form of compensation. I'm looking for a way to achieve maximum impact for tenants who've gotten into trouble. I have, of course, done so very emphatically because Mr Kox has so emphatically asked me to do so. We've reviewed all the options. None of these organizations on the landlord's side said: we think it would be good to introduce that rental stop. They have all said that they are willing to make the most of their efforts to ensure that the famous custom is delivered to tenants who are in trouble. I find that very reassuring in itself, because that is our first concern, and I hope Mr Kox's too. Our first concern is that the people who are in trouble now can count on a solution. That's step one in my approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u133	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u134	I imagine landlords say, "Don't worry about it." The question is, what did the minister offer? There is a difference, because I assume the Minister said: you have noticed that Parliament has said that this must be done, and I am normally obliged as a minister to carry out that motion. Then comes the next step, namely that the corporations say: okay, how do you solve it financially? If the Minister had put the landlord levy on the table, I think the problem would have been solved within half an hour. But did the Minister talk about that? If she hasn't talked about it, then I imagine the corporations say: if you have nothing to offer, then we have nothing to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u135	Mr Kox can imagine that the subject of landlord tax is the subject of regular discussions with all the parties I am talking to. Even now. Moreover, I have interpreted the motion in such a way that I agree with Mr Schalk; in my opinion I have said so in the appreciation in the previous debate that if it were to be adopted, I would enter into that conversation and have the space to examine whether and how I could implement it. As Mr van der Burg has just said, I am working very hard to do that and I am doing my best to carry out the motion. I didn't listen to it like there was only one way to do that. Of course, my whole speech today is based on that. So I try to work in different ways towards something that does justice to the letter of the motion, for example by the law temporary rent reduction, but also to the spirit of the motion, which ultimately says that we want to help tenants who are in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u136	Let me make a point of order. It's almost 7:00. I'm gonna see how much time it takes and how many more interruptions there are going to be, otherwise we're gonna suspend for dinner break. As President-in-Office of the Council, I also have to take care of your health. That has also been visible elsewhere. So I'm gonna take a look around. Can Members live with short interruptions and up to three times the word per interruption? I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too. How much time does she think she needs, apart from the interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u137	Not that much time. I have a few more questions and I'll get to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u138	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u139	You mentioned in your first term, also in line with the conversations with the others, that you were considering perhaps broadening the Social Rental Agreement with Aedes and the Housing Union. I couldn't quite place what was meant by that, but that might include you having an agreement with them on a little less rent increase, 0% or 1%, in exchange for something with the landlord's tax. Was that supposed to happen? You yourself referred to an extension of the Social Rental Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u140	I mentioned the Social Rental Agreement because it now appears that there is a specific problem around single people. That's what I understood from the conversations with the House Union. They had expected better treatment on the basis of the Social Rental Agreement. That is not the case in practice. We have agreed to look at this particular group, because it also seems a bit of an undesirable effect of the Social Rental Agreement, which has been concluded between the parties. I'm always willing to watch that with the parties. They make the Social Rental Agreement among themselves. They basically do that without me, but of course I like to be involved. This also applies to the impact, especially if there is an undesirable effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u141	Mr Crone briefly. You'll have to press the pedal for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u142	Who knows what might happen this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u143	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u144	Mr Schalk had a number of questions. I will answer it, just like Mr Crone's. He said that the market functioned well, at least that's not what he meant to say. He said: the market is not functioning well; the rents are too high. That's right. The housing market is not functioning well enough. The price mechanism actually doesn't work that well. Why not? Because there is great scarcity. You can use different instruments for that. The government can, of course, give guidance, parties can, for example, conclude a Social Rental Agreement, but you also have to ensure that much more is being built. I think that, in the end, it is very necessary in that market to bring about some calm and cooling. I'm glad he felt that the Temporary Rental Discount Act is at least a good step in that. The other step I have taken is that I believe that Mr Crone too has said so. Last time I said that I was appealing to the landlords, but now I also want to make sure that the tenants, if they do not hear from their landlord, can go to a hotline somewhere. Mr Schalk also asked for this. That hotline must be there very soon. This is already being discussed with the Rent Committee. It could also be very soon, hopefully already next week. Then there are Mr Schalk's questions. If we come to Princess Day in August or September with a package, can we do so retroactively? I have just said that it really should be a coherent package, both on purchasing power and on the rent payment, and possibly on the rental stop. When that has to go into effect, all is also the subject of discussion. The normal, logical moments are in July. Well, that's passed. Then there is the prospect of 1 July, but of course it is about the coherence of all the measures you think, knowing which tenants have got into trouble and whether the rent payment, purchasing power repair or the level of rents is the best approach. I have just answered the question about the hotline. The emergency law comes as soon as possible, at least before the summer, but as soon as it is reasonably feasible. I think Mr Schalk's suggestion on a letter is actually a very good suggestion. I have, of course, explained quite extensively in my letter what has happened, but I can also imagine that it is difficult to get out of that letter exactly what that customization is made of. I'd be happy to explain that again in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u145	That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u146	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u147	Very briefly. I can still see the Minister's insights moving forward. She's already talked about rent moderation before, and now she's talking about "rent stop." Can you explain that? If that is not possible now, then I think it will come at the time when we, as a Chamber, would like to know. So do you not exclude a rental stop when you know more and when decisions will have to be made in the Prinsjesdag package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u148	I just said I don't think I should rule anything out. I do not think it would be wise to exclude anything at all, because I have just argued that on a number of points I simply do not have enough information to assess what is the best instrument to use. You're catching me on one word now. Whether I'm talking about "rental moderation" or "rental stop," it means that you think you can achieve what you want through the rent for certain groups. This can also be done through the rent allowance, and this can also be done through the purchasing power repairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u149	But can the Minister confirm that she has now said that in addition to rent-making, there could also be a rent-stop as she knows more? Apparently, she also sees technical possibilities. Does she mean that's gonna be July 1st next year? Then I think it is very important that it be clarified very quickly for those who are so affected by the rent increase that is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u150	But those who are now affected by a rent increase which is disproportionate to the income they can reasonably obtain, I want to help already. I do not want to wait until September, and I certainly do not want to wait until July next year. And again, don't catch me on a word. I usually talk about hire moderation. I may have said "rent stop" once, but that is of course the same thing. The point is that you say that a rent increase is not justified for certain reasons. But yes, then in the context of what I just outlined, so in the context of knowing more, and in the next phase of a total package, in which we can also talk about purchasing power and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u151	Let me get this straight: the letter that you promised will be coming this week, in other words well before the vote next week, Minister? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u152	Yes. If I have understood Mr Schalk correctly, that is a letter that briefly explains what he called "generic customization" could actually consist of. And since I have also said a number of things today, including, for example, the hotline at the Rent Committee, I think it would be good to explain that briefly this week in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u153	I had asked to indicate in that letter what the old customization is, what the new customization is, and how the Minister could look at what I called "generic customization." Why? I think everyone here understands that if someone can pay €2,000 to €3,000 in rent per month, then no one is waiting for a rental stop there - at least, I can't imagine anything at all. What this is about is that there are just people at the bottom of the rental segment, but also at the bottom of the labour market and so on. That's what I think we all want to look for. So, in that sense, I would be interested to see if that word 'generic' is not too heavily loaded, and that the Minister could provide tailor-made solutions. My question is: could she reflect on that for a while? And if she cannot make a commitment on this matter today, then she will be able to clarify it during the course of this week, because that could greatly help this Chamber to consider whether that motion will be necessary in the near future, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u154	Thank you for this clarification; then that is clear to me and I can also better focus the letter on the question that has been asked. In the previous debate, I asked the author, too, whether it was indeed the intention to understand 'generic' in such a way that it would really be for all tenants, so also for people with a'sustainable' income and not problems as a result of the corona crisis. Then the answer was yes. But indeed, in the further explanation and also by Mr Schalk himself, there appeared to be room for discussion on how to deal with this in the best way possible. And I understand Mr Schalk in such a way that he says: I would prefer to see generic customization, so indeed for that group where there is actually a problem. Well, then I think we're getting a lot closer, because that's exactly what my approach is: first helping the people who are in trouble right now, taking into account through the hairs of the eyes that this group might get bigger as we continue in this crisis and the corona crisis might actually turn into an economic crisis, or at least into a recession. So that's how I'll report on that in my letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u155	Mr. Chairman. There's gonna be a letter this week. That's good. And I hear the Minister say, "Everything is conceivable." That's good, too. This also applies to a freezing of rents by 1 July 2020. So the Minister is going to give us some more information on what the whole package should look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u156	I will be on Mr Kox's motion in a moment. But perhaps it is a good thing that I should start from the beginning, because Mr Vendrik is now so clearly showing 1 July. I actually thought that we said together: attention should be paid to this group of households, tenants, with a payment problem, because that is also the group that deserves attention as a result of the corona crisis, which may have been affected by the effects of the corona crisis. And that's an analysis I'm totally sharing. Then I tried to dissect it, and I said: it means for some people, for example those who depend on benefits or pensions, that they are not directly affected by the crisis. I don't know how that's gonna work in the future. That's why I want to monitor that closely and I want to keep my finger on the wrist. I also said that there are different ways to help people. The rent is one route; another route is via purchasing power. That is why I want to have the conversation with the colleagues of SZW. I have noticed that many people are appealing to SZW's arrangements. I have also found that landlords are happy to lose rent or help people in other ways, if necessary. And I have seen that many parties, including the Nibud, say: that customization is certainly good. So let's continue with that. I have announced the emergency bill so that the temporary rent discount can be given. I have discussed this with the authorities so that, in anticipation of that law, they can and allow it to continue. Then I said: I have a better picture in August. Have these rent increases indeed been moderate? Is that just inflation? Is there any reason to expect that economic aftermath will have major consequences for an even larger group of tenants? And then I would like to see which instruments, including indeed an instrument in the sphere of rent, I can best use to reach that group. So that's the reasoning in which I tried to take you and the Chamber. I am trying to explain that, with largesse, I am trying to implement the motion, but that this step-by-step approach does not provide for the announcement of a full-scale rental stop on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u157	That's where the essence is. This Chamber has just declared that that is what we want. This Chamber has also spoken out: if you still have a variant on it, we are extremely interested in it. Mr Schalk said at the time in the debate: do it for the group up to a certain amount. The minister isn't delivering any of that, even though she's very well aware that generic is generic? Generic is not specific, unless you do it in the combination of Schalk. Then it's possible. But Mr Schalk does not mean: pick up an individual and then solve it. No, do it for a large group: corporations, tenants, tenants under a certain amount and you name it. But the Minister doesn't move on that point. That's why it's in stark contrast to her expression: everything is negotiable for me, so I'm not ruling anything out except what this Chamber is asking. What makes it so difficult for the Minister to say: that is also an option; if there is a majority in this Parliament and it is not bad for the tenants at least, let us do so? The Minister's colleagues come up with the same proposals and defend them in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u158	Mr. Kox, I'm going to see the Minister anyway, for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u159	That is what Mr Kox said in the previous debate. That's when I argued that that's true. By the way, the cabinet speaks with one mouth anyway. But the cabinet has chosen the approach to provide income support immediately at the beginning of the crisis, in which everyone was attacked by the virus and all its consequences. The result of this choice is precisely that I argued on behalf of the cabinet that it is not logical to use this generic instrument in this way. At the same time, I have said that I fully understand the concerns of Mr Kox and others in this Chamber about tenants and specific groups inside. I am doing everything I can right now to meet that. I want to do everything I can to ensure that I have a good package for the future as we move forward in time, the crisis phase is over and the instruments are changing or perhaps being phased out, so that people don't get into unnecessary trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u160	Mr. Kox, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u161	With all due respect, what the Minister says is not in line with what's happening. The first measures were income support and support for businesses. Those were generic measures. But in the meantime, I have already mentioned it, for example, the generic measure: all large users do not have to pay the CO levy for the time being. You can't have it. You can't have it. As has already been said, there is not a single large consumer who has had to submit a form to determine whether he was bad enough. So it fits into the cabinet system. That is what I have argued, and that is what this Chamber has argued. Why can't the Minister say: yes, that fits; I go to colleagues and ask them what they think? That's a possibility, isn't it? Why is that excluded and is the Minister going to look for what else we might have meant? We're talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u162	I have heard the Chamber correctly and I have read the motion correctly. I'm going to the cabinet, even more so, I've already been to the cabinet to talk about that. But then, of course, the first question is: which of these tenants are not helped by the measures we have taken, but have got into trouble because of corona? That's exactly the group I can reach through that customization. That's exactly the group where I keep the finger on the wrist. If that group gets bigger, we shouldn't rule that out. We should also use other instruments. In that I feel supported by the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u163	Would the members please keep a foot and a half away? I have a point of order. My proposal is that we let the Minister complete her input and then see how many interrupts there are left. If there's a lot of them, we're gonna have a dinner break first, otherwise we're gonna have accidents, and I don't want that on my head. Is that okay with you? Then we'll wait until the minister's done, and then we'll see how many interumpants there are. If there are many, they also need to be given ample time, but there is also a sufficiently high level of glucose, and that is what we are going to do. So if you agree, I suggest that we let the Minister complete her term. Then everyone will have plenty of time to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u164	Mr President, all I have left is the motion. I just argued how I deal with the motion that's already there. My suggestion would therefore be that Mr Pijman suggested that in his term, too, in order to hold the motion until the time when your Chamber can consider what I have outlined, on the way to Princess' Day, and on the real development of the situation of the tenants, which I can, of course, keep the Chamber informed of. I propose to follow that step-by-step approach. So my suggestion would be: hold this motion. The other motion has been passed and I am acting on it, in my opinion. By then, see if this motion is still needed. But that is, of course, a question on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u165	You're at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u166	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u167	I'll see who else wants to interrupt. That is Mr Vendrik and Mr Crone. I don't see any more interruptions. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u168	I have one more question. The minister just talked about generic customization. That sounds wide and narrow at the same time, so I'm trying to figure out what that is. If the Minister lets us pass on 1 July, it depends on the initiative of the tenant, but above all on the willingness of the landlord whether something happens. And the point is that we want to make the position of the tenants a little stronger at this time. Could it be that in her letter along that line the Minister writes down which groups she really wants to protect? For which groups would the cabinet say: do I simply not want a rent increase on 1 July? By way of implementation of the Kox motion. That might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u169	First of all, the term "generic customization" was not mine. I wish I had thought of him, but it was really Mr Schalk who introduced him. So I only took him over from him. I also said just now: 1 July is indeed the date on which the rent increases begin. The announcements must of course be made earlier, at least two months in advance. So they have been largely done, even before the previous debate was held in your Chamber. I am, of course, prepared to do what Mr Vendrik asks and will therefore also address that group in the letter. I have just tried to explain this in my speech. But, of course, it sees above all the differences between the tenants, and within those groups the people who are actually actually affected by the corona crisis. But I take his suggestion to heart and I take it with me in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u170	Then there is Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u171	Indeed, the term "generic customization." It's like it's policy: customization, as long as it's not generic. That is a serious remark, because you ask: what groups do I not hit? Well, for example, the young families, where one of the two partners is going to lose their jobs, who are now in the private sector, for €1,000, €800, or €1,500. I want to get a few positive things out of the debate. People say, "So set boundaries." I refer to Mr Pijlman's crooked people and Mr Schalk's €1,500. I said it might come back up after a year. Then it's not structural. That's in line with your own law. It can also be about allowing only inflation, but not an increase on top of that. There are so many variations; I hope you choose one of the variants in the cabinet. Please take those variants with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u172	I've been paying attention very carefully and of course I'll be happy to take those variants with me. I have the same concerns as Mr Crone about the young families affected by corona. But these are precisely the people for whom the cabinet has taken a large number of measures and who, in principle, at least at this stage, can count on income support through, for example, the NOW. I also agree that we have certain policies with regard to people who may be paying too low a rent. There's a little more room for that than for people who have their lips on the water. It is the government's policy to deal with it differently anyway. The housing corporations actually only increase the rents with inflation, across the board. I have heard very well from Mr Crone. Fortunately, this is also the policy of housing corporations. So I have heard the comment correctly. I will ensure that the letter reflects this to a sufficient extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u173	Thank you, Minister. I thank the Minister for the information he has provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u174	I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-10.u175	We now come to the end of the sitting. I would like to inform you that the BZa and Finance Committee meeting in Teams will begin five minutes after the end of this plenary session. I would like to thank all the members and staff who made this meeting possible and wish you well at home.
