ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u1	The debate is now on the discussion of the Defence budget, 35570-X: Adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Defence for the year 2021. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Beuker on behalf of the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Last year I also stood here and the Secretary of State was only present at the debate. I am very pleased that both rulers are here now. Thank you for that! A lot has happened in our country. That's what really hit the DOD and its staff. The corona crisis has taught us a great deal. One of the most important lessons so far is the following. You can cut down on organizations very quickly, break them down, but rebuilding the lost capacities takes an enormous amount of time, energy and money. Minister De Jonge experiences this every day. In health care, 75,000 pairs of hands on the bed have been cut off in recent years. That is what we are reaping, and I fear for a very long time, the wretched fruit of it. Unfortunately, we see in this Defence budget that this lesson has not been processed on Square 4. In fact, the problems are being tried to keep under the control or under the radar of the Chamber, such as the growing staff shortages for your imaging, chairman, the shortage of military personnel has now risen to over 9,000 procurement problems with all kinds of major projects, as pointed out by the General Court of Auditors, but also organisational consequences of the BUT model: policy, implementation and supervision. To put it euphemistically, we lack a sense of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr. Beukker's talking about staff shortages in the Defense Department, but isn't it also a bit of a defense issue? Because you can also hear sounds from the field, especially from the lower ranks. They'd like to move on. They'd like to stay with the DOD. Everything is promised, but then those promises will not be kept. At some point, these people think, "Well, fat nose, three beers, we're going." They also often get temporary contracts, while they want to stay longer, but that is not regulated either. So is it, in part, not to blame for the higher framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u5	I am very pleased with this question. It is indeed a correct statement by Mrs Faber. It is also a piece of self-inflicted pain, if you look at the salaries, the working conditions, the allowances of the military. If the people who are at our door, the Marechaussees, go to another department, police, DSI, then they can advance €400, €500 net per month and then they are home every night. That's another situation. I know that the Minister is trying to re-establish a collective agreement. That's gotta happen before Christmas, but we're gonna need extra money. I shall come to that later in my speech. So it is partly an organizational problem, as Mrs Faber points out, but also a cultural problem. It is a fact that soldiers are the worst paid people in the Netherlands. They're being properly trained. They have a great education. They're great people. They really work their way around, but eventually the end of the month counts as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u6	Well, at least I'm happy with Mr. Beuker's answer, but I can still remember a conversation with a senior officer. He told me: we train young people and after a few years they are ready for a return to society. Then I got a bit of a feeling that there was no mood at all to keep these young, enthusiastic people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u7	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u8	The high-level framework should not be wailing now. They must also put their hands into their own bosom in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u9	That is absolutely right. Everyone's got part of the blame. The working conditions system is based on the beginning of the last century. That will require a delta plan for personnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you. Mr. Beefinger, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u11	In short, the armed forces are not doing well. In my speech, I will take this on three tracks. The bottom line of my speech is that this Defence budget does not solve the problems, but only shifts them to the next cabinet. We in the First Chamber must find something about this and, I hope, propose a possible start to a solution. In its Defence vision 2035, the Minister states that 13 to 17 billion more is needed to prepare the military for the future. That's correct. But today and in the coming years, this budget will not be able to fulfil the constitutional tasks assigned to it. The interpretation is lifted over the cabinet period. We, as the First Chamber, must assume our responsibilities and help the Minister to set a path to how and when we can meet constitutional obligations with the armed forces. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. This budget does not even begin to solve this major problem. Our security insurance's broken. Moreover, in a few years' time the budget will fall substantially, rather than the expected upward trend. We're going back to the time of the broken rifle. In many responses to the Minister's vision, former military and experts, as well as the Court of Auditors' accountability, stated: "The Minister gives Parliament a rosy and incomplete picture of the delayed readiness." Here too, I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Even Clingendael, in the person of Ko Colijn, indicates that this minister only leaves paper for her successor. On 12 October the Minister received a very critical report from the Court of Auditors on the under-budgeting of major projects. The answer received from the Court of Auditors was that "this is common practice in these procedures." To which the Court replied: 'but not yet correct'. In short, the Defence vision 2035 is a curious will with a lot of attention to technology, but there is not even a plan to implement it. This budget throws the problems over the fence to the successors. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The second line of my speech is that of international cooperation and commitments, in particular the Prime Minister's promise made in Wales in 2014. In 2008, NATO called the Netherlands an anorexia patient. In 2010, it was reported that amputations had been carried out in scarce capacities. And now, in 2020, we are called pariahs. In other words, NATO is giving us a gross incompetence and we are parasitic on other countries, including European ones. For example, NATO calls for'much-needed investments in land forces', but neither the Defence Vision 2035, nor the Defence Budget is implementing this. With the seventh economy in NATO, we are dangling at the bottom, to be precise: as the eighteenth out of 29 years old when it comes to fulfilling this promise. Here, too, this Defence budget does not take any steps in the right direction, not even in the long term. Is the 2% promise now definitely going into the trash? Does the Minister accept that she cannot carry out her constitutional duties and abandon the promise made to the allies? So let us be clear about this to our allies and to our own people. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, as promised, the third approach route. This is the beginning of a solution. One of the austerity measures still continuing with the Defense Department is the RVU fine due to the functional age discharge from the Military Civil Service Act. Under pressure from the cuts, this scheme has been designated by Social Affairs as a pre-pension scheme for several years. But it's not. It's an ongoing austerity measure. Then why don't you just come out and say it? For the record, this was created when the soldiers concerned had no choice at the time. They had to leave and comply with the law. Subsequently, the organisation still has to pay the annual fine under the tax scheme. This problem is still going on. Hence the request. Setting up an interdepartmental committee together with the Tax and Social Affairs Department a year after we have talked about this in this house, as the Secretary of State can do now, is really not enough for us. It is even administratively weak, unjust and undesirable. This cabinet can easily solve it itself, but it seems that there is no will to do so. The lessons of the broken rifle and corona still haven't landed. This problem, too, is being postponed by the cabinet, while stopping this fine would be beneficial for the defence. Is this another perpetuum mobile of delay? Because we know what comes of delay. On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance clears the defence budget, but on the other hand the fine is collected on the same day. Our allies and NATO, of course, see that as well. It's called in good Dutch just windowdressing. Mr. Chairman. Last year, I asked you to stop this. In fact, this could have been repaired in the spring note, even with retroactive effect. My motion has been held and now, unfortunately, there is nothing left in the defence budget. The House of Representatives recently discussed this issue in the budget debate, but once again there was no meat or fish, or even any sense of urgency in the cabinet. Let us be clear as a senate and speak out. At the time, the defense respected the law and sent the military with FLO and the regulation has now been amended. What remains and what remains for us as a Chamber is to repair this injustice with retroactive effect over the interim phase and then to do what our armed forces and our people in Wales have been promised. The restitution of this unjustly levied fine will help the Defense to solve the major personnel problems in particular. There are still many matters to be resolved, such as the new system of remuneration and the corresponding system of allowances and so on. From this house, we can help the Ministry of Defence in a relatively simple way, and directly. Finally, Mr President. This puts an end to the needless pumping around of money, to the shadowiness of how much money is actually being spent on Defense, and it helps the Minister in her working conditions consultation. This increases the Dutch contribution to his safety and that of his allies, because we are all responsible for that. After all, they are constitutional tasks. We look forward to the reactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. Mr. Arbouw on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u13	I have two questions. You are very critical of the current budget, but you also understand that this is a budget that is actually going towards next year's elections and towards the formation of a new cabinet. Do you not think that your sound that the budget is not good and should be implemented in a different way is no longer a political debate for the forthcoming coalition talks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u14	I do not entirely agree with Mr Arbouw. It's about the situation of a very large organization that's in huge trouble. The Minister acknowledges that on one side, but there is no indication of how to do it. The problem is shifted to the successors, and that is not correct. We could have indicated in this budget that these are huge problems and how we are going to deal with them. My group and I understand very well that you cannot do that at once, but you cannot put down a vision or a dream and then do not put butter on the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u15	In my opinion, a substantial investment has been made in this cabinet period by the government in the field of defence. You yourself say it has to be in steps. The Prime Minister indicated in 2014 that we certainly need to move towards this 2% standard. That debate was also held in my party last weekend when it was about the election programme. It is very well stated that it must be done quickly. There is no discussion about this, but it has to be gradual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u16	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u17	It's up to the next cabinet to do that again. My second question is about the RVU. Last year you also made that argument. At the time, you also heard the Secretary of State say that she fully agrees with you. The Ministry has also done several things. You've worked in departments yourself, as have I. So you know how that works. Have you considered raising this issue with the budgets of the leaders who can make a choice, such as Social Affairs or Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u18	A clear question. A clear answer: we did not do that. This is a cabinet matter and we raised it with the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u19	Thank you. Mrs Moonen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u20	Mr Beuker used harsh words about the defence. For example, he indicated that it was the worst paid profession of officials in the Netherlands. What are you basing that on, Mr. Buckle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u21	I base this on all kinds of calculations that are just public and are now also being put on the table in the working conditions consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u22	I do not share that view, also looking at the basic salaries and the supplementary, very good secondary working conditions. I therefore do not share Mr Beuker's view. I don't think that's right either. You also indicated that the Minister has reaped little and achieved little. That is what my second question is about. At the moment we are making a speech, as many as 160 soldiers are working at the UMC in Utrecht to help in the corona crisis. I ran into them in the test streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u23	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u24	My question is: would Mr Beuker also like to comment on the Dutch military's commitment to the fight against covid and on how they are making a very positive difference there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u25	I'd like a very brief answer, Mr. Beefinger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u26	I know the situation, and I know the military are putting everything on strings. Supporting the government in the national field is also one of the tasks, one of the constitutional tasks, but that is a drop in the ocean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u27	Thank you. Mrs Moonen, finally, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u28	Yeah, third. This afternoon we are discussing in committee the long-term vision of the Minister, who is indeed there. Surely that clearly shows that the Minister and the Secretary of State have a vision for the future of Defence? Then how do you look at such a vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u29	Finally, Mr. Beefinger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u30	That's what I said, and we're going to talk about it in detail. The vision is a wonderful dream, in which technology is very central. But dreams are deception. The people now, as we speak, need bread on the shelf and plenty of stuff. If I could give you the example that we have four submarines...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u31	No, unfortunately, we don't have time for all kinds of examples. Thank you, Mr. Buckle. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister and Secretary of State, are you able to answer directly the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm also happy to be in your First Chamber once. Last year that was not necessary, but now there are a number of issues that affect me as well. So I am happy to come here with the Secretary of State at this bizarre and crazy time; I think we all think so. In particular, I would like to address points 1 and 2, although a number of parts also touch the Secretary of State's portfolio. It will therefore deal with this matter. First of all, I would like to respond to the general picture put forward by Mr Beuker. From the outset, when we recommended, I said that the investment this government is making in Defence was at that time EUR 5.5 billion is just a good start. That's the first thing I said. I would like to make this point very clear, because it seems that Mr Beuker no longer has that in mind. We, the Secretary of State and I, have worked hard. With this 5.5 billion in investment, we have written our Defence Note. We started talking from low to high in the organization. I say this deliberately towards a general b.d.: We deliberately started talking from low to high to hear what's at the bottom of our organization. It's no secret: we're pretty freaked out. That's what I said. That's what we based our Defence Note on. We have indicated how we are going to spend this 5.5 billion. We've worked on it successfully. This budget is the final phase of the 5.5 billion and the plans we have made for it. It is therefore a budget in which choices are made. It is our last budget; that is what we have said. This budget comes in the year of 75 years of liberation. I think the way we're sitting here, we all thought it would be a completely different year, including for the Defense Department. We had hoped to continue working with the veterans on the basis of defence with talks all over the country. It's tragic that you couldn't. But this is what it's all about. No more than a good start. That's what we said. We have worked out everything in the coalition agreement in the budget. Was it enough? No. We have never made a misunderstanding about that either. We have always said: it is a good start. I have even stated explicitly, in the direction of everyone, that we are currently unable to fulfil our constitutional task. Now, as a defence organization, we will never be able to fulfil the constitutional task on our own. We always have to do it in cooperation with other countries, but we are working on it successfully, with everyone in the organisation, from low to high. What have we done? We have inventoried what we encountered in those just over three years. We promised to make a defense vision to 2035. Unfortunately, that came a little later because of the corona crisis. It's been a long time since a long-term vision was made. That's what we promised. We have indicated that, if you look at what is happening in the world, the security situation around us is getting worse. That was Mr Beukker's second point. You may all have seen last week what the AIVD has done about the Russians in the Netherlands. I'm sure you've seen what happens to hacking. So you see that even in a country like us, the threat changes and increases. On the threat analysis, we have made our long-term vision, as requested by the Chamber. We lay there, with the entire Defense Organization, that our organization must change. We need to be high-tech and information-driven, we need to be a reliable partner and protector, and we need to work more intensively. There is no other way to do that in this world, where demography also changes. That's not moving on to another government. Of course, the "what" we have indicated. We all agree on that. We are already working on this, according to the three characteristics and the ten principles of design. We've been working on it since the day we established it with the whole organization. As far as we are concerned, extra money is included, because it is not enough, but regardless of whether we would get extra money as a Defence Organisation in a subsequent period, we all agree, with the whole organisation, that we should work differently. That's written down. And what has never happened before, I say in the direction of Mr Beucker, is that Defence has made clear so explicitly, well before the elections, what is really going on with the lack of money in the organisation. I am truly proud that we have managed this with the cabinet. We've made it so explicit that everyone can make their choices. You now know how much it costs to meet the 2% for NATO. That's what we reported. I fully agree, moreover, that we must comply with this and that the signature of our Prime Minister is now underneath it. We made that explicit. We have indicated what it costs to perform information-driven, what it costs to have a modern business operation and what it costs to be manoeuvrable. So we replicated it. Only if we meet all those things, we're, probably, tailored to the threats of today. But only in cooperation with other countries, because we can never do it alone. We have bent over in our Defence Vision, which Mr Beuker may have seen as well, to main task 1, because that is an important choice that we have made. The security of the Kingdom and the alliance is a priority for us, in addition to the main task 3, which I will also comment on in response to Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u33	You're not at the end of your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u34	No, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u35	Why don't we finish it first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u36	Very good, Mr. Chairman. So we did this. This is the first point. We have, moreover, always been transparent about the absence of readiness, so let me just say in your direction. We have also made this clear. The Secretary of State will undoubtedly be able to say a little bit more about that. So I do not recognize the way Mr Beuker talks about that at all. Finally, I would like to say something about international cooperation in Wales. Indeed, our Prime Minister's signature is under Wales 2014. I have made it clear from the outset that this was a difficult message in NATO that we will not achieve that 2% with these investments made by the cabinet, so that is more necessary. We then had to make a realistic national plan. That's what we've done in the meantime. I'm saying that's what got us extra money. So we got extra money for that last year's Spring Note. And you know that we have already invested a little bit in the direction we choose in the Defence Vision: we can buy additional F-35s for that, and information-driven actions and special forces are there, so the things we are good at. Is that enough? Answer: no. I also find it worrying, like you, that we are the third from below on the NATO lists and the fifth economy of Europe. So more needs to be done, and that is what we have put down. That was the end of my answer. Finally, I would like to say that we have worked very hard with the whole organisation to make this transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Beekker, a short supplementary question? You will, of course, be given a second deadline to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u38	I am pleased and pleased to hear that the Minister dares a lot of things, but NATO does not share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u39	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u40	How can you rhyme with these things? You say "I started fixing a little bit," but you see that the factor involved in the defense, the military, still leaves the organization too much. We have 9,000 vacancies; that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u41	You'll get a second term. The Minister also has to respond to it, but briefly additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u42	That is the subject that the Secretary of State will be discussing in the near future. But the fact that NATO does not share this has nothing to do with it. I'd like to report that. NATO does share the choices we have made. I have the Defence vision and also the national plan we have made to take an extra step in this period on top of what was in the coalition agreement. The 1.7 billion that has occasionally been added is indeed shared by NATO. I mean, we have pieces on that too, so we can also point that in the direction of Mr Beuker. When it comes to staffing, of course, in our Defence Memorandum we have also chosen people, resources, manners, and, looking at the conversations, we have put the people first as well. The Secretary of State will answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u43	Shall we listen to that first? Secretary of State, the floor is yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u44	Oh, yes, Mrs Moonen had another interruption on our third task: to provide assistance. I think it is indeed a good thing that we have put everything into this corona crisis, which affects us all. In the first period we have had all our doctors, nurses, medics and so on all over hospitals working. We've lent out all our ventilator equipment. We've learned lessons from that. We have learned that it was not really efficient and effective to do so anywhere in the country, so we have now placed an extra central post in the UMC Utrecht. And I dare to say that without our medical planners, the national distribution of patients, you undoubtedly know a little bit more about that from other points of view, Mr President-in-Office. So I think it is very important that that point is also mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u45	Thank you, Minister. Then the Secretary of State for Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u46	I'd already turned on the microphone, Mr. Chairman, but I understand that you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u47	No, that's not true of yours. Only the Minister's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u48	Okay, all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u49	There's got to be a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u50	Perhaps it is just as good to address the legitimate concerns which Mr Beuker mentioned in his speech and which we also recognise. That is also why the Minister indicated that we said at the beginning of the Defence Note: we already know that it will not be enough. We know we're dealing with an organization that's been neglected. If you get less money for years, but have to do the same tasks or do more tasks, it simply has influence. Whether it's the IT portfolio, real estate, staff or equipment, we're dealing with late maintenance in all these areas, and we also need to modernise. It is not only today's war, but also tomorrow's war and, preferably, that of 15 years from now, which we must win. That's what the Defence Vision is for. We have chosen very consciously to make it clear how much money it costs, precisely as a result of your speech. I think everyone will say that we need to invest in personnel, in real estate, in IT or in equipment, but in the end we only have one budget. That money must be distributed as appropriately as possible. We have taken the Defence Note as the starting point for this and we see the results of that. We see that the investment ratio of the Defense Department is at 24% right now. NATO is pursuing the 20% target. We're from 16%. So you can see that this 1.5 billion a year has had a structural effect. Can you always do better? Yes. Can some projects be faster? Yeah, probably, but we've also made a lot of decisions, and our people notice that too. An explicit decision that the Minister and I have taken is to ensure not only that we invest in the major projects, but precisely on the square meter of our employee. Whether it's the combat gear or the combat boots, or whether it's the mobile phone or the Wi-Fi, it's all things that we've invested extra in, especially from personnel care. So personnel care is not just about working conditions. Personnel care is also about creating a good working environment, where people feel safe and have the right resources. All the things we've done in the past few years. I must say that I am proud that our employee satisfaction, since we measured it since 2015, has never been so high. It has risen by over 10% in the past year. We see that the pride of the military in phase 3... Mr Beuker knows exactly what people I am talking about... 5% has gone up in the past year. We sometimes get the story that the DOD doesn't get the money spent, but we get the money more than spent. You can see that for all those investments, although it always takes a while before you actually notice it on the workplace. The level of commitment is enormous, only we can only register it once we have actually received an invoice. Of the F-35 I have not yet received all the invoices, but the commitments have all been made. Makes it look like you had money left. I can tell you that this does not apply and that it certainly does not apply to the operating budget. You can also see this in our annual reports. So it is true what Mr Beukker says. We do need more money. It is also true what Mr Beuker says that one of the concerns is the number of vacant posts. In the Defence vision, we have deliberately chosen a long-term perspective of fifteen years and we have also set up the Defence Equipment Budget Fund. I think it's good to take the Chamber to 2009/2010. Then we had 12,000 vacant functions. In 2012, 12,000 functions had to be deleted. We're under 9,000 now. You can see: it fluctuates in a rather short period of time, with an organization that does not pull its people out of the school banks. Because for all our functions, you need to be trained at the Department of Defense. There is no university for an infantryman or a college or an MBO institution. So this is all business we have to do ourselves. That is why we have also presented the Defence Vision, precisely to outline that long-term perspective and also to send out the signal that this organisation needs political peace and stability when it comes to the perspective for the organisation. It takes some time before we have trained our people and before they can actually be deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u51	How much longer do you think you'll need, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u52	I'm gonna answer a few more questions, Mr. Chairman. But I think it is good to put this in the context that Mr Beuker also outlined. We have indeed received more formation sites, more than 6,500 by the 1.5 billion extra. So that also indicates what it means to the organization. They're working hard on that. I am proud that despite Corona, we have been able to do the recruitment efforts. It's still a focus. That is also why we are not going to work towards a new staff model. Mrs Faber asked about the reasons why our people are leaving the organization in the event of interruption. One of the reasons is, for example, a lack of career prospects. That is exactly why it needs to be adapted. Mr Beuker also indicated that we have a remuneration system based on the 1918 Idenburg State Commission. The fact that it is more than 100 years old does indicate how difficult it is to change that, also because we have the Netherlands in small detail at Defence. It's not quite clear. You have over 30,000 functions. We've got the kites, the fighters. It goes from IT staff to nurses and doctors. Everything you've got, and you're all trying to get it into one model. Well, that doesn't fit in with this time of year. It doesn't fit in with this time when the older you get, the more salary you have. That was one of the principles of the state committee. It still is. So I do think it should be modernised. We see very much that this model is still in line with a final wage system. A reform that we have carried out in this cabinet period is that we have finally moved to the middle-wage system. That means at the bottom that you also have to earn your salary more. In the current collective agreement, extra money has been put into a temporary wage building allowance, just in front of the bottom of our wage building. The second is that we have gone from the final wage system to the middle wage system and we have also compensated for the lower grades. So if Mr Beuker says 'you have to make sure you invest at the bottom', then I can tell him that we have done so as a cabinet during this period and that we have implemented major reforms in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u53	I'll take a look at the time. Secretary of State, how much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u54	I have two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u55	Then I suggest the Secretary of State finish her story. Then we see what time it is and then we see if Mr Beuker can still interrupt or if he can take his interruption with him immediately in his second term. After that we get two more terms from the rulers. We're running a little tight in time. I suggest the Secretary of State finish her story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u56	I'm gonna try to speed up, Mr. Chairman. Mr Beuker rightly asks about the RVU fine. The RVU has been introduced since 2006. You mentioned cuts, but they have been in place since 2006. That was a different time. I indicated last time in this house that I agree that the DOD should not be part of it. I also suggested that it should be included in the budget debates of the Finance and Social Affairs sectors. Maybe you'll do the same today. We have indeed set up a committee to produce its findings by March 2021, together with the new pension agreement to look again at the special position of a military in relation to legislation in the field of taxation and social affairs. Is that still a match? Asking the question is also a partial answer, because if the answer were 'yes', I would not have had to set up a committee either. So our approach is that something has to change in that and that includes the RVU levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u57	Are you at the end of your reply, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u59	Mr Beuker's speech was a brief interruption. Then you will have the floor for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u60	I think I'd better say it right away in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u61	Excellent. That's what I thought. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to Mr Beukker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to avoid a misunderstanding for a moment. It is true that our soldiers are very badly paid. It is not by accident that two of the four submarines are on the sidelines, because there is simply no crew for that anymore. It's not exactly by accident that people who are now in service switch to another department. There are examples of this with the DSI and with the BSB. They get a net increase of €500 a month. So the image of gold-edged arrangements at Defense is really over. Defence personnel have not had a collective agreement for a period of six years. There is now a danger of another period coming if we do not get a collective agreement before Christmas. So I still support the idea that they're being paid very badly. I will give Mrs Moonen the example of the exercise allowance. Basically, the military is working overtime for €4.50 gross per hour. Our kids don't even bake burgers for that at McDonald's. In French we say "on apple un chat un chat et un chien un chien": you call a cat a cat and a dog a dog. You have to say things in the right perspective and by his name. This is always about a balance between the constitutional tasks and the capacities that we want to have with our armed forces. In doing so, we must not forget that man is at the heart of the matter. We're talking about armed people here, and we're sending them out as a state general with the government. Mr. Chairman. I am glad that the Minister also sees that there is still a lot of work to be done. I'm sure we'll talk about the Defence Vision another time. I certainly see positive things in that, but I do miss things such as leadership, culture and that sort of thing. But I'm sure we'll be able to talk about that separately. Mr President, concluding on the RVU. I hear the Secretary of State being positive, but I still miss the sense of urgency. We can do that very simply by simply saying: it is a austerity measure and nothing else. The law has been respected and a tax regime has been introduced, which is actually going on and on, but is no longer fair. That is why I would like to table a motion on this, Mr President. Do you want me to read her all the way out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u63	If you want that to be part of the deliberations, it is wise that you read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u64	Then I'm gonna go read to her, 'cause I'm gonna read to her. The: Mr Beuker, Mr Van Pareren and Mr Berkhout proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[part of the military personnel has been regularly (forced) functionally discharged for many years in accordance with the Military Civil Service Act;]] [[the Ministry of Defence is still fined for this by means of the Early Entry Scheme (RVU);]] [[there is a conflict of interest: compliance with the Military Civil Service Act and tax penalties;]] [[there is a wrong picture of actually spent budget;]] [[This is contrary to the objective and promise of achieving 2% GNP in 2024;]] [[noting that:]] [[they have been allowed to do so for several years;]] [[the Ministry of Defence is, and continues to be, disproportionate to and out of debt;]] [[now the military personnel have the choice to serve longer, which means that the need for the fine has expired;]] [[withdrawal of the RVU fine (and refund) contributes to a consistent, increased and actually available multiannual Defence budget growing to 2% GDP in 2024;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately withdraw the fine to be paid by the Ministry of Defence under the Early Retiring Scheme (RVU fine), to refund the fines already paid by the Ministry of Defence to date and to allow this money to benefit the staff of Defence (including remuneration system, working conditions, alloy spaces, canteens etc.),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I listen to what Mr Beuker has to say, I certainly agree with him that the people are the gold of our organization. That is also half of our budget, I would like to stress. Half of our budget is made up of human costs. That is, I think, also important to say again here. The Secretary of State has already said something about the payment. We agree that we need to look at the pay structure. We have also indicated this in our budget texts. Of course, you always need several people to do that. It is not just the executives or the Defence Organisation that do that; we also need the trade unions to do that. The misunderstanding that we didn't have a collective agreement for six years, I'd like to take it away here. Of course, we do have a collective agreement. We did. It's closed. So I'd like to get rid of that misunderstanding. That must be said for the sake of clarity. Mr Beuker now calls that it has lasted six years, but we have managed to do it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u66	Do not want to have the debate by shouting through the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u67	We did manage to get a collective agreement. I therefore believe that this should be put in the right perspective. One more thing in terms of comparing apples with apples, or chats and chats, as Mr Beucker said. You mentioned the terms of employment at the DSI and the BSB. The DSI consists largely of marines. Two-thirds of the people working there right now are Marines. I always say 'that's because our soldiers shoot better than policemen', but I probably shouldn't say that in this venerable building. No, I can see it, but I'm sure the Minister of JenV won't hear about this. It's an important part of the military at the moment. What I always find complicated is that these terms of employment are different. Then your point about the BSB. You're just wrong about that. People are switching to the BSB. They're just military. I'm the marshal's department manager, and the BSB is also just the marshal's office. Those people just get paid well. They get paid decently, so you can't say that people who switch to the BSB aren't military anymore. They'll just be and remain military. So I just wanted to get rid of that misunderstanding. I agree that apples should be compared with apples, but then we should also do that with each other. Since the motion is about the RVU, I assume it will be judged by the Secretary of State. That brings me to the end of my reply. What I want to say in particular is that we stand for our people. We also believe that our people, if they are deployed in missions..... we send them there with the best equipment and the best equipment should go there. I agree with Mr Beuker. I always have the example of Hannie van Leeuwen in front of me, who has always said so. That is where Mr Beuker and I are coming back in the same direction. The Secretary of State and I will always fight for that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u68	Thank you. There's still time for one supplementary question, Mr. Beukker. Go ahead. You just need to press the microphone foot pedal if you want to speak. The instructions are on your desk. Maybe you can read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u69	Do I hear the Minister say that there is no financial incentive for soldiers to move to other departments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u70	No, you can't hear me say that. You will hear me say that I think you are making a crazy comparison with the BSB, which you mention. The people at the BSB are just military: they're marshalssees. That's the military police, as you know. Those people are just in our service. So you hear me say that this comparison does not apply as far as I am concerned. Of course, there's a perspective for a military sergeant who's going to work at the BSB. That is a completely different education and that is also better paid for, but that is simply paid for by us and that is on our budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u71	Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State for her appreciation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Beuker making that comparison. Maybe it's good to report that we have over 30,000 functions on over 60,000 people. There are great differences, precisely because we have this diversity. As Mr Beuker himself knows, we cannot go to an hourly fee. We'll buy it all off. That is also the reason why the basic salary for military personnel is an additional premium in relation to civilians within the Defense Department. That is why we have a fee for extra attachment every month. That's why we have more than 110 allowances and why the police only have 10. That is just to point out that it is very difficult to compare things, precisely because we have that diversity. But we agree that something must be done and that we must do something at the bottom of the wage building. We've already taken steps in that. In doing so, I would also like to point out our commitment to the revision of the remuneration system. But it does begin with the fact that you first look at the special position of the military, the job evaluation. Then comes the basic remuneration and then comes the allowances. That's what we're doing right now. The same applies to collective agreements. I have always learned that negotiations are taking place between the power stations and the employer. So that seems like the place to have that conversation with each other. Then the motion to letter D. I didn't object for nothing last year, or even two years ago, to the Tax Office for the first time. That's exactly what I did to signal that I find the RVU fine unfair. That's rejected. Eventually, we didn't bring an appeal, because the same would come out of it. It's a bit of a waste to spend taxpayers' money on that. That is why we have said: if the Tax Administration can't do anything with this in the present way, you have to make sure that you assess it in full. You have to look at this from a fiscal perspective and from social legislation. The Military Civil Service Act is from 1966 and the RVU tax from 2006. So there's some time in between. That is why the committee is going to work. I didn't ask the committee to come forward with any findings by March 2021 for nothing. As the Minister said, many of the points you put forward are good points for a formation meeting for a subsequent cabinet, with or without the political parties here. Then there is a research report, which will clearly show how the special position of the military relates to the RVU fine. It will also provide insight into the issues to be taken into account in the new pension system that needs to be developed. I understand Mr Beuker's intention, but I cannot help but dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u73	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-4.u74	I come to the budget. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
