ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport. Of course, I would also like to welcome all Members of Parliament and the people who are following this debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD. Speaking time shall be four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last night we heard a sharp relaxation of the corona measures from the Prime Minister. That is wonderful news and a great compliment to the Netherlands. Thanks to everyone who has put up with this in recent months and has followed the measures well, we can return a little further to a more normal life. This does not mean that we are already here; a message that I do not like to bring, but which I do not think can be emphasised enough. For the time being, further measures will be needed to prevent a further flare-up of the virus. With the facilitations that have now been introduced and the measures that are still in force, the VVD understands the call for more customisation. Can trade fairs, where sufficient distance is possible and access is regulated, now open again from 1 July? Is tailor-made work possible in the MBO, where in the first year more young people under 18 years of age than young people over 18 years of age? Is the cabinet prepared to look again specifically at the travel industry and the acute situation in which it finds itself? The SGR guarantee applies only to the consumer, as a guarantee in the event of bankruptcy. But that bankruptcy is precisely what the VVD is trying to prevent. The demand for customisation is not only reflected in our economic sector, but also in care. We were very happy to hear yesterday that more visitors are allowed in nursing homes that are corona-free. The VVD calls on the directors of these nursing homes to also give and give this space to residents and visitors. Let the reins celebrate where it's allowed and where it's possible. Mr. Chairman. Then test it. It turns out that people with complaints don't go one-two-three to a test site. They quickly think: well, I have a bit of a cold; it's not that bad. How is the Minister going to ensure that more people take the step to get tested? Especially now that the relaxations are in progress, the risk of infection is greater. How does the Minister further highlight the need for testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mrs Marijnissen will speak first and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr Veldman mentioned the concern. I have a question about that. Last Tuesday, Mr Veldman's party voted for the third time against a proposal to improve the structural value of caregivers, not just with an applause, to which everyone including the VVD has participated. It is therefore not just a bonus, but also a structural improvement in the appreciation of caregivers. And what is threatening to happen now? Not only does the coalition vote against this structural appreciation for the caregivers, but healthcare providers are also threatening to lose their bonuses this week because they have worked overtime at the height of the crisis, which now gives them a bonus. Caregivers also threaten to be able to whistle for their salary increases, because the room for salary increases is reduced rather than increased. My question to Mr Veldman is: is this really the appreciation that the VVD has for our caregivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u5	I think Mrs Marijnissen is asking me a number of questions. It states that the VVD is against a structurally better appreciation of people working in the care sector. That is by no means the case. She refers to a motion that has been tabled in the Chamber, on which we have indeed voted three times. That was a motion that didn't make it. He didn't make it, because the VVD didn't get any support. That motion stated that the government must ensure better working conditions. And that's not how it works. Working conditions are agreed between employers and employees. Mrs Marijnissen's second question is about the painful situation which indeed arises from the fact that care workers have worked more in recent months. Then, because they receive a higher salary, they are confronted with shortages on surcharges. I find that, with her, painful. And I ask, with her, the Cabinet to see how that can be resolved, or it can be resolved, and if so, to do so. But I do realize that that can be rather complicated. We know we've been asking a lot of the tax authorities over the past few years, so it's got to be possible in a good way. But I agree with her that this is a very painful consequence, which is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u6	This can't be happening. This can't be! Here is the VVD, the largest party in our national parliament, and it does not even know the content of the motion that it voted three times. The content was not just a better salary. The content was very well formulated, namely: instructs the government to make a plan to improve salaries and working conditions for our caregivers, to ensure that it does not just stay with that applause, but that something changes structurally. Mr Veldman cannot get out of here, should he not get out of here, with such a lame story, which is also incorrect in substance, with which he simply smacks in the face of all those caregivers? Of all those caregivers a part now says: I am considering leaving care, because I feel put aside by politics, by the cabinet. Is that what Mr Veldman wants on his conscience?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u7	That was a nice reference to the motion. I summarized this slightly differently, but Mrs Marijnissen now refers to it as follows: the government must make a plan to improve working conditions. That's exactly the problem. It is not up to the government to make that plan; it is up to employers to make agreements with employees about remuneration. And yes, the government also has a role to play in this, because yes, we are fixing annually the public contribution to the development of working conditions, to which I believe 1.1 billion has been added this year. But it is still up to employers and employees to make these agreements, and it is not up to the cabinet to draw up a plan for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u8	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u9	But Mr Veldman is simply contradicting himself. The first answer is to me: that is not possible at all, because that is not what we are talking about at all. Then he himself rightly says: that is what we are talking about. Indeed, the government is partly responsible for ensuring that there is room for increased pay in the healthcare sector. So you shouldn't think, because that's impossible, that you're getting out of here today with a substantively incorrect and feeble answer, and with a slap in the face of the caregivers. May I also remind you that we have discussed, for example, salaries in education very often here? That was with your party, too, and I think those salaries have gone up; very well. I didn't hear it here either: that's not what politics is about. So for several reasons, it's wrong. I will ask Mr Veldman again. The government certainly has a role to play. The government can make choices. We have to make it here. Does the VVD leave it alone with applause for caregivers or do we pull together for better, structural appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u10	It's still a motion asking for a cabinet plan. Mrs Marijnissen and others could have asked: if you find that next year, or this year with the 1.1 billion, for example in hospitals, the wages of the staff increase by 5%, and if there are bottlenecks in the consultation between employers and employees that they themselves are unable to fill in... I shall, for example, look at the hospitals and the reserves they have in the medical sector. Mrs Marijnissen also knows that these are not zero. So there's room there, too. Even so, the question should be: if there are problems, is the cabinet prepared to see if there is room to resolve bottlenecks? That's a different question than the question: Cabinet, make a plan. That is what you and Mr Asscher asked. We have said no to that, because it is not up to the cabinet to make this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u11	I have Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u12	I have two questions. My first question is about the bonus. Is it really true that I heard the representative of the VVD just about that bonus of €1,000 net for the heroes in care, the care professionals, say: I also think this should be solved, but maybe it can't and then it can't? Did I understand you said this? So the people who have earned the €1,000 do not get this amount right away, because the bonus affects the amount of their surcharges: their care allowance, their childcare allowance and their rent allowance. And the VVD says: it would be nice if this could be solved, but if it is a cigar out of its own box and this cannot be solved, then we will not draw knives for it, in a political sense. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u13	No, I didn't say that. I responded to Mrs Marijnissen's question about the situation that arises when people have worked more, have been given more salary and, as a result, are cut back on the allowances they receive. I just answered that. I'm not talking about the health bonuses. I didn't mention the $1,000. With regard to the €1,000, I agree with Mr Wilders: that amount is that amount. It is therefore necessary to regulate, in any construction, that people have a net €1,000 left over. That's what I read in Minister De Jonge's letter. I think that letter was delivered to the Chamber today or last night. It states that the starting point is €1,000 and that the scheme should be designed so that people who receive €1,000 net.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u14	But those people don't get that $1,000 net if they lose their fees at the same time because of those overtime hours that's exactly the same question. That leaves perhaps €100 out of the €1,000. You can't be serious. You say, "Well, I agree with Wilders, we have to do that $1,000." But when it comes to the surcharges, you say: yes, if that is not resolved, sorry, but then it stops. This means that people get €1,000 first and then a few hundred euros less care allowance, a few hundred euros less childcare allowance and a few hundred euros less rent allowance and other supplements. You can't be serious. Then you're standing here with a cigar out of your own box, aren't you? What are these people supposed to think of you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u15	It would help if Mr Wilders in the debate were to look at facts separately from each other rather than mixed up. We're talking about two different things. Mr Wilders talks about the health bonus on the one hand. He then confuses this with extra income that people get because they've worked more hours. Let's break them up. With regard to the health bonus, I agree with Mr Wilders. That should leave €1,000 net at the end of the journey. I read in the letter from the Minister of Health that this is the assignment that the cabinet sees for itself: either way, left or right, €1,000 net. That's wwn. Two. The other fact is that there are people who, fortunately, let us be proud of it, have worked more in the past few months than was actually in their contract. If you work more, you get more pay. That's understandable. It's very painful and annoying that no one in the front, neither you nor I, has thought: hey, if you work more, that can have consequences for your surcharges. So I agree with you that we need to fix this if this can be repaired. I'm just giving the profit warning that this might not be that easy. I do not expect a solution from the cabinet tomorrow, but I do ask the cabinet to look at it in a good way. Because of the simplicity of saying that we will settle that for a while, you and I know that such a question to the Tax Administration might be a little too much to ask for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u16	So that means that the VVD says that it's only a question of whether all those people in the care are getting something. As Mrs Marijnissen said, you voted against the motions for better working conditions. And now that it's about making some extra money and getting a bonus, you say that bonus must be; don't confuse this. If these people get cut back on their fees, they end up getting less. You're not going through the fire for them. Mr President, I have one other question, if I may. Does the colleague of the VVD know how many people... Perhaps you were also present this morning at the briefing by Mr Van Dissel. I was not there, by the way, but my colleague Mrs Agema was. Have you seen and can you tell me how many people have been infected in the air lately? It was right there. It said what caused the infections and where humans were infected. Can you remember how many people are infected outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u17	No, I don't know exactly what the number is, but it's probably less than the number of people infected inside. I do know, however, that contaminations in the home situation in particular sprang out in that list. In the home situation usually means behind the front door, so inside. The number of infections outside will probably be less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u18	Well, the answer is zero, a big zero. No one, no one from that state, was infected outside. That is not surprising either, because we already know from earlier research from China, Japan and the United States of America, do you remember? Of those 7,322 people who had been investigated, only two were infected outside. I'm asking you this because Prime Minister Rutte's one-and-a-half-meter dictatorship outside is driving the catering industry crazy. You were just talking about bankruptcy. That brings the catering industry to bankruptcies. The 1.5 meter ensures that the catering industry immediately goes on the bottle, with their terraces, despite that weird shot they have now invented, while no one, but really no one, gets infected outside. So if you really are a man of your word and really believe that there should be no bankruptcies, then at least you say out in the open: away with the Prime Minister's one-and-a-half-metre dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u19	Here too, it would be wise for Mr Wilders not to shop selectively, but to mention all the facts. Because, yes, it may be that in the statistics presented this morning, there are zero infections outside. But, yes, it also said that half the number of infected people does not have an out-of-date source. So it could just be a reasonable group that's infected outside. Outside, the source isn't that easy to figure out, because if I walk out of here right now and I get infected by someone outside, I have no idea who that is. Not to mention you'll be able to trace the source. That's the risk you'll have outside. So you have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr Asscher, then Mr Klaver and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u21	The VVD just doesn't want it. The VVD just doesn't find it. The VVD thought the applause was enough. The VVD is against the salary going up and the workload going down. That is why the VVD voted against that motion three times. The rest is an excuse. It's really bullshit. We are all making available the means by which employers and employees agree on salaries. You can leave that to them. But don't give me an excuse. Then explain that you thought it was enough. Last autumn it was already clear that more was needed, that the workload increased and people threatened to leave the profession. Since then, they've been working day and night. Now that the terraces are opening, they are allowed to deliver the catch-up care. You just don't want it. You think it's enough. You think it's enough. My question to the VVD is: do you, as a political party, think that these salaries should be raised, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u22	It is remarkable to hear that Mr Asscher can describe as facts what the considerations of the VVD are. I believe that I have just indicated to Mr Wilders and Mrs Marijnissen what the consideration of the VVD has been to your motion and to the motion you tabled together with Mrs Marijnissen. That motion called for the cabinet to make a plan. That's the wrong shape. What if you were to ask me, "Everyone deserves a good salary and a good salary to work?" Then the answer is yes. Do I give people a higher salary in health care? Yes. Do I ask those responsible to commit themselves to this? Yes. Then I say, employers, talk to employees and get an appropriate reward. If, also looking at the reserves, it turns out that there are bottlenecks, as Mrs Marijnissen said, then the government comes up with the annual contribution, which was 1.1 billion this year. If research shows that the bottlenecks of the sector itself are insoluble, then you have a conversation with each other. Then it's up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u23	This is not an answer to the question. "If it turns out that there are bottlenecks," says Mr Veldman, "if it turns out that there are issues." Look what's happened lately. Four out of ten workers in care consider leaving that box. The workload is enormous. You say I give everyone a higher salary. That's what we do here. It's a political question. If you say here "I think they should get a higher salary," that is the message to the cabinet. Those bottlenecks are there. They're not that hard to find either. More than 100,000 people have also expressed their opinion that it should be more than applause. That applause has become poison in the ears of the people who have worked so hard for us, because they saw you clap but no, against, saw voices. The VVD's just against it. The VVD thinks it's okay. My question is: do you really think it's enough? Or do you say with us that we can do that with bottlenecks, with employers and employees, with the roles "you need more pay for the workers in care"? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u24	Yeah, I'm giving everyone a good paycheck. And yes, I also give people in care a higher salary than they have now. And yes, I think it's up to employers to take that responsibility. And yes, if there are bottlenecks, you can also look at the government. But how's it going a lot? Let's take last year. Hospital staff were the last to have a collective agreement. In the summer, the foreman of the Dutch Association of Hospitals, Mr Melkert, called you well-known: "It is impossible to reach an agreement. This can't be happening. We can't afford this." An agreement was then reached with 5%. So it was possible. So there was no bottleneck. So you also have to be honest: when is there a bottleneck and when isn't? Then you shouldn't start whining in front if it's actually possible. I blame employers for that. So you don't have to. You didn't have to. So you have to follow the process as we agreed: employers and employees are the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u25	So the applause was actually the message: "Don't cry. First, prove there's a bottleneck. You have worked hard with all of us, but this applause is actually for the employers, for the workers, for the process. We're not gonna do anything else." No, it's not like that. We give direction to the cabinet here as the House of Representatives. Our message must be: these people deserve a better appreciation structurally. As the largest political party, you should be in favour of that. If you're against that, you should be honest about it. You're not doing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think I do. This is a bit of a shame. This is a bit of what Mr Wilders just did, namely a little selective shopping in what I say. With 'jammers' I was talking about Mr Melker, well known to Mr Asscher, who laments on behalf of the employers. You didn't have to, because the money was there. In the end, he concluded a collective agreement with an increase of 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u27	I just don't believe this attitude of the VVD. It is said: no, we are in favour of it, but the motion was somewhat ill-designed. If you do not have the numbers of Mr Asscher or Mrs Marijnissen, I would be happy to share them with you. You can just call them to see if we can change it and how we could pull up here together so that it is not something from the left or from the right, but that we are moving together here together to ensure that people get in the care they are entitled to. Last year was a completely different case. There was no one here in the Chamber who said: well, those hospitals are so pathetic, let's give them extra money. 'Cause we knew there was money there. Mr Melkert, as the representative of these hospitals, had indeed to come to terms with it. He did. But now there's something else going on. We're not just talking about the hospitals, where there might still be a little reserve. We are also talking about home care, community care and all those nurses in the nursing homes. We know that there are no resources available to give them the salary increase that is needed. We know that. That's why it's our move, and no one else. For me, the cabinet doesn't have to make a plan about exactly how these salaries are going up. I want us as a parliament to say that the contribution we make annually to the care of these salaries is increasing. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u28	If there are problems that are not insoluble, I agree with you. But it starts with the analysis of whether there really is a bottleneck or whether you are calling that out front, as Mr Melkert did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u29	That's too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u30	This also applies to other sectors, for which I believe Minister Van Rijn, at the time as Secretary of State, released EUR 2 billion. Is it fully deployed? Or is there a bottleneck suggested that maybe there isn't? It therefore begins with the presentation of the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u31	That's your homework. You're a Member of Parliament. It is your job to see what is actually going on with the financial position of all these institutions. I've just outlined it to you. Yes, at the hospitals there may be a very small amount of room in the reserves, but a lot has already been made up of that, precisely because of what happened last year. That was good. I agreed. But we know about all those other sectors. I don't need an investigation for that. It is my job to know what these sectors are like, whether money is available there. It is my job to read CPB estimates and see that the Central Planning Bureau says that next year the government's contribution due to corona is going down by 2%. That's your job! We know that there is not enough money for this structural salary increase. That is why we must vote as a parliament. My question remains: are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u32	Yeah, if there are bottlenecks that are not soluble. If it turns out in the sector that they are not soluble and then it is a real wage increase, then I am standing next to you. But in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u33	I'm getting messages from people who work in care. I'm sure you'll get those messages too, and they hurt me. They tell us how hard they have been working lately, how they have neglected their families and how they have taken care of people at risk for their own lives. They've been waiting for a bonus. They're hearing that their fees might go down. That's because they've worked more than they actually wanted, but that's what they've done to help others. Work pressure's too high. They're thinking about maybe getting out of care. The answer of the Chamber cannot then be: it is super wrapped up and we need to see if there are any bottlenecks. We have to stand in front of it. I fully agree with you that sectors and employers should also contribute if there is money, but the government will also have to come to terms with it. The statement of principle must be: your salary is improving this autumn. Are you prepared to make that statement? The salary of the people in care is improving this autumn and the government will contribute what it needs. Are you willing to do that? Can we find each other there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u34	I think I'm getting the same answer again. Cao negotiations begin between employers and employees. If the next collective agreement negotiations show that there are unbridgeable bottlenecks, not on the basis of wishes and on the basis of what employers are offering, but financial bottlenecks that are not soluble, then we will talk to each other. That's what the annual government contribution is for. This year, that was 1.1 billion. And if we think that analysis is correct, then we need to increase that contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u35	I come to a conclusion, Mr President, because it is going to be a greyish record. I had hoped to get the VVD to join us together as a parliament, so that we could make it something from the left and the right, so that today we can give a clear signal to people who work in the care sector: you are making progress. I've tried it in six different ways, but I get the same answer every time. That answer is: "Find out, sector. Why don't you go talk to each other in care and see if you can get out? If that really doesn't work, we'll check it out." But that's not the answer people are waiting for. It is our responsibility, including your responsibility, to say here today: money will be added to the care of all the people who work there this autumn, and we as a government are going to deliver it. You are not prepared to do that, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'm not saying that. It is a pity that Mr Klaver does not want to hear it, even if I say it a number of times. I didn't say that. I continue to believe that the government should not sit in the employer's chair. I continue to believe that it is up to employers and employees to reach good agreements. I continue to believe that if you then come to the conclusion in the analysis of the bottlenecks that they are not soluble, you as a government with the annual government contribution are inclined. I will therefore stick with Mr Klaver's statement that I am giving everyone in the care a good salary and that I am also giving everyone in the care a wage increase next year. But it is on the basis of everyone's responsibility, not by simply and simply shouting here: we arrange it as a House of Representatives. 'Cause you're not taking care of it as a Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u37	The VVD's answers are painful, especially if you've been working your teeth in care for the past few months. I hear Mr Veldman say that he gives the people in the care a higher salary. My question is: what does that prove?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u38	Let's face it, either we go as a room or I don't go as a VVD member about the salaries in health care. I give everyone the best. As I just said, I would also like to give the people in the care a wage rise this year. You're just simplifying reality. It would be a big deal if I said here: I think they should have so much of it this year. That's not for me to say. It is up to employees themselves to put a demand on the table. It is up to employers to discuss this. It is up to employers to ensure a good working conditions package, which includes that salary, and not just the salary, by the way. Mr Klaver was just talking about workload. Well, there's also a bit of change with the employers about workload, because they can do less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u39	I really wonder what the value of the VVD saying here is that they give people in care a higher salary, but that they can't really do anything about it, because that's actually what Mr Veldman says. I note that we have had a ten-time debate here with the Prime Minister who could not at all show why EUR 2 billion less corporate tax had to be paid. We debated here tonight, not on the basis of facts, not on the basis of bottlenecks. He couldn't explain it to anyone. It was just ideology. I have talked to Mr Dijkhoff about this. He said: we belong to the party that wants to pay less tax; sometimes it belongs to a party. The Christian Union has even said: I am prepared to swallow it like a melon. It was unfair. Eventually, it's off the table. So I note that the VVD is willing to give away 2 billion annually to the multinationals, without any justification. If you add that up, it's 50, 60 billion. And we ship the care staff with a tip of €1,000, because structuralally we just don't do anything about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u40	I think that's like comparing apples to pears. The dividend tax has not been abolished, but for Unilever it is going to zero. So we've seen the result. We've seen what it's brought us in the end. That's the effect. Unilever goes away, so the dividend tax revenue is €0. That is independent of the appreciation you can have for and can give to the VVD that also gives people in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yes, and then we were at the dividend tax... In the latest General Reviews, a proposal from me was assumed that wages in large companies should increase by 5%. That's a statement from Parliament, with the signature of the VVD underneath. So Parliament has simply said that wages should be raised by 5%. How dare Mr Veldman hide behind the so-called argument that Parliament is not about this? You yourself agreed with my proposal that wages should be raised by 5%. Apparently, it wasn't a problem at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u42	I think that call was broader. That call came after a number of years in which we saw that things were improving economically, but in which wages were left behind. Then we called on all employers: dear friends, there is economic growth again, so let the workers take advantage of it. We have made a statement with each other to all these employers: let those workers benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u43	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u44	I was there because it was my motion. The point is, I didn't hear you say, "God, that's not Parliament's point. You supported that proposal. It said that wages should rise by 5%. I'm saying this because the VVD is hiding behind it now that it's not about it. It is wrong in everything, but it is also so irresponsible in everything. Mr Veldman says: we do not want to do anything until there are bottlenecks. I'll mention bottlenecks. People in care have a huge workload. It's a long time ago. People in care were already in action for the corona crisis because they just couldn't keep up. For the first time in our national history, there was a strike in the hospitals. That was never shown in our country. I'll mention another bottleneck. Four out of ten health care providers talk about bottlenecks, and if there is no structural better appreciation, there is a risk that they will leave care. How many more bottlenecks does Mr Veldman want to hear before he is prepared to do what for that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u45	Then I suggest that you answer this and then move on, because we have 14 more speakers. You're the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u46	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm only doing my best here. Mrs Marijnissen's question... Now I have spontaneously forgotten the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mrs Marijnissen is always prepared to repeat that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u48	It was about the bottlenecks. First, Mr Veldman finds out that we are not dealing with it here. I just said I did. That's what you thought before. Then he hides behind the so-called bottlenecks. I've called you a trifle of bottlenecks. So would you please stop hiding behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u49	I'm not hiding behind it. I always mention that to show what order you have to follow when you talk about working conditions, when you're talking about an employee's salary. That game begins between employers and employees. Representatives of employers and employees are both inclined to arrive at a good working conditions package and thus to a possible wage increase, which I would like to give everyone, in a year to come. Next, we have within the care the agreement of an annual public contribution, this year 1.1 billion, to provide for insoluble bottlenecks. If next rounds show that these bottlenecks are indeed unbridgeable, that there are no reserves, which there are, for example, at the hospitals, then this is our move. And yes, I'd like to ask a question like that to the cabinet. Then go see if those bottlenecks are soluble, but that is still something other than your motion of: come up with a plan for the salary of the people in care. Mr. Chairman. A growing group of people are turning against the measures, the 'prevention paradox', as the Minister of Health said yesterday: it's all happening now, so what are we worried about? It is therefore necessary to strengthen the basis for the approach and to evaluate and further adapt the approach where possible, because we naturally want to avoid a second lockdown as we have seen it from March, because that would be the death blow for even more companies. I tabled a motion on this during the previous debate, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to tackle the issue of promoting acceptance. Then I would like to dwell on the concept map triage with the code black for the ic as it is now. The VVD thinks it's nice and courageous that the KNMG and the FMS have set up a balancing framework for doctors and specialists in case it comes to code black in our country and there are more patients who need ic-help than we have beds. The VVD wants this discussion to be held first where it belongs, in the field, with the doctors, with the ethicists and with the patients, those who may ever have to make this terribly difficult assessment. We now fit in with restraint. Does the Minister agree with me? The VVD thinks we should wait for the final version. As a Chamber, let us not discuss a further shared final document with the authors, for example, by means of a technical briefing. That seems to me to be the right way forward. First, let's make sure we're well informed as soon as the play is finished. We must not say anything about this from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u50	Could I ask Mr Veldman of the VVD if he knows what percentage of the people in the Netherlands are currently infected? We have 17.5 million people. Do you know how many of those people are infected right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u51	It's a sort of quiz question from Mr. Wilders. I don't know what today's current percentage is. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u52	Or the number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u53	No, but I'm sure Mr. Wilders knows, so he's going to tell me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u54	You don't know, do you? How many of the 17,5 million people are infected? Isn't that a very relevant question for a care spokesperson? How many people are infected? Do you have no idea how many people are infected in the Netherlands now? It's just on the RIVM website, but you have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u55	The good thing is that with all the measures we've taken in recent months, the number of infections is now relatively low. That is good because that makes it possible for the relaxations announced yesterday to continue on 1 July. In fact, we can relax more than the original roadmap said. That's good and good, and we have to hold on to it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u56	That may be nice, but what's not beautiful is that you have no idea how many there are. You say: there are relatively few. I can tell you that there are not relatively few of them, but there are absolutely few of them. According to RIVM estimates, there is a range of between 1,000 and 2,200 people are currently infected in the Netherlands. This means that of those 17.5 million people in the Netherlands, 0.01% are infected and 99.99% of people are not infected at the moment. Hence my question. It wasn't a quiz question, though I find it very strange that the honourable Member doesn't know the answer. In any case, it means that the measures are very quickly disproportionate, that you can no longer paralyze an entire country with Prime Minister Rutte's one and a half meters dictatorship, especially outside, if only 0.01% of the whole of the Netherlands is infected. If you're going to a restaurant or a terrace right now, chances are you're gonna get infected. I don't know exactly, because I'm not a mathematician, probably 1 in 10 to 20 million. Then the measure of 1.5 metres is no longer proportionate, which means that people lose their freedoms to do things together and entrepreneurs in the catering industry go bankrupt because they can no longer fill their terraces and certainly their tables inside. It's terrible for those 1,715 people who are infected, and I hope they all get better soon when they're sick and I wish them a quick recovery, but in terms of 0.01%, the measures are disproportionate. You are a liberal, so you should say: these measures go far too far for me. If 50% is infected or 30% is different, but it's 0.01%. Think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u57	I cannot blame everyone, but I can blame Mr Wilders for the fact that he has apparently already lost his memory, that apparently he has forgotten how quickly it happened in February and March, that he is not looking at where fireplaces are, in the Netherlands but also in other countries. Take North Rhine-Westphalia, a state in Germany, adjacent to the Netherlands, where last week in an area of that state the famous reproduction factor went from under 1 to 2.88. That means every 100 people infect 288 people. That's the kind of risk you shouldn't be playing with. Yes, I agree with Mr Wilders. The sooner we can get rid of the measures that are still in place, the sooner I will be; the sooner the better. But I am also someone who has to look after public health, and so I also have a responsibility to ensure that we keep it under control, now and later. Because everyone also knows that the risk in the fall, when we're all back inside again, is greater. I don't want to relive the fact that people on the ICUs have to work their asses off because there's too many people on the ICUs. I don't want that code to go black with what I just named. And so we have to hang in there for a while, because the virus isn't gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u58	The VVD is right. The virus isn't gone. It's a good thing we're getting ready in case there's a second wave. So the point the VVD mentions about the ic-plan is an important point. But it was also said straight away that we should not interfere. I am extremely pleased that Minister Van Rijn has interfered and that he has said that only an age limit is not acceptable to us. The question is: should we not interfere, or should we be allowed to give these kinds of criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u59	I didn't say we shouldn't interfere. I said now is not the time to interfere. A roadmap has been drawn up by the KNMG and the Federation of Medical Specialists, by these trade associations. Let these organizations first talk to their supporters, to the doctors, to specialists. Let them have a conversation with the patients' organisations at first: is this a script that we can stand for when that difficult situation arises? And that is where I think we can talk about it here. Let society, precisely because they are such far-reaching choices, talk about it with each other, with those people who are involved. And then here. And yes, I regret the Minister's statement. I think he spoke out of turn. He shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u60	Then it is quite clear to me that the VVD is loose from the people in the country. 'Cause older people are really freaked out about their own accident. In any case, the fact that this Minister makes such a statement gives him confidence. So I regret this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u61	This is also a bit unfortunate. We simply supported Mr Krol's motion at the time. You're not gonna make choices based on age. Mrs. Van Brenk is now suggesting that we do that here. I am merely arguing that this is such a difficult and difficult subject that you should not run into everyone as a politician. Let us first give doctors, specialists, patients the opportunity to talk about it with each other, precisely because it concerns both and precisely because they are such difficult choices. And then, if there's a final document, let's have the conversation here: what do we think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr Wilders has just said: 1,750 infections at the moment. Mr Veldman did not have that right away, but that is possible. Then Mr Wilders said: I do not know very well whether that is 1 in 20 million, but that too is a fairly simple calculation. It's 17 million divided by 1,700, and then you get to about 1 in 10,000. So the contagion rate isn't 1 in 20 million, it's 1 in 10,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u63	What did you want to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u64	My question to Mr Veldman is this. On page 2 of the letter we received, it says that we are not at all able to see the effects of the relaxation of 1 June. It says: everything after 5 June is just very difficult to estimate. He indicated at the beginning that he was happy with the relaxation. I am. But I also see that a lot of people in society just can't follow it that well anymore. So on what basis is it suggested that an entrepreneur should buy plexiglass, that you should keep five feet away, that you can't sit with family and that if you're sitting in the garden with the four of you, you get a fine? That is being proposed, when we just don't know it at all at the moment. So everything after 5 June is still difficult to estimate, but we will announce those relaxations from 1 July. How does Mr Veldman view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u65	That's how we've done it over and over again in the past few months. Mr Van Dissel also showed that this morning in his sheets: we steer by looking in the rear-view mirror. We know what we've had, but we don't know what's coming, so we don't know what the effects of relaxation are either. You won't know until a few weeks later. And yes, let's hope it's heading for July 1st, it's not yet, is it? The figures remain as they are now. So now you can present the intention: if things continue to go well, we will be relaxing on 1 July. That is what happened at the end of May with the date 1 July. Then the risk of contamination remains. Thanks for the math: 1 per 10,000. So that still means that some things can't yet be done. I'm sorry about that, too. I lived in Nijmegen for 30 years. The Four Days in Nijmegen is off this year. That's mortal and mortal sin for all those runners and all those partyers. It's a shame, but yes, those are nights when there are just 200,000 men in that city. Well, 1 in 10,000 and then with 200,000 people, packed close together: you can also make the math. Unfortunately, that is not yet possible. It would be nice if, from September, for example, larger festivities could be. It would be nice if things were smooth after 1 July, the figures were good and the analysis could be made that we could go a little further and that larger events could also be done. Unfortunately, that will be too late for the Four Days. That's too bad. Next year, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u66	I agree with Mr Veldman. I also once walked with the Four Days and it is an important event, but that was not my concern. I was concerned that we in society see that people are just less able to follow it. It seems as if at the moment a little less cautious is being looked at the dangers of contamination. Again, that is difficult to reconcile when you see that in the technical briefing and on page 2 of the government letter it is said that one does not know very well what the relaxations of 1 June will bring. And now we say... it's okay with me; I'm happy with it and I see entrepreneurs want it. It may be even more, but it must still be possible to follow. Otherwise it's gonna be some kind of randomness, and I just wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u67	I understand the dilemma outlined by Mr Azarkan, but we also had this dilemma around 1 June and also with the relaxations in May. That's the annoying thing about the fact that you actually only have numbers in the rearview mirror and you can't look forward. But I agree with him that we're taking a risk. Let's hope that risk doesn't occur. That is precisely why I have just called on the Minister in my contribution to continue to ensure that people follow the measures that are still leading today. I understand that people think: well, it's not that bad. But the virus isn't gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I see Mrs Ouwehand for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u69	Yes, I thought I'd wait for Mr Veldman to finish. I thought maybe the VVD, just because I hear them make such a point that it would be nice if we could get our freedoms back... At yesterday's press conference of the cabinet it was said that if there was another outbreak, we would have to knock it down regionally. I also hear Mr Veldman, as the cabinet did, refer to Germany, to North Rhine-Westphalia. There we see that the slaughterhouses are a huge risk and that people around them are losing their freedoms again, because it is a huge fireplace. People may not even be able to go on vacation anymore. So I was wondering why the VVD has no critical questions towards the cabinet about how to prevent this in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u70	I think this is a bit of a repetition of the debate that Mrs Ouwehand and I had two or three weeks ago when she asked me questions about mink breeding. It's just that we have a deal with each other about that. At the time of detection of infection, such a company will be disposed of. That is different from what Mrs Ouwehand really wants, because she wants to close all the mink farms and all the slaughterhouses now. But then you just have to be honest with me. If you say that honestly and ask me if the VVD wants to, I can just say: no, I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u71	I think it is indeed very good for everyone if there are fewer animals being hunted by slaughterhouses. My question was not about mink breeders, but about slaughterhouses. I understand from this that the VVD says: "We have to give as many freedoms back to people as possible, but killing animals is so terribly important that we are prepared to take the risk that all people living in the area simply have to go back into the lockdown. We are not interested in the fact that the catering industry in the area of Boxtel should be closed and that people can't go on vacation, because there is only one thing that matters. That is that we kill 2.5 million animals every day in the Netherlands." Is that the VVD position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u72	I can actually hear Mrs Ouwehand say again: close all the slaughterhouses. I think that's her solution, but it wouldn't be my choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u73	There is a difference between 'let's close all slaughterhouses' and what RIVM said in Mr Van Dissel's person this morning, namely 'if you ask me, I will put an end to that situation, but there are other interests, and fortunately I am not going to do so'. That comes after three passed motions and pushing every time, huh? Every time it was said: everything is going well; we are going to do samples. You know who does? That's us, here! If we want the virus not to spread further, if the cabinet says we have to do everything we can to prevent that second wave and if the VVD says it's important that we give people their freedoms back, then one question remains: why does the VVD look so stubbornly away from the situation in slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u74	I am not looking away from the situation in the slaughterhouses. And yes, there's a risk there, just like there are risks in other places. Does that mean you're gonna shut everything down in advance, even if there's just as many risks there? No! Wherever an infection is detected, you need to take measures. I think they're being taken, too. But the simplification that Mrs Ouwehand shows by saying 'there have been infections in slaughterhouses, so all slaughterhouses but close', is too easy and too simple for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u75	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u76	I find it quite disgusting, especially with that quiz just there to see if I have the facts ready. But this is very, very rude not being informed. The abattoirs are incredibly bad! Those people, the migrant workers who have to work there, are brought in by vans. What are those vans doing now? They stop a few miles away. Then they throw the people out and then they have to walk to work so they can say at checkup that there weren't too many people in those vans. And all that to let those scandalous temporary agency get away with it. People in the slaughterhouses are sick and the VVD says there's nothing wrong here. I really, really find it very scandalous if this is the level of information that the VVD's healthcare spokesperson thinks he can enter into the debate. Or is the VVD blindly opting for the economic interests of the slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mrs Ouwehand is taking rather big steps and is therefore calling for all slaughterhouses to be closed down. If she says there are abuses, I agree with her that we need to deal with them. If rules are broken, we have to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u78	That's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u79	Then we have to organize it together in such a way that it does. But that's different from just closing up all slaughterhouses. There are also slaughterhouses that handle their staff well and provide adequate measures. So it is too simple to say: then all close. Let's deal with the abuses together. I think that's the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mr. Chairman. Great news that those fantastic care professionals get a well-earned bonus of €1,000 net. That's why they've worked so hard. They have, as we all know, made a lot of overtime and not for a nice holiday, but because they just have a huge sense of duty and duty. But how much do they have left of that? How much is left of all that money if it turns out that they get less or no childcare allowance, rent allowance or care allowance? That's really unacceptable. That's why I'm asking the cabinet to solve the left or the right how they do it, I really don't care about any of this. Mr. Chairman. The corona rules will be further relaxed on 1 July and that is good news. But there can be a lot more. We need to get back to normal, and we can. When we look at the latest RIVM figures, it turns out that out of the 17,5 million people in the Netherlands, only 1,715 are infected. 99.99% of the Dutch are therefore not infected. This does not mean, of course, that we should all be careless now, but it is disproportionate that with so few contagions we allow companies to go bankrupt by sticking cramped to the Prime Minister's one-and-a-half-metre terror. The risk of contaminations, as I have just said in an interrupting debate, is virtually nil outside, but the hospitality industry is still screwed. With the maximum of 30 people per room, most restaurants aren't helped at all, because the little Italian on the corner really doesn't need that extension, because he can't get rid of one extra table in his business because of that one-and-a-half meter measure. So, cabinet, go with the catering industry and all the other sectors that are getting in the way of that one-and-a-half-meter measure. Search with them for solutions for indoor spaces. Whether it's about ventilation or filters or screens or other smart things, make sure they're coronaproof so they don't go bankrupt, because that's what's threatening to happen right now. Again, that's disproportionate. Mr. Chairman. Can the Prime Minister also explain why this one-and-a-half-meter measure does not necessarily have to be applied in aircraft, but in restaurants or cinemas, for example? Why does KLM get your blessing not to apply the 1.5 meter if it can't, but does the average entrepreneur, for example in the catering industry, get €4,000 fine if they apply those rules more flexibly? Why can't you ride to the terrace with four friends in the car, but can't you sit down together at the table? Isn't that really no one to explain? That's one-and-a-half-metre terror. Mr. Chairman. What is also inexplicable is that terrible totalitarian corona law which restricts the rights of the Dutch people and seeks to lay down the Prime Minister's one-and-a-half-metre dictatorship in the law. Don't, I'll tell the Prime Minister. Get in the trash with that bill. Mr. Chairman. The resistance in the Netherlands against such a law was also shown by the fact that a lot of people wanted to demonstrate against it on the Malieveld. I believe 10,000 people were planning to come. But, as we all know, that demonstration was forbidden. If you want to protest against racism or want to kick Black Pete on his face, if you don't like all the rules, if you talk racism to everyone, you'll have plenty of room to demonstrate. You'll be invited by the Prime Minister. You'll get a grant. And then you're on all those bad talk shows in public service. But if you stand up for your freedom, if you turn against Rutte's one-and-a-half-metre terror, then the demonstration is strictly forbidden and you are trained from all sides. That's double standards. I ask the Prime Minister to ensure that not only those who agree with him, but also those who oppose his policy are given the opportunity to demonstrate. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, why don't you work for that? For our freedom of speech instead of having tea parties with black haters all day long. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Corona is a fake virus. As Minister De Jonge said, we may be done with the virus, but the virus is not finished with us yet. We must aim to avoid a second lockdown in order to reduce economic, social and social damage. The Prime Minister has put it nicely: by keeping distance, we give space to each other. To maintain support, rules must be clear. So is it true that if you meet airplane conditions, you can organize that on the ground, too? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. As far as ventilation is concerned, we're confused. The Minister promised me that he would come back to this on 4 June, because I asked for concrete handles, including for citizens. The Minister writes today on the one hand that it is important to ventilate properly and that you should be careful in nursing homes with the location of fans, but on the other hand that the current building decision is satisfactory. Mr Van Dissel says this morning in the technical briefing that there will be a separate opinion on ventilation. What is the state of play now? I ask this all the more so as the European RIVM, the ECDC, advises: do not organise a meeting until you have a good ventilation. Mr. Chairman. Against that background, I also have a question about MBOs. They are for the most part much younger than 18 years, but must now comply with the 18-plus rules. That doesn't make any sense. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The crisis hits the most vulnerable people hardest. It is a good thing that, on the basis of my motion, the Minister will take concrete measures and hopefully provide clarity for people with disabilities and chronically ill. I hear, for example, that one carrier demands that a child with a disability wears a mask when that is not really possible and the other is not and that one carrier is willing to bring a scooter and the other one is not. Can we have a response on paper later and a feedback from these talks? The discussion that will be dealt with in the ink black scenario at ic-beds has flared up again. For the CDA, age should never be the only determining criterion. We have received an explanation from the KNMG this week. I was gonna give that to you one more time. Everything must be aimed at preventing a second wave. The dashboard and the source and contact research are essential for this. However, we read that only 28% of the infected people are willing to be tested and that is dangerously low. What is the Minister going to do to increase this percentage? There are now only 80 test sites, but we have over 350 municipalities. That means people have to travel far to get to a location. We get e-mails from people that sometimes they have to wait days for a rash. What will the Minister do for better accessibility and better response time? What about the further development of the coranadashboard? What is the planning for enlargement? Many indicators have not yet been filled in and it is important that everything is ready before the r arrives in the month. Mr. Chairman. The regular care is almost completely scaled off at the first wave. We are now looking at the lessons learned and we hope that the Jetten/Heerma motion will be included. Finally, Mr President. Today came the message about the well-deserved bonus for the caregivers in the front line. But also apart from corona, caregivers deserve a modern salary building, less administrative burden and more control over working hours. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with employers and trade unions? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On Tuesday, Mrs Van den Berg was the only one of the coalition parties present in the action of caregivers here behind the Chamber, for which I congratulate you. But the CDA, of course, eventually also voted against the motion, against more structural appreciation for caregivers. Mrs Van den Berg posted a video on the Internet in which she said: "That is not up to the House of Representatives. This is for employers and trade unions." My question to Mrs Van den Berg is whether she is aware that the government has something to say about the so-called oval space in care, the space available for the development of working conditions and, therefore, for any increase in pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u86	Yes, but I think you should speak first as employers and trade unions, which is why I would like to call on the Minister to encourage that discussion. I just mentioned a few, like a completely obsolete job and salary building. I've been talking to carers who say that it's actually been the same thing for 20 years, that it should have been changed a long time ago. In addition, there are high administrative burdens. Whoever I speak to in the care, whether it is a physiotherapist, a doctor or nurse, almost 40% of the time is in administration. There is also the progress in the care. We discussed in the consultation on the labour market in care that 45% of the new influx has left within the last two years. As far as I am concerned, there are real bottlenecks that need to be resolved in the sector, especially those administrative burdens. Because if we are going to do something about that, I have already made it very clear in previous debates that they will be resolved and that we will give all our support to it as a Chamber of Commerce and Industry, there will be a lot more money to pay for this healthcare provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u87	That is a bad thing, because the CDA is actually saying here: solve it in the sector and we hope that there will be less red tape. Then there should be money left to raise those salaries. While Mrs Van den Berg, of course, knows as well as I do that we have been talking about this for years and that it is not possible. It would be fantastic if you could give that money to the workplace, please, but it won't happen. What Mrs van den Berg also knows is that the room available for better salaries is going down considerably next year. This will mean that the salaries in the care sector will not increase any further, which I believe we all want to do at least in terms of word "b" but will increase much less. Maybe even the zero line will come into sight. In other words, if the CDA doesn't want to do anything right now, doesn't want to intervene and look away, then that promise and statement from the CDA that it thinks that those salaries should be raised is just not worth anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u88	That is all the more reason to finally tackle these administrative burdens. The only way to do that is if the healthcare institutions, like the hospitals, work together. Almost two years ago, I had talks with Minister Bruins about this, because working visits, for example, said that they were not allowed to negotiate or make agreements with ICT people, because then the ACM would come along. Minister Bruins reiterated in the budget debate on the budget for 2019 that he is committed to doing so. Those are things that we, as CDA, would like to give our full support to, so that much more can be done in cooperation without getting into trouble with the ACM and others and so that we stop filling out all kinds of lists instead of just looking at what really needs to be registered for good accountability. As far as we are concerned, this can go from 40% to 20%. Then there's a lot of space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have often expressed my appreciation here, as have many colleagues, for all the care workers and supporters who worked day and night when this crisis held our country in its grip and the care was under enormous pressure. That rating is now converted into a bonus of €1,000 net. My appeal to the cabinet is: as fast and simple as possible and net €1,000 must also be real net €1,000. Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of uncertainty and disappointment lately. Why the plane full but not the coach? Why the massage parlors open but not the sex work business? This inexplicable distinction is now largely out of place with the relaxations announced yesterday. If all seats in public transport can be occupied again, even by people who are not on the road, why should not all seats be used in a theatre or cinema room? Please explain. This summer there can be much more thanks to the relaxations, but not by far everything. Companies and sectors which, despite the new relaxations, still do not have enough room to survive should be able to count on additional support for D66 in the coming period. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Mr. Chairman. Despite the ever better reports of the RIVM, we must remain vigilant and prepared, even on the worst scenario, if the Triage Roadmap is to be taken up, the roadmap that everyone hopes will never have to be used. But we saw in March, April and May that the situation on the ice can be very worrying. That's why it's a good thing there's such a playbook now. Healthcare professionals need this hold and back support if this black scenario is to occur. The schematic must therefore be really applicable to doctors. Medical specialists, ethicists, nurses, professors and many civil society organisations, such as the elderly and patients' organisations, are involved in this process. Then I find it very remarkable that certain parts are immediately wiped off the table, while the consultation is still ongoing. This applies specifically to the considerations relating to age cohorts. Why did Minister Van Rijn take this one point out of this very carefully and carefully considered roadmap and shoot it right off? Does he still support that view and does the cabinet agree with me that this is a medical-ethical matter? Mr. Chairman. The tests are now much better than they were a few months ago. Compliments for the G.D.D.'s, too. Quick tracking of infections is important in order to be able to take targeted measures. An app can help with that. That app is almost ready and will be tested by 1,000 people in Twente from this week on, we learn today. However, I call on the Minister to remain careful, for example about the uncertainties, risks and privacy concerns that still exist, including with a number of telecom companies. That is why I would not want a mandatory app. I ask the Minister, in response to the letter, what will be the role of the Tax Administration in this app and whether the app remains under the direction of the Ministry of Health. Finally, the Corona Act. There has been a great deal of unrest and resistance, including within my group. For example, on the long validity of the law and the possibility of enforcement behind the front door. But a law is better than all the emergency bonds we know now. These emergency arrangements and regulations also restrict our fundamental rights, but with a poor legal basis and a lack of democratic legitimacy and control. It is therefore wise for the cabinet to work on a good law in case a second wave comes and new restrictions are needed to contain the virus. But the cabinet has a job to do. Explain why that law is needed, especially with the now announced relaxations. Make getting support for the law a priority and make sure it is as limited as possible. Mr Van der Staaij and I have repeatedly called for the measures we are taking to be proportionate in previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. I see Mr Asscher and Mr Wilders. First of all, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u92	I fully agree with Mr Jetten that it is nice that there is now a bonus for the hardworking people in the care. But more is needed, and we know it. Work pressure's high. People can't stand it anymore. We need more people in care. Salaries will have to be improved. There is a need for a structurally better appreciation. Does D66 agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u93	I agree. There is a need for a structurally better appreciation, not just in the care sector, but in the public sector. I think that was one of the lessons that we learned from all sides during this corona crisis. Next summer, the cabinet will face the very difficult task of making a new budget in times of severe economic crisis. We all want to ensure that savings are not made. We all want to avoid an increase in the burden on citizens. In doing so, we all want to shape the re-evaluation of the public sector in a good way. I also agree with previous speakers who ask the Minister to engage with employers and trade unions. The SER has published the report "Care for the future" on the far too high workload and the undervalue that many employees experience in the care, the outdated job home that Mrs Van den Berg referred to as well as the too low salary for some of the functions within the care. This is a responsibility of employers and trade unions, but I would very much like the Minister to ask: can it help you to resolve these bottlenecks and, in the extreme case, can I help the government to achieve better agreements between employers and employees? I think it was Mr Azarkan who just spoke with Mr Veldman in an interrupting debate about a tip. With all due respect, Mr. Azarkan can call €1,000 a tip, but for a lot of people €1,000 is a fantastic bonus to get. That bonus is more than justified, because of the hard work of all those cleaners, nurses and paramedics. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Van Kooten-Ariës, who tabled a motion here a few months ago which the whole Chamber supported in order to achieve that bonus of €1,000. I'm glad that bonus will finally come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr Jetten agrees with me that better pay and better appreciation, structuralally, are needed for the people in care, because of the workload and the future of care. D66, however, has three times prevented the motion by Mrs Marijnissen and myself, who are calling for it, from achieving it. That has led to enormous disappointment. I can now hear Mr Jetten say quite clearly: let us instruct the cabinet to make a plan for better appreciation, better salaries and lower workload. I hear Mr Jetten is not hiding behind the excuse that we are not talking about it, because we are, of course, doing so here. We determine the frameworks and the space with each other, and that is how it can happen. Will Mr Jetten vote today for a motion to instruct the cabinet to do exactly what he has just said in the budget this summer: increase appreciation, improve pay and lower workload?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u95	I am thinking, together with a number of colleagues, of tabling a motion which calls precisely for me to ask the Minister to see if he can help employers and employees in the discussions on collective agreements in the healthcare sector. I myself have spoken to people in the healthcare sector over the last few days who thought that if the Marijnissen/Asscher motion were to be adopted in the Chamber, salaries in the care sector would rise tomorrow. The fair story is, you didn't make any money on that motion either. It was an empty call. I understand this call for better appreciation, but it was not a call that also included the money immediately. That is why I agree with previous speakers who ask the Minister: appeal to employers and employees to their responsibility to achieve better collective agreements. And if that fails, because there is insufficient financial space, then the cabinet can come to the table to see if it can be helped. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u96	This is a little fuzzy, isn't it? If cover has to be provided, that's not a problem. Mr Jetten knows that too. But it was Wopke Hoekstra who said "we have deep pockets; we have deep pockets, precisely because of this crisis, because of what is happening to us now." The counter is at 100 billion euros, and counting. So the argument was, I thought, not: can we find money for it? Of course we can, because we think it's important. It is a political priority and we pronounce it as a Chamber in the direction of the cabinet. It's kind of lame to say, well, we're against it, but we're coming up with our own motion to ask the minister if they're gonna talk. No, the ruling of the Chamber should be: come up with a plan, with employers and employees, for more appreciation, better salaries and a lower workload. You come up with the story that we're not about that and that we shouldn't be doing that as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u97	I didn't say that either. Mr Asscher should not put words in my mouth that he repeats from previous debates on the interruption. I think I have now given a very clear answer to his question a few times. I am in favour of a better appreciation of everyone in the public sector, including in the care sector. First of all, I appeal to employers and employees for their responsibility. If the cabinet can help to achieve better agreements, that is an appeal to the minister I very much support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u98	But why do you vote against a motion that the cabinet has ordered to do so over and over again? Mr Jetten did not make that clear to me. He's in favour, he speaks fine words about it, he thinks it's important, but he votes against it. It's all about applause. It's not just anything. The Chamber can make that statement, and then the cabinet has to move on. Does Mr Jetten know about the 2009 Pechtold motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u99	I think Mr Pechtold has also tabled many motions in this House, so I do not know this particular motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u100	That is a motion by Mr Pechtold which states that teachers' salaries must be increased, and that it is of course for employers and employees, but that he is calling on the cabinet to make a plan for better working conditions, and to add, if necessary, a budget so that it is not at the expense of the schools. Does Mr Jetten recognize the parallel, the mission? There is a social problem, people earn a better salary, the Chamber makes a ruling and D66 votes against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u101	We can spend an hour here dimming about the wording of that motion and whether or not there was coverage. In my opinion, the conclusion is that this is Chamberwide experience that care workers should be better appreciated. We are doing this in the first place with a health bonus of as much as €1,000, thanks to a motion by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, to give all those people who have worked hard in this corona crisis an extra amount. In addition, in the longer term, we simply want a better appreciation for the care workers. Then it's not just about salaries, it's also about the modern office house, about more work experience and more job evaluation. That's the call I'm making to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u102	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u103	This isn't dimmies and it's not faint. Indeed, it takes an hour to say: I am in favour, but I am voting against it. This is just not believable from D66. We have seen in a letter from one of the ministers of this cabinet: care workers cannot live on applause alone. What do they get in this room when D66 has to vote? Let's hear it. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u104	No, the motion didn't arrange anything. There was no money; it was a dead sparrow and free beer. I want to be able to look into care workers' eyes and say: I also want you to be better appreciated, but that needs to be taken care of at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u105	This is really going to be your last remark on this point, because I can see that there are many repeats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u106	Yeah, but we're also magnifying a difference that's actually not there. We want the same thing. Only the route to it might be different. But the end goal is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u107	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u108	A dead sparrow and free beer: that's that applause from you and Mrs Kaag. That's a dead sparrow and free beer. I can give you three cover here on the spot, which you agree with. We can reverse the reductions in the top rate of the highest tax discs, which is worth 500 million. We can reverse the tax reduction for next year, which is 2 billion. It's not that hard. It's about political will. I would remind you once again that it was Hoekstra who said on behalf of the cabinet: we have deep pockets. Are those bags just deep for the KLM? Are those bags just deep for the companies? Do we support that for them, and not for the care workers? Now that's free beer, that's a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u109	No, I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u110	There's money, you think it's important and then you vote against it. I haven't answered my question yet. What does Mr Jetten think of his own applause?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u111	Like many others, I have always said that it cannot just be applause. It can't just be with beautiful pictures on social media. In the end, we will all have to act together. That is why I am pleased that we are hearing today that this Van Kooten-Arissen motion with a bonus of €1,000 will also be put into practice. Ultimately, we will also have to fill in the revaluation of the public sector with better salary conditions. This must be done not only in healthcare but also in other public sectors. I'm sorry, but we're not gonna settle that with unauthorized motions. We will deal with this by making good budgetary arrangements with each other and by asking the Minister: if the employers and the workers in the care do not come out, make sure you look as a cabinet where you can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u112	I think this was rehearsed by Mr Jetten. He thought, "If I hear the word "tip," I'm gonna go hard on it." That's why he was looking for a reason to say this. I said this in relation to the fact that he is willing to abolish 2 billion profits tax and to give multinationals a lot of money. I compare this with people who have worked themselves in the last three months, who have been called 'vital', who have barely received purchasing power over the past eight years and who are now receiving applause. I saw Mrs Kaag do it fantastic; she can. And then they get €333 per month for those three months. That's not structural. I think that's really acidic. The VVD said: we are for a better salary and for better appreciation. But it just doesn't happen! So my question to Mr Jetten is: why isn't this just happening? Why is this being pushed forward every time? When does the moment come when you say: yes, we not only think it vital if they play an important role in society, but we think it is vital every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u113	With all due respect, I am going to repeat my reply to Mr Asscher completely again. First of all, I welcome Mr Azarkan's nuance of this tip. I now understand the context in which he meant that remark, but I still think that for three months there is a very fair and proper appreciation of all the work done by those people in those months, when the care was so under pressure. The SER report "Care for the future" shows very well where workers in the care sector are facing problems. It's about salary, job home, workload and appreciation. There is room for improvement on all these points. We're not gonna get that done in a few months. That's gonna take a long time. It also calls for good agreements between employers and employees. If the Cabinet can help with that, we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u114	Maybe I didn't get it right, but did I hear Mr Jetten now argue for an age limit in the ic-plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u115	No, I think Chamberwide has been said that there can be no pure and only selection by age when people need acute care and ic-care. My criticism of Minister Van Rijn is that we then asked medical specialists, ethicists, patient organisations and elderly organisations to jointly draw up a very careful protocol in case this black scenario ever occurs. I really hope that we will never have to apply this protocol and playbook, because it is, of course, one of the most terrible and difficult choices a doctor will ever face. But when I look at what has now been conceived by all these parties, there is not a pure age limit in which only age-based selection is made. I believe that there is a rather well-considered age cohort in this, with all kinds of other factors also playing a role. It is precisely because of the very quick reaction of the Minister that this discussion has been flattened again to whether or not there is a hard age choice. I think that is wrong, if you know that all these organisations are still in the process of consulting their supporters in order to reach that final protocol. So that's why I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u116	Do you not think that Mr Van Rijn is simply stating what was adopted here in the Chamber? Isn't it a very logical step on the part of this minister that he's handing this along?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u117	No. That's why I just asked the cabinet that question. The letter was only signed by Minister Van Rijn. I think this is a medical-ethical consideration that is far wider than the portfolio of Minister Van Rijn alone. It is precisely in these sensitive issues with medical-ethical choices that I expect the cabinet to outline the whole dilemma. I think that the Minister went too short by lifting one aspect out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you. Mr. Wilders. I forgot. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr Jetten has, I think, rightly pointed out that he also sees problems with the corona law. He also said the app should be voluntary. The cabinet has submitted a third proposal and that is the Temporary Information Act RIVM. I don't know if you know the law. That is a law, which requires telecom providers, mobile telecom network providers, to give information to RIVM. May I ask what you think of this, in the context of your statement that if data is shared, this happens voluntarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u120	The volunteer at the app is about whether or not to download it and that you do not want to be required to do so. In the bill that Mr Wilders cites, that is a lot more difficult. Indeed, telecom providers are simply asked to provide bulk data, so that RIVM can analyse it. To be honest, that question just doesn't go far enough. My group is also critical of this law, because I want to make sure that it is really only anonymized data provided for the analyses. I also want to know where they are stored, what is done with them, when they are destroyed again, you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u121	If only that were true, because in the explanatory memorandum of that law, which has already been filed and is here in this house, it says that there are studies that the cabinet itself says "that there is a theoretical possibility to trace the location data back to identifiable, natural persons." The cabinet says they don't expect that to happen, but they can. The cabinet itself states in that law that there is a possibility that providers and companies with telecom information under that law are obliged to share data with the RIVM and that there is a possibility that they can be traced back to your phone, to where you are and to your name. That's way out of line, isn't it? A party that says that an app should always be voluntary, can't let itself be squeaky, I'm not saying that you do, hear from a cabinet proposal where you can just trace where you are and what your name is and where you're going? That's totally unacceptable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u122	It seems to me that Mr Wilders is asking very legitimate questions about that law. I do not want to compare you too much, but it seems as if I hear my colleague Kees Verhoeven talking here. I can imagine that these are also the questions that we will be asking in the course of the legal process. I'll double-check it and maybe I'll come back on this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u123	I'm gonna leave it in the middle for a minute if it was a compliment or an insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u124	For who?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u125	For him, too, but all the crazy on a stick. Of course, that debate still needs to be held here, which the spokesmen will do with delay. Surely you agree with me that, if you are consistent with your opposition to a mandatory app, you should say the following with the PVV? If there is any possibility that that law can trace back where people are, something they have nothing to say about, that law is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u126	I am not going to make a final assessment of the legislative proposal here, because I personally do not know it sufficiently. I understand very well the questions that Mr Wilders himself put. So we will certainly come back to that at a later date. I do understand, however, that it is a quest to support that testing and tracing in the best possible way and that the Minister is simply looking for it. It can be done via the telecom data or via the app, but the conditions that we have previously exchanged with each other do indeed apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u127	This is the last debate we have before the summer on the corona crisis. In the meantime, we are also at a stage in which we can relax. When the Animal Party started at a very early stage about the risk of this kind of pandemics, and that we should do everything we can to prevent them, everyone thought it was a little premature. D66 thought so, too. So now we're going to the summer. In the meantime, we have asked questions to the Minister of LNV and the Minister for Foreign Trade, the new leader of the D66 Party. From the answer, let me say carefully that we should not have it from these rulers. So is D66 willing to do this as homework for the Cabinet? They might get to rest or go to the carnival if they like this. This summer is also really the time to make an approach to really reduce the risk of this kind of pandemics and the role that the Netherlands can play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u128	One of the most important lessons we need to learn from this corona crisis is how we deal with the trade in exotic animals. How do we deal with a lot of animals packed close together in stables? How do we deal with the slaughterhouses, which Mrs Ouwehand has asked questions about? Now it's corona, next time it's another animal disease that jumps over man. We have learned too little from this in the past, and I hope that we will do so in this corona crisis. In any case, you will see proposals from my party in the near future to further restrict the trade in exotic animals, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u129	I'm glad to hear that. I note, however, that the Foreign Trade portfolio is not mentioned, while the United Nations really warns that the loss of nature is one of the largest importers of palm oil and of soya for animal feed. The Foreign Trade Minister of D66 is responsible for this. So can we also count on the group to encourage the cabinet to take action to reduce these risks in this area too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u130	Yeah, sure. The cabinet has a role to play there as well. When it comes to trade, I was also very pleased recently with the initiative of the Netherlands and France to establish new standards for international trade agreements in Europe, with much more attention being paid to nature, the environment and climate. That seems to be an important step. I just mentioned exotic animals and I think the word "exotic" also says that there is a trade component, so I certainly see opportunities there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u131	I hear Mr Jetten saying that it should not just be applause and that it should ultimately be that structural appreciation of caregivers. That's good, 'cause it's gotta be there. At the same time, Mr Jetten also says: I would appreciate it if employers and employees first looked at how far they could get and if they could not, the cabinet would have to intervene. I think that the room on the collective bargaining tables referred to by Mr Jetten will go down in the next year if we do nothing. Mr Jetten also knows that if we do not intervene, if we do nothing, the increase in wages for care will simply not happen. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u132	I would particularly like to focus on a number of specific professions. You and I agree that nurses are really more eligible for an improvement in the salary position than the medical specialists. I understand that it is an unsatisfactory answer for you now, but I would like to do so in the right order. Let employers and employees talk to each other about collective agreements and if they don't figure out how to get the minister to work to see if the government can help solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u133	It's not so much annoying for me to hear. It is especially annoying for those almost 1 million people who work in care to hear. There was a lot of praise for their work, we've seen all those videos on social media and we've all clapped along. Especially for them it is very nice to hear, because we already know that this structural improvement cannot be arranged there, because space is not there. And then we'll go over it. That is why I am once again asking Mr Jetten the question. If he really finds it and he says it, I'm glad to hear it... that it shouldn't just be applause, shouldn't he understand that we have to do something now? Even if it's just because four out of ten carers in a survey say, "we're considering quitting, we're feeling abandoned, we might be doing something quite different than that job in care," while thousands of extra people are needed. We can't afford that. Surely Mr Jetten cannot say that it should not be just applause and then do nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u134	Fortunately, it is not just applause either, because we have heard today that there will be €1,000 bonus for all those who have worked so hard during the corona crisis. In any case, it is important to express appreciation for the enormous amount of overtime these people have worked in those few months. I just said "net must be net," so surcharges and such should not be affected by that €1,000 bonus. But that's for this year. In the long term, if you want to ensure that people in care feel appreciated, want to continue to work and work there with pleasure, and if you want to make sure that other people with conviction choose a wonderful profession in care, you will also have to do something structural about the job pleasure, the workload and also the salary position, especially of the nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u135	Quite specifically, if we look at space next year, the government's contribution is falling by 2% compared to last year. We see a huge increase in pension contributions. In other words, there is a threat of a zero line in the care system. We're talking about more pay. You say there's an order in there. I understand, but I don't agree. Do you wish to state here that there can never be a zero line in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u136	Then I come back to the same answer, namely that I believe that care, like other public sectors, needs to be re-evaluated, and that especially in specific professions, there is a need to improve the salary position. I cannot comment on what that does with the general standard of care. That is a very boring answer, but that is the honest answer to the difficult phase we are facing. As I said just now in reply to Mr Asscher, this cabinet is going to have to make a very difficult budget this summer. We all want to avoid cuts and burdens for citizens, and we also have specific wishes to help people who have been undervalued in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u137	For you to say that you want to specifically see who is the most advanced in the healthcare sector, that we should not take one big hit, I would like to follow you in that. But I have another point, namely the space that is going to be available, and that is an automatism. It's a little technical. As wages in the market fall, for example in banks or other market sectors, wage increases in care also fall. This means that the government's contribution to these wages will be reduced. That's what's threatening the zero line. So that's not about wage increases. This is about ensuring that we avoid that zero line. And that is what I am asking Mr Jetten for. Does he agree with me that we should avoid having that zero line next year? Does he at least want to make that statement here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u138	Then I agree with one of Mr Veldman's answers. The employers in the care sector prefer that we should now answer that question in the Chamber, that we should help them in this way. No, they need to get to work now to get to good negotiations. If there are bottlenecks there, and the space you describe is one of those bottlenecks, the Minister comes into the picture. There is one thing I do want and what GroenLinks doesn't want, as their amendment shows, and that'szzp'ers in the care that appreciates. With your proposals, you excludezzp'ers from care. And there are a lot of people in care who, often forced, have become more self-sufficient to earn a living there. Your amendment excludes them from the revaluation that we all very much want to see in this Chamber. I would prefer the Minister with employers and employees to see how we can help everyone in the care sector and not exclude them in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u140	Mr President, thank you. €1,000 for the people in care, as a bonus. That's a wonderful amount. Compliments for that! I'm glad there is. But it's a lousy arrangement. When you read the letter, you really don't understand that the cabinet is going to do this this way. In fact, it says: we call on employers, hospitals and nursing homes to see who has the most right to that bonus in the organisation. Now you need to go to those hospitals and see who did extra work during this covid crisis and who didn't. Then it is said: if someone worked in a department that was temporarily shut down or... Guys, this puts so much pressure on solidarity in care. Let's be honest. Everyone in that care sector has done an inhumane job. That goes for the people at the bed, the nurses, the nurses, but it's also about the cleaners, about the people in the administrative departments. That is why I believe that the scope of this bonus should be wider, so that everyone is eligible for it. I do not think we can ask hospitals or nursing homes: choose who has earned this most. Imagine what this is going to do to those teams that have gone through this crisis shoulder to shoulder! That is why I believe that the scope should be widened and that more money is needed. Mr. Chairman. And then there's the Corona Act. Let me be perfectly clear. My group will never vote for a law that is comprehensive. We must be careful not to legislate on a temporary situation, which is laid down in emergency regulations, and to give this cabinet the full scope to decide for itself. No, far-reaching decisions will always have to be passed by parliament. In that context, I have another question for the cabinet. The one-and-a-half-metre society that we often talk about, I support it, in the sense that the best available knowledge is that you have to keep 1.5 meters apart. I understand that we keep calling for that. But the question we should be asking is whether this belongs in criminal law. Should we make it a criminal offence if you walk down the street with your parents or friends and you're too close? Do you have to get a ticket for that? Given the stage we're in, I think we should get rid of that, because this is not a normal situation. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Then there is the situation in the slaughterhouses. Mrs Ouwehand has often talked about it here, and we all have. Motions have been passed. It's unbelievable what's happening. I'm holding my heart. The cabinet is tough when it comes to the 1.5 metres, I must agree with Mr Wilders, on the terraces and on what happens outside. I'm in favour of that, but it's only right if you ask: what exactly are the risks? Yet we hold on to that. That's what I'm here for. But then you let this situation arise in the slaughterhouses... When we look around the world at where the new outbreaks are, we see that it is in slaughterhouses. That is why I want the government's promise that everyone in slaughterhouses will be tested within a week. It's been asked before. It is unacceptable that this situation should continue. Mr President, in conclusion. I started with the bonus. It's a good thing there's finally money coming. But ultimately, it's about structural valuation. Much has already been said about it, but there is also a threat of a zero line next year. The whole story of first the employers or first the employees: it's en-and. Employers and employees need to talk to each other very quickly and employers need to know, including all of us, that they have to deliver. We're gonna need more money. The government, including this cabinet, this minister, will also have to pay for it. He has to make that clear today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Lilian, can I tell you something?" That was behind the hall last Tuesday. Outside, caregivers had come together to underline again how important it was not only to stay with the applause, but that there would be real structural appreciation. The action was just finished, we were having a chat, when one of the caregivers came to me and said: can I say something? Of course you can say something. She told me: I just got a message on my phone; during the action one of our colleagues died. A colleague who didn't work in a covid department, but had been in contact with someone who hadn't reported any complaints. She'd gotten sick herself, ended up on the ICU, and she died. The health care provider said: during this action I was told. She said it felt so unreal. There were all colleagues with signs saying that it should not be left to the applause alone. She said: "It feels so incredibly unreal that we have to stand here and plead for decent reward for our work, while for us this is simply the reality of everyday life. That can't be true, can it?" She was right, of course. It can't be true! Still, it happened last week. However, last week half of this Chamber blocked the fact that caregivers received a better structural appreciation. I wanted to say "majority" first, but that's not even true. It was half, but that was enough. Last week it has also become clear that, if you have spent all that extra overtime and have turned in weekends and free days, your fees may be taken away. The cabinet says: we find that very annoying, but there is nothing we can do about it. That's a little technical. Whatever happened is that we found out that the space available for higher wages next year is going down and not up, as we all want in word here. It can't be. We will continue to come forward with proposals for a structurally better appreciation. We have an action day planned on September 5th, because our caregivers deserve better. We can't afford it either. It can't be that four out of ten caregivers are now considering getting out of care. We really need these people. In fact, we need thousands and thousands of extra colleagues in care. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask the Cabinet about testing. We've talked a lot about it here. A while ago there was a broadcast of Nieuwsuur, in which people working in the laboratory spoke. They said they had a lot more test capacity than they were asked to. We have also asked here many times and then Minister De Jonge said: we are doing what we can. The people from the labs, and also from the nursing homes, said: there was nothing we could do at all; we could do much more, but it didn't happen. They even said, "This would have mattered to kill." I would very much like a response from the Minister. Then there's the strategy. We have also talked about this very often here. The letter that came last night contained something which at least gave me a positive opinion because we have often asked for it: an explanation of the so-called "maximum control" as a term for the strategy. The OMT defines that as the maximum containment of the virus, with the aim of going back to almost zero new infections. Is that right? The OMT states that, but the cabinet takes over in the letter. Can we therefore conclude that that is the definition used by the cabinet for'maximum control'? I think that's important. Finally, Mr President. A number of prominent athletes and trainers made a call last week to move more. The corona crisis has taught us a lot and shown us a lot. Similarly, the importance of a healthy, sporty and vital society is enormous and we therefore need to move more. Among others Louis van Gaal, Joop Alberda, Epke Zonderland and others make that call. We would like to call on the Cabinet to support that call. As SP, at least we do. We would ask the Cabinet to come up with a plan to make more movement possible for more people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u143	Thank you. Mr Asscher has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mr. Chairman. The crisis phase is over. Oh, that's so nice! You can go back to anything. However, it is also our job to think about how we get out of the crisis that comes from behind it, the crisis that people feel every day, because they are recovering, because they are still sick, because they have lost people, or because they have lost their livelihood from one day to the next due to the loss of income or their job. That's what we need to talk about. We need to talk about it because we're not there yet. Everyone's talking about the fall, about how it's going to go on. That is why I am pleased that the Chamber has adopted our proposal to ask for an independent opinion on how it has gone and how it can be improved. I think there is also every reason why Mrs Marijnissen pointed out that when you see what happened in the nursing homes, where people were locked up, where they were deprived of their loved ones, where they saw their freedom restricted and where still incredibly many people died. That's what we need to learn from. Also when you see how it went with the test capacity, about which we have talked a lot here: there was no test and therefore there was limited testing. Now we hear other stories. That's what we need to learn from. I welcome the issues raised by Minister De Jonge that he intends to look at. I would ask him to tell the Chamber that these opinions will also end up in the Chamber unfiltered. I ask him to inform us of whom he is going to ask for these opinions. I ask him to inform the Chamber about the design of the consultative question so that we can learn, in the interests of our health, but also of our economy. We don't want to have to go through any more restrictions to fight the virus. It is precisely to prevent that that source and contact research is so essential. We heard the head of the G.D.D. this morning saying that he runs into the problem that it's hard to get people, because they're callers and he doesn't always know if there's work. I ask the Cabinet to give better contracts in this case and to ensure that we now hire people for what is needed for our health and for our economy in the coming months, for the next six months. But for that economy, too, the message "we will have to adapt" is too little. Large parts of our economy cannot function economically at 1.5 meters, and we know that. The catering industry, Mr Wilders, spoke about this and the culture: it simply cannot be done. This also applies to a theatre, a festival or an event. The cinema in Tiel has already fallen down, but this autumn there is a huge discharge wave that is truly sinful. It will cost those wonderful companies and institutions and those great makers the head, and we must avoid that. Yesterday we understood that there could be a lot more, but that it is still with us for the time being and that is why I ask the Cabinet to make plans with these sectors. There must be plans to help them through, to support them and to ensure that we also have those healthy companies and, above all, those jobs in the world after corona. Many jobs have already been lost and this autumn there is a second wave of job losses which we must avoid. Finally, I would like to talk about how it goes on and then I have to talk about the care itself. We heard the Minister in another context in an interview and then he said: corona teaches us that it must be less market forces and more cooperation. Exactly! We can learn that lesson already and we need to apply it. This includes a better appreciation of the people in care. We all know that! We already knew this fall, before Corona, but then those proposals were just killed. But we now know that it is, and we must take action. Finally, Mr President, if I may. I also think it is an appropriate time to thank all those who have worked so hard over the last few months to get out of that crisis phase. I would also like to thank the members of the cabinet for that. They've worked terribly hard. The mistakes will be discussed, but they have done all that work on behalf of all of us. I am sure you do not mind that I would like to thank the Minister for Medical Care in particular, because this could be his last debate. In an unusual way, he had the courage to step forward at an unusual time, like a lot of workers in care, not because it was convenient, not because it fit in with the planning, but because it was necessary. Thank you very much for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u145	Mr Azarkan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u146	We have seen how Mr Asscher, together with Mr Marijnissen and even more widely, has worked in recent weeks to pay more wages in health care, because these people have achieved a great achievement. Now Mr. Asscher has been Minister of Social Affairs, 2012 to 2017. How much did he give the care staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u147	I can tell you: at the time, attempts were made, I will not say by whom, in order to get rid of the OVA agreement, the rules governing the remuneration of care, and to put care on the line. You couldn't do that then, and I'm sure I won't tell you a big secret if I tell you I'm happy about that. We are now at another stage and I think we agree that more money is needed for the future of care. That zero line did not come, fiercely advocated by some, not to mention persons and parties, and now something else has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u148	During that period, wages rose by 8.4%, but inflation by 8.3%. So, on balance, the care workers had a 0.1% increase in purchasing power over five years. That's a real crumb, and I'm sorry about that. Of course, 2012 and 2013 were the result of the crisis, which was aggravated by the previous cabinet, and the economists agree on that. But 2015, 2016, 2017 there was a little more room. It was choices not to do that, and I find that in stark contrast to each other. I appreciate Mr Asscher and the fact that he is fighting hard, especially when he is in opposition. But it's such a shame that, if he's sitting in the place where he can really influence it, he's still doing a little right-wing policy. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u149	What I've learned in the years that I've been walking around here so many aren't there yet, but it's been quite turbulent years, especially when something nice is said, which appreciates getting together for the people in the care. So I've heard. I am happy to do so with others, including Mr Azarkan. And sure, things could have been better when I was in trade-K, I think I'm pretty equestrian and sporty about that. At the time, care salaries were better off than, for example, salaries in education. I'm making myself tough for that, too. I think that's important. I think it's important to fight in politics for your ideals. One day, it's gonna work out better than the other. Sometimes it almost works. I think this is also a matter of perseverance. I heard Mr Jetten say that he agreed, but perhaps another motion would be tabled. I heard Mr Veldman say 'I don't really see any bottlenecks'. Well, then we all have a clean task here to show those bottlenecks and make sure that it happens in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u150	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Only together can we control Corona. With this slogan of the cabinet we stood together in the beginning, shoulder to shoulder, in the fight against this virus. Lately, we've seen the support for the corona measures decrease. Especially now that things are going so well, people find it difficult to comply with this one-and-a-half-meter measure because they do not see the need for it. Meanwhile, the Cabinet is working on a temporary law. It is wise that the date of introduction of 1 July was released. With the consultation version and the concerns that arise about it in mind, my group would encourage the cabinet to proceed carefully and not hastily. Can the Minister explain once again what the need for this law is? Mr. Chairman. Let me put it straight: the one-and-a-half meter standard should never become the new normal, but will remain in force in the coming period. How does the Prime Minister intend to maintain the support for this measure? The relaxations offer a lot of extra space from next Wednesday, but that is also exciting. We therefore need to keep our finger on the pulse. Can we put the reins back on soon if we need to? And is the cabinet prepared to take firm measures at regional level if necessary to stop the virus, if it turns out that there are regions where it does turn up again? Mr. Chairman. Caregivers deserve appreciation for their hard work on the front line, so it's good that the cabinet now comes up with a bonus. In addition, wages in the care sector will increase by 7% to 8% over the next two years, but we also need to see if there is no need for them anymore, especially because we need the people in the care sector so badly. Is the Cabinet prepared to take this glove together with health insurers, employers and employees? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of specific points. The churches are gonna be a lot easier to get together outside. Would the Minister like to see if there could be more room for so-called "pleasure"? Testing and tracing is crucial to quickly control the flares, especially now that the R is above 1. However, too few people are being tested and the GGD is not always able to identify the source of infection. What can we learn from other countries? The nursing homes have been completely open since last week and of course we want to keep them that way. For this, it is necessary that nursing homes, RIVM and GGDs cooperate regionally well in order to be able to intervene quickly to prevent further spread. Furthermore, the VWS Minister said yesterday at the press conference that there are warehouses full of mouth caps. If nursing homes are finally allowed to use preventive protective equipment, I ask him. Recently, the Christian Union has drawn much attention to the distressing situation of people in prostitution. My colleague Stieneke van der Graaf has asked many written questions about people in prostitution who were in trouble because of exploitation or debt. Despite these risks, they can go back to work. Is the Cabinet prepared to offer a tailor-made solution if people still fear for their health, combined with an exit programme and debt relief? It is good that the Netherlands invests with other countries in the development of a vaccine. Can the Minister make an effort to ensure that the vaccine will be available to everyone and that we will also show solidarity with other countries? Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to express my thanks to all doctors, ethicists, professors and many others who have worked on the triage protocol. It's an incredibly sensitive subject. I'm really glad the playbook's there. Of course, we all hope that it will never be necessary, but at least now let us give room for consultation among the profession, see if they can get away with it, and not take an advance on this politically. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr President, a brief question to the Christian Union about slaughterhouses. The RIVM said this morning in the briefing on Boxtel: I would really like to end that situation acutely. We have seen answers to questions that the Chamber has asked and in it Minister De Jonge writes: if signs of possible infections come in, then we will test. That is a weakening of what Minister De Jonge and Minister Schouten promised earlier: all employees in the meat industry are being tested. Does the Christian Union not also find it completely irresponsible to go into summer in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u154	What I can recall is that the cabinet has indeed made the statement that all the staff of slaughterhouses should be tested, that the cabinet is also in favour of this, and that my group is certainly in favour of it, but that was run against the limits of testing capacity, that is the point. If so, I think it would be wise to test as much risk-based as possible and certainly test if people are ill. I don't know if the situation has changed at the moment. If so, if there is enough capacity, I am willing to see if we can get back to the original wish and see if people can still be tested. I also see that slaughterhouses can be fireplaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u155	Fine. Thank you. Then I would also like to know how the Christian Union reacts to it. It is yet another confirmation that you really need to intervene there. If public health comes first, then you have to intervene in that slaughterhouse and say: if you do not comply with the rules and those people are all infected, then you have to close up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u156	I think that's what happened. Abattoirs have been closed in a number of places because the safety of employees has not been sufficiently safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you, Mr President. For three months now, this crisis has taken hold of us. Yesterday, the cabinet was visibly delighted that there could be facilitations, because rather radical measures have been taken. And I had to. So that's what happens when you make such a pandemic happen through the messing around of people with animals. But first, let's get back to status right now. The cabinet rightly said that what we now have to do is to prevent a second wave. I very much agree with the cabinet, especially in view of the restrictions you are still imposing on citizens. Keeping five feet away from your friends outside, that's a big deal. It is therefore not only a duty of the Cabinet to prevent the further spread of the virus, but also a moral duty to all those people who will have to do so in the coming summer. And then you already felt him coming, President-in-Office of the Council, the Animal Party doesn't understand why there wasn't a single word in the briefing yesterday about the slaughterhouses. Both Minister De Jonge and the Prime Minister said: "People, we must keep our distance. Please stick to those rules. Look at Germany. That's where things go wrong again." Yeah, look at Germany. Where does it go wrong? In the slaughterhouses. In the vicinity where that slaughterhouse is, people in the bloody hot sun line up to be tested, hoping they weren't lit in the vicinity of that slaughterhouse. Where are all the relaxations reversed? In the vicinity of those slaughterhouses. So I just don't understand. If you think you're willing to give it to people to get their freedoms back, then you can't help but intervene in those slaughterhouses. The Chamber has now had to adopt four motions. The last one was adopted this week. It says: take national direction, because it does not work to pass it on to the security regions and the GGDs. How's the cabinet gonna do that motion? And lower the slaughter rates. We have heard this again, and so we know this sector, which the President of the poultry slaughterhouses has said: we are not going to do that. The boss of the pig farms said that there is no need for that. There is a discussion this afternoon with the Minister for Agriculture and the slaughterhouses, but there can only be one message in that. The Chamber has said: lower the pace of slaughter. That is also what the trade unions are asking for, to give the people who work there a little protection. And where is the response of the US Secretary of State? Mr. Chairman. I come to the law announced by the cabinet to replace the emergency measures. Everyone agrees: you cannot continue to impose such restrictions on freedom by means of emergency regulations. But that law? Come on, just a minute! Come on! I would like to know from the Prime Minister how he is looking at the fact that the Ministry of Justice is presenting a law that fines the closeness of criminal law, in which there is no evidence of the far-reaching limitation of our fundamental rights. Fortunately, the Council of State also said: boys, you really need to do your homework again. State law lawyers also say: with this you go back to the time of Willem I, to rule by decree. That's not possible. So I'm assuming that that law will be repaired. But surely it is very worrying that such a version should be on the table at all? Isn't it? So I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. Then the app. The VWS minister says, "That app, we're gonna do it on July 15th." There's an approved motion from the Chamber, so that app doesn't come before the Chamber can decide. So if the Minister wants to go through with that, the Chamber is already saying, "No." So either it's gonna be: after the summer, if we've been able to look at it. Or it's gonna be: that app just doesn't come at all. The latter is preferred by the Party for Animals. Homework for this cabinet. The cabinet has worked very hard. I agree with the words of thanks, also towards Minister Van Rijn. Hopefully we can get some rest this summer. But of course that is not going to happen if you let the situation get out of hand in the slaughterhouses, so if I were the VWS Minister, I would take care of it today. And we have to look ahead: how do we get out of the crisis? A Millions note is being written and a number of things need to be arranged. Care needs to be paid better. The climate problem must be solved. I can do that. A new pandemic must be prevented. So we have to nest on how the Netherlands is going to play a role to prevent new pandemics. And we need to focus on prevention. The Animal Party wants to see these things back in the Millions Note. So I wish the Cabinet a good summer, but above all a lot of wisdom...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u160	...and a lot of work on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u163	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The temperature outside is getting louder today than it is inside. And that is a good thing about this subject. We heard the Health Minister yesterday say: that fight against the coronavirus can actually be compared to the fight against the water. That's a nice equation. I had to remember the adoption of the Delta Act a few years after the 1953 disaster. At that time, the President of the Chamber, Kortenhorst, gave a speech. In that he said: In the future, repetition of such a disaster must be made impossible according to human calculation. I thought that was a nice formulation. On the one hand, put everything on the ground, take responsibility to prevent it, but on the other hand, also that "to human calculation," which shows that we humans don't have everything in hand. This is how we look back at this first part of this crisis. The virus has put a big line under our vulnerability. A lot of people got sick, died. In many families, it's still fresh in memory. And also for caregivers it was a very intense period. It is also good that a bonus is given to them as an expression of great gratitude. We also believe that there is a need for a structural increase in wages and for a better position. But we also think of everyone else, in crisis teams. And we are indeed also thinking of these members of the cabinet and others, who have worked hard to achieve this. Thank you for that. And indeed, we are not there yet. But we now see that the virus has already been contained, fortunately, and we are grateful for that. Then we also say, with a familiar song, count your blessings. And we thank God for that, too. Mr. Chairman. There are considerable relaxations as of July 1st, of tight restrictions. That gives more air, like around visiting nursing homes. We are also pleased that we can come together with many more people for all kinds of meetings, including for churches; this is a subject close to our hearts. But I told you, we're not here yet. Many have said that, even here today. We need to stay alert for the virus's revival. But we are not here yet when it comes to lifting the restrictions on freedoms. Emergency regulations are still in force. The tension with the Constitution is still there. When will these emergency regulations be repealed? How are things going with the announced Corona Act? Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to that Delta Act one more time. Not everyone was before that. Among other things, the KVP'er Romme and some other MPs said that these measures are useful, but let us also bear in mind that the government does not exercise too much powers that it does not have under the Constitution; we have laid down rights and freedoms as dikes in our Constitution and we must also protect them. I think that is also a very important task in the context of this crisis. We will now have to pay particular attention to the emergency regulations, but also to the Corona Act. A radically restrictive measure will continue to keep that distance. For our group, too, the question is: to what extent can this be maintained in the longer term at this stage of the crisis? How proportional is it now to demand this all the time and everywhere? Shouldn't it gradually become a social behavior norm instead of a concrete legal rule? That is the question I would like to put on the table. Mr. Chairman. As far as the SGP is concerned, the government must be reluctant to record in depth and in detail what may and may not be done, until singing in the church. Let the government keep a little buddy. Also offer space for personal responsibility and customization. I can assume that pressing for caution in the area of singing together is a reason for a good discussion between Minister Grapperhaus and the churches next week. But I would ask the Minister of the United States of America to do that, I hope, is not a reason for instructing the security regions to ban subdued singing together? I can see the Minister shaking no. Well, I hope that also comes out in words, because there was already some fear of psalm police. That would really be out of the constitutional order. I would therefore like to clarify that point. Finally, Mr President. We are glad that all kinds of relaxations have come. We must be alert to a revival of the virus, but we must not restrict citizens' freedoms for longer than necessary. That is why I will end with the question of the future prospects for alleviation of measures. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last three months have been tough. It was awkward. We kind of lost our "lopia." As of July 1st, there will be some light at the end of the tunnel. We can go back to the stadium. We can go back to the gym. Meetings may be held again. Free travel can do a little more. We can enjoy more freedom on a terrace. These are freedoms that people crave, which entrepreneurs crave, and that's sooner than expected. That's good for us. That is a compliment to the people in care, but also to society, who, with discipline, has averted a disaster on the ice. But for a moment, Mr President, is it really easy to follow? Is the accelerated relaxation supported by figures? According to RIVM, the effects of the 1 June relaxation are still uncertain. Why does the cabinet carry out the relaxations that we would very much like to go through earlier, when those effects are still uncertain? It must also be possible for people in society to follow. Mr. Chairman. The discipline in society seems to be weakening. People stay less at home and work less at home. The contagion rate is ticking the 1. How is the government going to ensure that compliance with RIVM rules does not weaken? Is it real to ask people to respect them when there are events where alcohol is given, for example? Mr. Chairman. We also see a decline in test readiness. How is the government going to make it grow again? After all, it is essential for everyone to be tested with complaints. In this crucial phase, the government leaves out the daily updates and the press conferences are also dropping. The Outbreak Management Team is going to consult a little less frequently. We will also miss them a bit; it was also a hold. But bringing and informing society remains important. Many people in society are concerned about the effects of corona on their privacy and their freedom. The future leader of the CDA, Hugo de Jonge, has shown himself to be a bit of a bad side in his actions with regard to the Corona app and the Corona Wealth Act; a number of colleagues have already said so. He really doesn't take that society with him. He creates unrest, and he also creates fear. He's throwing a bill on the fence to organizations and lawyers. About the fuss that ensues, he says with a lot of dedain that people actually talk in turn. As far as the app is concerned, too, he misses the point. In mid-July, he made a decision on how to introduce, but what exactly the app means, what the goals and complications are and what the effects on society are, was simply not sufficiently investigated. How is the Chamber involved? Minister De Jonge simply gets an inadequate level of communication for the lack of transparency. Mr. Chairman. Then the unintended consequences of the corona. We recently saw that Muslims wearing headscarfs and masks were wrongly refused at the municipal counter as a result of the Islamophobia plague law: the Law Partially Banning Face Covering Clothing. For DENK, it is unacceptable that Dutch Muslims are not able to access services in such a shattering manner. Is the government prepared to contact the VNG and send a circular to the municipalities that refusing Muslims with a headscarf and a mouth cap is unacceptable? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the travel advice. Aunt Truus and Uncle Cor want to go to Turkey, also this year, but that is a bit difficult because that country is still on code orange. If you go on holiday, your travel insurance may not be valid and you will not be taken back. We also see that the travel industry requires adjustments. Can the Minister still look at this? Finally. We still see everywhere in the world that vulnerable refugee children suffer from the corona crisis in refugee camps. Who else looks back at them? For a long time, municipalities in the Netherlands have been refusing to take in refugee children, but the government does not admit and shows insufficient humanity. Mr President, I am considering a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u167	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS would like to thank Minister Van Rijn for having spoken out against triage only on the basis of age. Thank you. That is very important, because there are quite a few misunderstandings and many older people are worried about this. We have spoken with one of the authors of the script, and that makes it very clear: it is really about the degree of vulnerability. The feasibility of the roadmap is still being discussed in the field and the Minister awaits its outcome. But can he guarantee that selecting only based on age will not prevent the playbook? When will it be finished? Is it ready for the second wave, if any? 50PLUS gets a lot of emails with complaints about nursing homes that deal with the visitation scheme much too strictly. There are no longer any restrictions for receiving visits in nursing homes. How does the Minister guarantee that nursing homes actually implement the relaxation? Is he gonna monitor that? Because where is the responsibility? Who can appeal to carers and residents if the relaxation of the visitor scheme is not applied? How does the Minister ensure that nursing homes communicate about this in a clear way? 50PLUS has raised the position of carers in almost every corona debate and they are still in line when it comes to support. Research by Alzheimer's Netherlands shows that 80% of carers who care for someone with dementia feel more burdened than the corona crisis. The same study also shows that half of it is not yet an alternative to daily spending. We need action now. What is this minister going to do to support this group more structurally? In the previous debate, 50PLUS tabled a motion to amend the heat plan in relation to the corona measures. The minister didn't think it was necessary. RIVM now advises not to use fans; only if there is no other way. I ask him again: is the current heat plan still satisfactory? After all, many nursing homes have no option other than the use of fans. After all, they are often old buildings. There has been attention to air conditioning in nursing homes before. Mrs Agema indicated that. Isn't it time to think about that again? It is predicted that we will have a hot summer. Are the nursing homes prepared for this? Research from the RIVM shows that the corona virus is early to be detected in sewer water, even before people have any complaints. Is it possible to test the waste water at nursing homes on a weekly basis, for example, so that it is clear at an early stage when there are new infections? For example, these vulnerable residents do not have to undergo an incriminating test. From 1 July all seats and pitches will be available again. Has this decision taken sufficiently into account vulnerable older people and other groups at risk? It won't be five feet away. Many will therefore avoid Ov. Then the economy. The impact of this crisis on public finances is enormous. Let us not make the mistake again by shooting directly into the austerity reflex. Right now, we need to invest as a government to drive the economy. Better jobs than benefits. Speaking of rushing, wouldn't the Prime Minister think it would be fantastic if pensioners could roll the money next year? Minister Koolmees confirmed last Tuesday that pensions could have been increased from 2007 if we had worked with the new rules. So there is a return. Doesn't it make sense that we're handing out these returns? The Netherlands would then not have 67% but 66% of the total pension capital in the euro area. This seems to us to be a logical and affordable price for the economic engine. In conclusion, we had held a motion on a moment of mourning plans to consider the victims of this pandemic. That was too early back then. We ask this government how it is now faced with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Hiddema has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is over. The number of infections is under control. In the intensive care wards, they breathe. The crisis team is even being dismantled and the Netherlands is slowly coming to life. But wrongly, the one-and-a-half-meter society is still not over, quite the contrary. The government is even in the process of implementing an emergency law which anchors the one and a half-metre society for at least one year. Without Parliament's assent, I repeat: without Parliament's consent, the government can extend that duration again. That law must be put in the trash bin, which law is retarded, which law is a threat to fundamental rights and dismantles parliamentary democracy. If there is a need, we will make an exception on the basis of the Constitution and it can be lifted at any time by Parliament. That'll do you good. The one-and-a-half-metre society has become a prestige object of the Prime Minister. He'll make it in the polls. The NPO always gives him an open cloth, but society, our nation, always pays a high price. "Demping in advance" are a few witty words towards the soccer supporters to express their joy. They have to make a horn sound or whisper "whore" as an expression of unbridled joy. Who does not know the frustration of the docile to follow a line on a paved floor or to the obligatory question of a waitress whether you are in good health. If all this still had value, if all this were to serve a meaningful purpose, then all this would be a small sacrifice for public health. However, the evidence builds up that the foundation for one and a half meters society, namely contamination through large drops, does not seem to be right. Instead, contamination would be mainly via microdrops. The measures to be taken against contamination by such microdrops are matters such as ventilation and looking up the outdoor air. This morning at the briefing, I questioned the virologist again about it. He had to admit that there is no scientific evidence that the one-and-a-half-metre society outside the door contributes to the defence against virus contamination. It's just not there. Nevertheless, the Netherlands is saddled with an artificial, insufferable, non-maintainable and increasingly ridiculous one-and-a-half-metre society. It is impossible to explain to the catering industry, which at least as it now looks, measured by scientific standards, meaningfully pushed to the abyss. The constitutional right to demonstrate is severely restricted. For example, peaceful demonstrations against one-and-a-half-metre society are banned throughout the country, and police violence is being put down. Except when it comes to Black Lives Matter demonstrations. Then the police are even instructed to be generous and to accept insults. Bumping legal inequality and appalling fear of blackmailers. Many studies show that the virus does not or hardly spread in the outdoor air. This is confirmed by the practice. The busy Ascension Day led to fear of a second wave, but that second wave stayed out. We have seen massive demonstrations, sometimes even against the cliffs, but they have not led to additional infections. Why is it that the cabinet is not always prepared to allow moving insights to be taken into account in the policy and to refrain from that absurd 1.5 metres? Don't let it turn into a prestige object! The health crisis is over, but the new crisis is threatening. It's about our freedom. The joy of life is moving away from society, the economy collapses, fundamental rights are being restricted. We can't let this happen. The Forum for Democracy will always oppose this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u171	Thank you. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor on behalf of the Van Kooten-Arissen/Krol group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. To be honest, I had prepared the roast of Hugo de Jonge today. It was about my health bonus, about the motion adopted unanimously in March on a bonus for the care heroes: the people with the hands on the bed, the supporters, the cleaners, all those people who have fought in front of our loved ones at risk for their own health. They deserve so much more than just applause. But the minister beat me to it. He called me this morning to tell me that he would announce that every care hero and anyone who has fought directly or indirectly to overcome the major corona crisis will receive a net bonus of €1,000. That's wonderful news. I thanked the Minister very much. I also made a joy dance after I hung up. I threw my critical speech in the trash, because this gesture is really very nice: almost 1 billion net for the care heroes. Can the Minister confirm for clarity that the bonus is net and has no effect on the surcharges? As I understand it, the bonus is really net, but I'd really like to hear a confirmation. Mr. Chairman. Let us see this as a beginning of more and structural appreciation for the care workers, without whom we are all without a chance in a pandemic like this. Now's the time to move on. If one thing has become clear in this crisis, it is that society is leaning on the shoulders of the healthcare sector. Caregivers work with their hearts, cross their own boundaries to provide care and scale up where necessary. After years of structural austerity, this finally deserves a better appreciation in structural terms. I would like to ask the Minister how he is going to ensure better working conditions, more control and structurally better salaries. How is he going to keep the people who are now threatening to leave care? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u173	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mr. Chairman. We know a lot more about the corona virus by now. In the effluents of Milan and Turin, samples of December have already found COOVID-19. This means that the first infection was not on 26 February 2020 but months earlier. The large number of patients has not accumulated in three weeks but in three months. So the infection is much less than expected. The distribution takes place via aerosols and not doorknobs. That's why there's almost no infection outside. Therefore, good ventilation, targeted air extraction and air filtration, where particles up to several nanometers are captured, is very important. Corona is only dangerous for people aged and in combination with overweight or other conditions. So you would say that, especially in view of the enormous social, cultural and economic damage, we could go back to the order of the day. But nothing could be further from the truth. We are in a dystopian situation, in which the cabinet has decided, without a good basis, to drastically restrict our freedoms. We pushed into the one-and-a-half-metre society, while the foundation for that one-and-a-half-metre society has long been lost. Even the head of the RIVM had to admit that 1.5 meters is completely arbitrary. But the consequence of this arbitrary 1.5 metres is that tens of thousands of companies will go bankrupt, not because of the corona virus but because of the bizarre measures taken by this cabinet. We are being deprived of our freedoms in a machiavellistic manner and the arbitrariness is now poignant. Even demonstrating against one-and-a-half-meter society is forbidden. I have the following questions for the Prime Minister. How far are you prepared to go anyway? Do you really think that Dutch people, who love their freedom and want their social and warm society back, will accept these 1.5 meters? Do you really think it is reasonable for entrepreneurs, artists and students to pay the price for this? Is it really so much to ask to adjust the 1.5 meters for the catering industry, as was done with the hairdressers? The measures have been taken with the lack of knowledge of that moment. We now have much more knowledge and we should not stick to rules that we now know are completely pointless. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u175	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend the sitting until 6:15, because then we'll combine the suspension with the dinner break. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u176	I will reopen the meeting and give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm imagining. I'll answer the questions in a moment, with your permission, in response to that part of the press conference I did yesterday. Then I have a residual category on the right of demonstration, travel advice to Turkey, some questions about the economy, and how we deal with the important issue of mourning. That's the rest category. Then Hugo de Jonge will answer his part of the questions, including the questions about the €1,000 and the covidwet. Martin van Rijn will then discuss, among other things, the protocol on intensive care and a number of other issues. Let me begin by saying that it is indeed important that we stick to those 1.5 metres. I heard some relativistic comments about this. I don't think that's wise. It doesn't help with the support. It's said, yes, but there's nothing going on outside, is there? That's not entirely true. I would like to remind you once again that one of the biggest contamination sites in Italy was the Atalanta match against Valencia at an open stadium in Milan. That was one of the main causes of the Bergamo outbreak. They call it the football game in Italy that should never have been played. That's example one. Example two: the demonstrations in America. At present, there are indications that these lead to a sharp increase in the number of infections in the United States. I would also like to mention the football matches in Spain. Thirdly, also mentioned this afternoon by Jaap van Dissel, I thought a study in the Amazon. The investigation among Amazon Indians who are living outside shows that infections are indeed taking place outside. Here and there it is also claimed that there was a study in China that showed that only one man was infected outside. Jaap van Dissel of the RIVM addressed this this afternoon. This study was carried out under special conditions, because during the period during which the study was being conducted, people had to preferably stay indoors and were taken outside specific measures. In this way the researchers of this specific research mainly find contaminations at home. Yeah, it makes sense if everyone has to stay home. Anyway, of course, we spend a lot of time inside. This also has to do with the fact that we are unfortunately more indoors than outdoors in our society. But it's really unwise not to maintain the 1.5 meters outside. I also want to get rid of it as soon as possible. I made that clear at the press conference yesterday. We all want to hug again, but it simply cannot yet. Even more important than that 1.5 meter, the agreement is to stay at home in case of complaints. The second most important measure is the 1.5 meters. Of course also wash hands, avoid crowds and have them tested immediately in case of complaints. This is in general about the 1.5 metres, but also in response to Mr Wilders' very relativistic comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u178	Very relative remarks? In the Netherlands, 1 in 10,000 people are still infected. Of the 17,5 million inhabitants, 1,715 are still infected. That's 0.01%. Those are the facts. That's not relative, but those are the facts. You are a liberal and I say to you: if the virus is so much gone, okay, not quite, but only 0.01% is infected............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am not just talking about hugging and everything you like, but I am talking about business, catering and other businesses, which are going bankrupt because of the one-and-a-half meter measure. They are no longer able to run their business and they have nothing to do with the total amount of more freedoms you used yesterday. Madam President, take, for example, the catering industry. I happened to be eating myself recently in a small restaurant, of which there are so many in the Netherlands. I hadn't really thought about it and said, "Nice, huh, you're going from 30 to 100." That was still the case at the time: 100 people in your company. The man said, "Mr. Wilders, look here: all tables five feet apart. There can't be one table, and we can't hold on to that. We have two tables on the terrace in the street. We have a third of the turnover. That can't go well!" This cannot be justified at a time when 99.99% of people in the Netherlands are not infected. We can talk about Bergamo and America, but I'm talking about the Netherlands. I have here the list I have already mentioned presented by RIVM and Mr Van Dissel this morning. This simply shows that 0.0% of people in the Netherlands have become infected outside. So I'm not being relativistic, but I'm speaking the truth. Stop with that one-and-a-half-meter dictatorship!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u179	It's not 0.0% outside; you can't tell that from the list. There are also sections such as "other" and "unknown," so you cannot deduce that it is outside 0.0%. That's really rhetoric. I think it's really unwise. I would like to address Mr Wilders on that point. He leads the second political party of the Netherlands. That's what they're listening to. We've been able to hit the virus pretty bad in this country. Let me take a look at Hugo the Young, see if I'm saying it right. Since 1 June, people with complaints have been passed through the test streets. If my information is correct, it turns out that something under 1,000 people per week are infected with the virus. So just under 1,000 a week. These are large numbers, but they are such numbers that we can now expand further. It is no longer the numbers of mid-March or early April. I'm glad you didn't. We hit the virus pretty bad, but it's not like the virus's gone. What's the risk now? The risk is that the virus will start to rise again under the radar. The risk is that if people go on holiday and just don't comply with the distance rules etc., the virus will be re-introduced in the Netherlands on return. So it is important that we maintain that 1.5 meters together. It's really unwise to let go of that. Van Dissel, the OMT and all the virologists unanimously agree on this. And if you look at Europe and the rest of the world, then the whole world has social-distancing rules inside and outside. That is not something the Netherlands invents. Listen, the biggest champ in the hospitality business is on this side of the chair. I'm a big fan of it and I wouldn't want anything more than that we can all get rid of this horrible one-and-a-half-meterer. But as long as there's no vaccine or medicine, we're just dealing with this for the time being. The virus is among us and can return in a moment. The economic damage it causes by being unwise and giving the virus space again is enormous. We may discuss this, but my appeal, including to Mr Wilders, is to support me and to help create support for this, as all experts worldwide, not only in the Netherlands, say that you should do so, both inside and outside. He's hurting the support base by questioning it. I'm just gonna say that for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u180	That's really inappropriate. That's really inappropriate. I have the right to differ. I also said in my term that I want to do it responsibly. I'll come up with a question about how we can do that for the inner spaces. I have put forward a concrete proposal for this. So I want to do it responsibly. Do not blame me for doing something irresponsible as the leader of the second party in the Netherlands, because I do not. I tell you, Mr Rutte, Prime Minister, through you, Madam President, that we in the Netherlands have virtually no infection and that it is disproportionate to lock half the country with the 1.5 metres. And you do. That's why companies go bankrupt. It's not like nobody thinks it's five feet off. In the Netherlands, Professor Emiritus Capel, Professor Rosendal and Professor Kroes may not say that it has to go completely, but they do question it. They say mass meetings are a greater risk than the 1.5 meter social distancing. I maintain that in the outdoors, on terraces or when people meet, there is simply a very small, negligible chance of people getting infected. Again, I'm not here to propagate anything unsafe. I am only convinced that that one-and-a-half-meter measure for outside is simply a one-and-a-half-meter dictatorship. You shouldn't do that. Then inside. There could be a problem inside. Inside is a whole different story. I am not going to discuss aerosols or large or small drops. But I do believe that what you have done with the KLM and with aviation should also be done for other sectors. Under certain circumstances, that 1.5 metres there is not mandatory. And if it can't be five feet, it's gonna be done in a different way. I invite you to look for solutions creatively with the catering industry and with other sectors that suffer from those 1.5 meters inside. Whether it's about ventilation, filters or screens, I repeat, I'm not a specialist in that. But the KLM has succeeded, so it could also work with other sectors. I have the next question to the Prime Minister. Koninklijke Horeca Nederland has quit the consultation. They're in a lot of pain. As Members of Parliament, we have all received a letter from them today, saying that if it all fails, we must have support for dismissal, transition compensation and WW deadlines. That can't be the case for the catering industry, can it? You don't want it to happen, do you? You don't want it to happen. You don't want it to happen. Again, most catering entrepreneurs, except for the big boys, do not benefit from the relaxations you announced yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u181	Mr President, Mr Wilders just said something very important. He said, "I'm not a specialist either." No, he's not. I know Mr Wilders well, I appreciate him, but he's not a virologist. We have experts in the Netherlands who advise us. We have the WHO. All countries in the world are slowly facing this crisis. We're currently at a record number of infections. The number of infections worldwide is now higher than at the end of March, when the number of infections in the Netherlands was at its peak. A record number of infections is recorded worldwide. All the experts from all the governments in the world say: inside and outside social distancing, keeping away. And here Mr Wilders says: it doesn't have to be outside. I'm really fighting that. I also really want the people who are following this debate to understand that this is not because we want to harass the catering industry or anyone else. We're doing this because otherwise we're really at risk, which is the risk of the virus coming back. Mr Wilders is also talking about inside. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. We also, of course, always ask experts from the cabinet what else we can do. For example, we asked if you could use those cough screens inside. Unfortunately, the last insight so far is still looking further at the fact that these inside does not help. Outside it helps when cough screens are placed between tables, but not inside. Why is that? Inside, in smaller spaces, there is a greater risk that the circulation of aerosols, larger and small drops and whatever it is, will come out above the cough screens. So you can't solve that with better ventilation. This ventilation is of great importance in sports locations. In most cases, sports locations, such as indoor hockey or indoor football, fulfil the conditions set out in the Building Decision. In the OMT advice, you can see that this is complicated for gyms. If the gym is in a location that meets these kinds of conditions in the Building Decision, then it is not a problem. But if the gym is located in a place that does not comply with the Building Decree, additional measures may need to be taken there. So you don't just solve this by placing HEPA filters. I'm afraid that's not the case. We really looked into it. I say to Mr Wilders that we are also constantly looking for creative solutions. If there are, we want them immediately; preferably tomorrow. But inside dull spaces, it's even more complicated than outside. We have seen the reports from Ischgl today; look at the German ARD website. In Ischgl, a large part of the population have had the virus by now. Just in the dungeon bars, the virus went around like an idiot. So that's a big risk. So as far as the outside is concerned, I maintain that it is unwise to do what Mr Wilders asks me to do. So we're not gonna do that either. And on the inside, I promise him we'll keep looking for all the creative solutions, but that's not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u182	I'm a democrat at heart. As long as I do not have a majority in favour of this, the Prime Minister will not hear me calling for the 1.5 metres to be removed. But it is my right to say to him that I think it is nonsense and that I think it is a one-and-a-half meter dictatorship, when I look at the small percentage of infections in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands 0.01% is infected. Research from China shows... that wasn't really a research where people stayed inside. That was a month before the people in Wuhan had to stay inside. It's bullshit to expect people to get infected outside. So I think that is a totally wrong policy. I am not calling for it to be done differently, but I think it is a totally wrong policy. That's what people can hear at home. Mr President, then inside. The KLM wasn't just about the filters. Answers from the cabinet and the RIVM to Parliamentary questions say that, for example, they looked at a system of air change, where the drops came down vertically. Well, I'm not saying that this can be done at any hospitality issue; maybe it's an invaluable investment. But there have been reasons why you have allowed it to be regulated by KLM and other airlines. That 1.5 meter wasn't handled. There are colleagues here who think that you have done this for economic reasons. I do not agree with this, but that is what is said. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to at least say that he will be inviting the Royal Horeca Netherlands back to the table next week. You didn't send them away, but they left in panic and despair. Would you be happy to look again with them to see if there are still opportunities to find a solution for the 1.5 metres in the catering industry, where there is a lot of employment at stake? This may not be an obligation to achieve results, but it is an obligation to do so. A request to talk to them, that doesn't seem too much to ask, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u183	No, but they ran away on their own. No, but fine, if they come back, we'll talk to them. Ferd Grapperhaus and Mona Keijzer have had a whole series of conversations with them and are immediately available for conversations. So if they're listening, give me a call. Say, okay, we were angry and we may still be angry, but we're ready again. That's fine. The conversation that takes place there, among other things, is about those cough screens. That is the first intermediate position, and I am afraid that it will not work. I didn't think all that was final. They're looking at that again. There's room outside between the tables. That's how these conversations are going on. I will therefore ask you to discuss this part of the debate, whether there are any possibilities in it. I fear, however, that I have to be honest about that, also because of what I have seen about the first intermediate position regarding the cough screens inside, that that is really not that easy, because of the stuporiness of many of those spaces. Of course, that is also inevitable, because they are not built as sports locations, but as cafes, and so cozy. Logically, this is also not with all large ventilation facilities. You can always look at it again. The first step is that they must say that they are willing to talk again. Then Ferd Grapperhaus and Mona Keijzer will of course be ready immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u184	Finally, I think the catering industry is listening. You may not be able to guarantee it tomorrow, but if you indicate that you want to talk to them about it again, with an open vision, where you have an opinion and they have an opinion, then at least we are a little further. It's unfair to say you ran away, but come back. At least they must have the feeling they can talk about something. Again, you don't have to tell me what you're gonna do right now, but they have to be able to talk about something. If you do, then we're... What "yes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u185	What's that? No, "yes," as in, you're right so far. But it's not like the Cabinet isn't willing to look at everything. The possibilities are just limited. We are sitting here with a very dangerous virus, which has manifested itself inside and outside to a danger, and, of course, within it, there are a number of additional problems, especially in dormant spaces. I do not want to give the impression here that we can solve it with a few smart filters or an extra ventilation device. That wouldn't be fair. It is a bit like Mr Wilders' impression that we thought: ha, nice, we can force the 1.5 meters and kill the catering industry. No. The virus is causing this. We try to create all the space to make the catering industry survive, because it is vital for the whole well-being of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u186	Finally, I hope that the catering industry will take up the gauntlet and talk to the Prime Minister again. I hope we'll hear what's coming out of that. Don't say "never" in advance. Who knows there are other creative solutions, with them or with you. There are a lot of smart people who can come up with that, just like they did in aviation. I'm glad. Thank you for that. Finally, when it comes to the outdoors, I find it, once again, really insane. As I said in my term, you can sit on each other's lips and drive to a terrace with five of them in a small car, if necessary in a Fiat Panda. In addition, there is only the advice to wear a mouth cap. That's not even mandatory. It says "urgent advice." When you get out, you have to sit on the terrace with five bulkheads in between if you don't belong to the same family, the same household. That's inexplicable. That's unnecessary. Once again, Mr. President, outside the five-foot radius, it just means a dictatorship that we have to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u187	I find that last one as flat as a dime. That really is the worst rhetoric. I've heard that at the beginning of the PVV, but not so much lately. It's so flat, so simplistic and if not true. I'm really upset about that, but I'm gonna leave it at that. About the second part, about inside, we agree. If they are willing to talk, then we are going to do so, and of course we are looking at all the creative solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u188	Keeping a foot and a half away is important. Let's count our blessings, too. In my opinion, most people in the Netherlands, but also here in broad political terms, share the view that this is important. There's one thing that's really bothering me. It's about the airline industry, the airlines. You can actually see that there are no restrictions on the 1.5 meters. We've seen footage of Schiphol Airport before. My problem is two things. One. Eventually RIVM also shows that it has no decisive proof that these filters are really completely safe. But also: what is our story to the theatres, the cultural sector, and to the catering industry, when you see that there is such a big difference? I would really ask the cabinet to be stricter when it comes to the aircraft industry, also because we know that there are a lot of fireplaces in the world. The Prime Minister mentioned the latter. If air traffic increases, the risk for the Netherlands that we will bring it back in will also increase. I really think we should be stricter on it than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u189	First of all... Those fireplaces and the risk of travel can only be solved with sharp travel advice. If necessary, we must keep areas red and orange and not yellow. That is the only way, because I would not find it fair to confuse it with, in bad jargon, the modes of transport, the way you come out of that fireplace or go there. But it's true that it's a risk to go to an area where it's really dangerous, and that's not even how you go there. The second thing I want to say about it is that the OMT advises exclusively from virology and epidemiology. That was the criticism of the OMT earlier. I am not saying that Mr Klaver claims that, but it has been suggested here and there before, and that is why I take this opportunity. The OMT therefore does not advise on the basis of an economic interest. The criticism was two months ago: do you also look at economic, social and social perspectives? We have set up a whole advisory system and discussed it following a motion by Gert-Jan Segers. Then we found the agreement. But the OMT really only looks with the look of epidemiology and virology. The OMT has said: given all the studies that have been done on filters and the way the air moves through an airplane, we think it can be done, but it includes triage and a mouth nose cap if it doesn't work with that 1.5 meter. In the theatres that is different, because there are no HEPA filters. There you have different circumstances and there you also have to deal with people who go in and out. Furthermore, you have to ensure that there are enough toilet facilities and that hygiene requirements can be met. That is why, unfortunately, we really have to stick to that 1.5 meter. But we don't do that because the OMT thought: oh, the economy. Once again, Klaver does not say that, but others have said here and there that we allow flights because of the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u190	We're very happy with the way things are going, aren't we? The virus seems lucky to be contained and therefore we can do more. Maybe this is why this is the most difficult time to think about how we should stick to all the measures that exist. It's just getting harder and harder to convince people that it's important to keep a foot and a half away. For people whose business is on the brink of the abyss, we still have the nasty message: sorry, there are no more people in your business; that is really not possible. And so we see that other requirements apply to airlines and that the OMT says: there is no conclusive evidence that these HEPA filters work better, but we assume that they are better. And I really spelled what they wrote about it. If the theatres indicate "we have air that is sucked in from the outside and there is a very high air circulation" then that is looked at differently. Mr. Chairman. I see that because of the way aviation is treated, people will no longer understand it. Think for example of the huge queues that we will see at Schiphol. You go to the theatre by bus, tram or train, but that also applies to Schiphol. And there, too, people have to use the toilet and there, too, people have to stand in line. The way in which we are dealing with aviation today, therefore, I do not think it is proportionate to what is happening in the rest of society. The conclusion could then be "Throw the rest of society open even further," but that is certainly not what I am saying. In fact, I think that we should be even more critical of what is happening in aviation. The Prime Minister says it's about travel advice. Then I say no, because the point is that we still don't have any protocols for how we want to deal with people who come here from abroad. The advice is "go into quarantine," but we don't force people to do it. If, by the way, the Prime Minister, I think it is an exorcism that he likes to hug someone in the street, then he runs the risk of getting a fine. But people who come from a fireplace abroad don't have to be quarantined. That is weird and it undermines the support for the 1.5 metres, for which this Prime Minister and, by the way, I also make a plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u191	Once, all at once. That support is also very important, but ultimately it is also important to see what the experts say about it. Hugo de Jonge and I have often said that you cannot say: these are all facts and added up can only lead to this conclusion. In addition to a quantitative assessment, there is always a need for a qualitative assessment. In the end, the experts' qualitative assessment is: it can be done in an airplane and in theatres it cannot be done. Those numbers are of course much larger and that also brings with them much more complexity. But at least that's the conclusion. For Schiphol also applies for that reason that when checking in, when checking your briefcase and when boarding mouth caps are needed. That is also maintained at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u192	Before we go back to those experts, let me point out that this is a decision of the cabinet. I have looked closely at what the experts have said about this. And today, in the briefing, Van Dissel actually said: it is time that the protocol for these airlines became much stricter. When you read the experts' advice, you see that there is no evidence at all that it would be safe in these planes. But the cabinet still makes that decision. That's not a decision of the experts, it's a decision of the cabinet. I respect that, and I want to respect that, but it does have an effect if you treat other sectors much more strictly. It's just the moment when we have two big concerns. We need to stop new fireplaces. The first question is: what comes from abroad? And the second question: how do we retain the support for all the measures we take? Then I see that the aircraft industry is a huge risk in that and that we are actually having the reins celebrated there. That's not good. I think the cabinet should choose to tighten up the protocols there. I hope that the Prime Minister will give that commitment, for the sake of support in the rest of society, but also to ensure that we do not get all kinds of contaminations from abroad in the Netherlands again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u193	In my opinion, we have taken all the steps, including for the aviation industry, including with OMT advice. It is certainly not that we want to make a difference with theatres. Mr Klaver doesn't say that either. We will discuss aviation in more detail in the next progress letter. Let's make a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u194	In the debate with Comrade Wilders, the Prime Minister just said: The Netherlands does not make up that one-and-a-half meter rule. I do not think that is entirely true, because a World Health Organization recommends 1,0 metres. I asked Jaap van Dissel myself during one of those sessions. Then he said: yes, the Netherlands is actually very arbitrary. In other words, we'll figure this out ourselves. So I wonder: now that the R is far below 1 and now that we're taking all kinds of lighting measures, has it been considered just going back to that 1.0 meter, which is also advised by the World Health Organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u195	Most countries in Europe do 1.5 meters. That's what happens in other parts of the world. England even handles 2 meters. In England they are now thinking about what to do with it. But they're at 6 feet. There are other countries that are at 2 meters. But a lot of countries do a foot and a half. Of course, this also has to do with the assessment of the extent to which people comply with it. At 1.5 meters it is not always 1.5 meters in practice. It is soon less than 1.5 meters, it soon goes towards 1.2 meters, 1 meter or 80 centimeters. And then the risks increase. So in the end, that's also a weighting. We made that weighing and said: better safe than sorry. With 1.5 meters it will not always be maintained in practice, it will not always be exactly 1.5 meters. And that is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u196	So at least we can see that the Netherlands is making up the 1.5 meters itself, because the World Health Organisation advises something else. Not all countries are at the same stage of the virus. We clearly see fewer infections. So again, isn't it a reasonable consideration to look at that 1.0 meter? So now we have 50% more in distance that we impose on the catering industry, which will bankrupt the catering industry in large numbers. So I wonder: isn't this the time to take another look at that 1.0 meter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u197	No, the distance that Mr Van Haga and I have to keep from each other is not determined by how many infections there are. It is determined by what the presumption is about compliance, in combination with what you see happening internationally and what is wise. It's not like you can get closer together if there are fewer infections, because then you can also say: it's 1.5 meters or 0 meters. Then you have to do that, but that's unwise because, if you don't keep that distance, the risk of the virus jumping over is just big.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u198	I understand the Prime Minister's argument, of course. I do not understand, however, that in some countries it can be up to 1.0 metres, that the World Health Organisation maintains up to 1.0 metres and that we do not even look at it. Anyway, let's not repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u199	If you are going to compare this internationally, I think we are going to go a long way in expanding Europe now. I have not yet been able to look at it fully, but I also saw a number of other countries doing enlargements today, which were included in the package of 1 June. We're really going a long way. If you really want to get it right, you are at 1.2 meters or 1.3 meters on average, but then you also have a lot less enlargements. So in that sense, you also have to make choices. I think this choice is wise in combination with the compliance rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u200	I would like to continue on Mr. Klaver's point, because in my speech I asked: there are strict rules for aircraft, especially they have very supersonic ventilation systems...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u201	That's what Hugo does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u202	Yes, but you just said you were going to return to the planes in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u203	Excuse me. Finish your question. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u204	My question was: if you had exactly the same conditions that you have on an airplane in terms of systems, in terms of mouth caps and everything on the ground, does that mean that it can also be organized on the ground? That was my question. I don't know if the Prime Minister will answer that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u205	The specific question about ventilation in nursing homes is addressed by Hugo. That is what Mr De Jonge is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u206	Yeah, but that was another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u207	And this question follows on from Klaver, so if I promise that we will go into the latest insights regarding aircraft and ventilation in a subsequent update letter, then I will answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u208	Fine, Mr. Chairman. Now this is the last debate for the coronareces, so I'm very curious if...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u209	Coronareces!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u210	I hear very nice images today, including Mr Wilders, who was going to shoot a mosquito with an elephant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u211	Yeah, great! I've got that picture in mind, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u212	All right, everybody's ready for recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u213	Yeah, I've said every time that the virus doesn't go on recess, so neither do we. But I am very curious when the Prime Minister will be able to come to the Chamber with this letter, or we will have to wait two months for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u214	Listen, if there are new insights, of course sooner, but the next update letter is right after the summer. But there's nothing new to report now either. It's not like we're suddenly getting totally new insights from the OMT. So we're going to present this part of the debate to them again and that's just going to be in the next update letter. I do not expect any great things from this now, but Mr De Jonge will look at the nursing homes in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u215	That's right. That was another question from me, but what I want to make clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u216	You're not done with Mrs. Van den Berg. She's not done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u217	The specific question was: if, on the basis of the current insights and conditions on aircraft, I do exactly the same conditions on the ground here, is that allowed or not? That was my question. I'm not asking for new insights, I'm asking about the current insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u218	But no one has a HEPA filter on the floor, right? I don't think so, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u219	Well, suppose a company says, "I'd like to invest in that, 'cause that's gonna get me a lot of money. Maybe people say, "I'm gonna sit there with a mouth cap." I do not know, but for clarity and clarity and also the support for measures, that was at least a question that my group also gave me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u220	Let us do it this way: Mr De Jonge is about to answer the specific questions about nursing homes. Then we'll see how far we get and otherwise we'll come back to the cozy dinner under a HEPA filter in the second term. Then let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u221	It also seems to me to be a considerable investment to have the same air installation as in an aircraft. That will not be possible for the average catering entrepreneur. But let us make a simpler comparison, because with these relaxations I will be able to sit in a coach next to someone else as long as I wear a mouth cover, and even for non-essential travel I can take public transport again. I find that comparison more difficult with theatres, cinemas and you name it, where the 1.5 meters have to be handled. So could the Prime Minister also explain to society why I can get on a coach or on a train within 1.5 metres, but not in a theatre or a cinema?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u222	Eventually, you have to make choices in that and those choices will never be perfect. We have roughly three exceptions to the 1.5 meters. The first are contact professions where you can ask in advance if someone has any complaints, such as the hairdresser, the masseur, etc. The second group are the children and the young. The third group is transport, but that is really important for society. So you don't talk about a balloon ride or a ship leaving and coming back to the same place for a nice getaway. Then you really talk about transportation that's needed to get people from A to B. At that last point we said: "It was so arranged for public transport. Let's extend that to the coaches and similar things, because it's not really easy to explain otherwise." If you were gonna go through that to the theatres, you'd just have a mouthcap society. And we know that in the end, those masks work very limited. They help a little with others not infect from the person himself, but people go picking and picking and putting it on badly. In the end, this can also lead to risks. The correct use of these mouth caps is also very important. In the end, that's why. You have to make choices somewhere. In theatres, of course, you keep the point that you don't talk about a coach with 50 people. I know that there are 4,500 people in De Doelen in Rotterdam and 2,500 people in the Concertgebouw, I thought. Those are huge numbers, all of which have to go out and in through those few doors, et cetera. There you really run a lot more risk than in a coach with up to 50 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u223	I understand very well that is also the dilemma that you have to make a choice somewhere. Not everything can happen. I'm definitely not in favour of a mouthcap society. I think it would be a very suffocating feeling if you were to live in a face society, but with this answer from the Prime Minister, there are two follow-up questions that come to my mind. My first question. You were just talking about splash screens in the hospitality business. I have also seen theatres that have devised protocols and wherever they think they can make a much higher occupancy rate in such a theatre room possible with splash screens. Will the cabinet continue to talk to the cultural sector about better protocols in that sector? Then there's my second question. In my view, Mr Asscher and I both set them in the first term. If, after 1 July and even after 1 September, there are sectors that are not able to run at full speed because of the limited space they have, is the government prepared to look in the autumn to see if additional support measures are needed for these specific sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u224	I'll get to that second question in a minute. The first one. Yeah, that's what the conversations are all about. The problem with those splash screens or cough screens, which is the word of the year 2020, cough screens inside the cafes is that it still lingers in that room over the cough screens. Let's agree that if in the discussions with the theatres, Ingrid of Engelshoven conducts that would prove that they want to know about RIVM, that is always possible. I'm just afraid I don't want to create hope here that you won't solve it with cough screens between all the seats, because it just comes out above the cough screens and it's a dense space. That's different from the outside terrace. Because of course there is a difference between inside and outside and that is certainly true here with those cough screens. That's not just the solution to a theater, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u225	A bit along the lines of this is the discussion about the football stadiums. Of course, there was some news about that yesterday. I like being in a football stadium myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u226	What club?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u227	There's someone behind you who makes perfect sense. That's in De Kuip. I think a lot of soccer supporters were happy with news yesterday, including me. But I imagined that you'd be there in De Kuip for example, then Ajax comes to visit and then a goal is made, because that happens quite often when Ajax comes to visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u228	Then Ajax makes a lot of goals, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u229	No, no, no, no. No, no, no. How does a Kuip like that go? 'Cause I understand there's gonna have to be whispering. Can the Prime Minister explain how he sees that? Because I can assure him one thing: then there is no whispering in De Kuip. Stay out of it, Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u230	Yeah, stay out of it! Simply put, then we have a problem. Then we really have a problem and then it doesn't work. Let's see how it goes. I am confident that the KNVB and the football clubs are creative. Just give everyone those noise-making horns and I don't know. But the fact is that singing, screaming really brings great risks. There are firm opinions on this and this is also truly internationally recognised. About the stadiums we say... no, we don't actually say anything about stadiums anymore. We say outside can be at 1.5 meters, provided you have met all the conditions. So you have to deal with the mayor, with the city, you have to take care of hygiene measures, you have to have enough entrances and exits. If you can do all that, you can do it. But you can't scream. So if that happens, yeah, you know, then we have a problem and then we have to look at it again. Screaming is really unwise, because screaming is really not enough. Then the virus will spread much faster. I can see that this is difficult, but there are two options. Or we say we don't do it, so we leave those stadiums empty and we just play games without an audience. Or we'll say it's okay. Then you have this disadvantage. I can see that too, but here it is the same as with the cafés that have problems with the 1.5 meters. We're not doing this because I think we're going to bully people for a while by saying they shouldn't cheer at the station anymore. We're doing this because the virus is there, and because that virus just spreads too quickly when people start screaming. And we know that, of course, these are places that involve risks. I have just mentioned a few examples in the world. The same goes for singing in the church. We have said: a choir on stage can, under all kinds of conditions. Further opinions will be given on this matter. But we can't sing in a group, so we can't sing in the church. I just can't. There are too many risks. So we're gonna read the psalms. I thought I had challenged Mr Van der Staaij with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u231	This was indeed about entrapment. I won't be singing, but I do have a question about it. I understand very well that the Prime Minister says that caution is also needed here. However, I find it difficult for him to make a statement yesterday, in response to questions raised at the press conference, in very clear terms, that it is virtually forbidden. Then I think: hey, how can it not be just seen first what possibilities there are to limit risks with the 1.5 meters, with "complaints you stay at home," with good ventilation and with subdued singing? And then I also hear from the RIVM: yes, that could be. Doesn't the Prime Minister draw far too far-reaching conclusions? And he also gets to religious freedom by saying: no, we're going to do that differently? That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u232	So far the opinions have been quite firm about singing along, chanting and screaming. This does not apply to the vocal choirs from a stage. Something can be done, under conditions. But when singing along, chanting and screaming, it's different. And of course it's fine if new insights emerge in the contact that Fred Grapperhaus also has with the churches, as well as with the mosques and other institutions. But especially in the churches singing will of course be an important theme. If new insights arise: fine. But right now, the insights are as I said, and we have to act on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u233	The reality is that the insights are not unambiguous. This morning's technical briefing showed the same thing. I understand that very well. You can also understand with your common sense that if you sing loudly, you will have a great range. That all makes sense. But the follow-up question is: what exactly are the risks and how can you use measures to eliminate them? In fact, I find it very strange that this debate is not just being held and that, while there is no proper investigation, a sort of stricter measure is actually being declared.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u234	There's a tight advice that says, "Don't do it." But if Van Dissel says that if you sing softly you can, then that seems to me to be a reason for further discussion between Grapperhaus and the churches. But we are now basing ourselves on the OMT opinions, and I think they are very clear on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u235	Minister De Jonge also says that the advice is unambiguous. Then I am very curious to find where that can be found, because I have not seen it so far. I come across more that it is written: it is unclear, it is still being investigated and we still do not know it. Then I think: it goes a long way when we say about all the things that are still unclear: don't do it. But I also hear the Prime Minister say that Minister Grapperhaus of Honor Service is very happy to discuss it when there are still different insights about it. So that also means that there is not, in anticipation, a new instruction towards security regions that says: there should also be no subdued singing in the church?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u236	No, now that's the instruction. We can't do that. Hugo de Jonge is going to discuss exactly how that works legally, because he has figured that out and I haven't got it ready right now. So that's what he's going to go into. But now our interpretation of the advice is: you shouldn't do it. But for all these things, we keep talking. Because of course you want to normalize everything a little bit further. There are still a number of serious restrictions, even after yesterday. Of course it is. This is not only true in discotheques and nightclubs, but also in what is so decently called "forced in groups to raise your voice." Yeah, they're all limitations that make life less fun. If the question now is "what is the government's position?" And "what do you think should happen?', So this is the answer. If that conversation continues, we are always looking for new insights, also about filters and you name it; we had that discussion earlier today. We always are. If that leads to new insights that can expand things, I say "please!'. If I walk past a church, I'd rather hear singing than think, "Are they open?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u237	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr. Chairman. Then a few specific questions were asked about the trade fairs, by Mr Veldman. Those are events where people walk. So that's part of the flow activity. There is no maximum limit, but the organisers must ensure that all compliance with the rules and advice takes place. There is a lot of room for customization, but you have to make sure that within such a trade fair there is also a distance to be kept, with that going through and so on. In the same context, Mrs Van den Berg had a question about the MBO. We've been looking at that for a long time. It's kind of complicated. For secondary schools, secondary education, we have now said "how old you are, you can get within 1.5 meters," so if a student is 19 or 20 years old, he doesn't have to stick to the 1.5 meters in school. That's complicated, because that 19-year-old has to stick to the distance of 1.5 metres outside. But we do, because you can't make that distinction in a school, of course. Conversely, you sometimes have to deal with students 16, 17 years old, who do not have to stick to the 1.5 meters outside. We finally said that we have to go inside. Why is that? Because we have looked at the mix of students under 18 years of age and 18 years of age and over. Then it turns out that only 30% of students in the MBO are under 18 years of age, and 70% are over 18 years of age. With so many people over the age of 18, it just gets very complicated to say that they can all come within 1.5 meters. In the MBO you have, of course, students who can pile up and be 21, 22, 23 years old. In high school, a stacker of mavo, havo and vwo or a student who stays on the vwo once or twice may be 19 or 20 years old, but that is more the exception. In the MBO you just have too big a group. And the risk really increases as people get older. So up to 18 years old, the alcohol limit on the street, so to speak, we don't handle the 1.5 meters. In the vo you can get within 1.5 meters, but unfortunately not in the mbo. So that's the trade-off. It's not prettier. That really has to do with the ratio of numbers. There was a question from Mr Veldman about the travel industry. Those consequences will be felt for a long time to come. Of course, all emergency package measures are also available to them, including all abbreviations: the TOGS, the TVL, the NOW debt facility and the credit facilities, as well as the possibility to request a deferred tax payment. You can see, of course, that this sector is very diverse. There are considerable differences in terms of both size and capital costs. Fortunately, from 15 June onwards, tourism travel in Europe, which has been going on for more than a week, has been proceeding with caution. Our idea here is: let's take a very precise look after the summer. It is also important for the sector itself to consider how to organise future-proof operations for the longer term as well. We keep the finger sharp on the wrist. The Guarantee Fund fund receives a loan of 150 million from us. As a result, they can continue to compensate consumers in the event of bankruptcy of member travel organisations. However, it also helps travel providers, as this naturally prevents consumers from collecting their travel expenses in mass on cancelled package travel, which would also increase the risk of bankruptcy. So the last word has not yet been mentioned. We will have to monitor this very closely with each other. The question was also whether, in the Millions Note, we will return to a number of issues that are currently under discussion, including care pay and pandemic prevention. Without a doubt there will be a lot of attention in the Millions Note, I suppose, for the consequences of the coronavirus. At least that's my goal. The first letter has yet to be decided in political terms, but no doubt there has already been preliminary work done. I think we should wait until it arrives, but of course it is obvious that we should talk about this further towards Prinsjesdag. Then there was Mrs Dik-Faber's question about the hedges. For a meeting to confess a religion or belief in a public place, this is the case at a hedge speech, as in a procession, as in demonstrations and demonstrations, it is compulsory to report to the municipality; only a notification obligation. Often you see in this type of activity that is then sufficient with one notification for multiple meetings, as long as they are periodic. This gives municipalities and church societies every opportunity to make local practical arrangements. You see in a lot of church societies, so is my information, that protocols have been formulated for this. So I think that a role of the government at the moment has no added value, but let us agree that if you have signals or if we get them ourselves that things are not going well, then we will pick this up and ask the relevant authorities for attention. Then events and alcohol. One of the reasons why it is so important that the 1.5 meter is arranged with seats if you are going to organize a festival, is that you already know what happens otherwise: you say "guys, stick to the 1.5 meter" and after the third beer everyone is crazy about each other. That is one of the reasons why we at festivals say that, even though it is very uncomfortable, in Paradiso, 013 and AFAS Live all have to stand chairs every 1.5 meters. It doesn't look good, but it's just the same, simply because alcohol is really a risk there. That is why we also say that outside up to 250 people do not need seats, except on the terraces. That's where you're gonna sit. Why an exception for other situations outside up to 250 people? Because otherwise you won't be able to stand by the sports field. Or think about the street barbecue. You'll make an exception for that. But for the terraces, which also applies to events and festivals with more than 250 people: seats. Inside, that's always true anyway. Finally, Mr President. What is the further prospect of alleviating the measures? Actually, I just said something about it. In the coming months, however, we will continue to talk very closely with sectors about what can still be done. We have discussed a few fine examples of this here today. We talked about singing in the church, we talked about flying and so on. On September 1st we have a weighing moment about discotheques and nightclubs anyway, because for them it is incredibly sad news that they are closed until September 1st. Mr. Chairman. That about my contribution to the press conference yesterday. Then I get to a pile of variety questions that don't allow themselves to be clustered. But there may be questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u239	Just in front of my picture. The Prime Minister, in reply to a question from Mr Jetten, said that he would come back to the question he asked and I asked him, namely what the Prime Minister is going to do in the direction of those sectors which, because of that 1.5 meters, are not profitable...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u240	Yeah, sorry, that's right. That's in the pile of varia, in economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u241	That's varia? Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u242	Yeah, there's some economic...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u243	It's been about the theatres for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u244	That's right. I can do it right away, because it has now been asked for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u245	I thought the varia block was reserved for Mr De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u246	No, no, we both have varia. So for the viewer: we try to cluster questions and if that doesn't work anymore, they become separate questions and you put them in the box "varia." There was a question about entrepreneurs threatening to fall: how do you deal with that? My reaction to this would first of all be: a great deal is being done now. You know the whole story: provisions aimed at the payment of wages to employees, bank lending, tax measures, guarantees, fixed charges and subsidies for income support. Those are the existing packages. Furthermore, we must also realise that not everyone can be supported in a proportionate way. That's a fact, too. We'll see that not all companies are going to make it. There will be companies that will eventually not be able to go through this crisis. That is why we are also working on a toolbox to help entrepreneurs stop in the most efficient way possible if a company is really not viable. Let us hope that this happens as little as possible. At the same time, if there is a future for the company, the same tools are used to clean up and restart it. These are separate instruments that are being looked at. We're thinking. Wouter Koolmees of the week said something about this in the debate, I read in the newspaper yesterday. We had also discussed this internally. What does the first thinking about a package 3.0 mean, so after October 1st? We had a first careful conversation about this internally. This type of question will also have to be addressed in greater detail. We still have to get the whole decision-making process, so I'm not going to speculate, but this will also have a role in it: how do you deal with companies that threaten to fall? [[Sentence could not be parsed: De heer Asscher van de PvdA had nog een aparte vraag over plannen maken.]] Talks are being held with the heavily affected event sector. That is what Mr Asscher called in particular. We are working together to see how we can further shape the future perspective. Of course, the sector itself is in the process of doing so. For the hospitality sector, a task force has been set up where all parties from the hospitality economy are at the table. Of course, a very intense conversation is going on with the catering industry specifically. Thanks also to the discussions I had with Mr Wilders on this subject, we hope to be able to resume matters in the near future. With all the capacity constraints that exist, inside and outside, we look at what more creativity can do to prevent damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr Asscher and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u248	Much has been done, with our support, in a general sense. But now there is a danger that there will be a huge problem. The prime minister just mentioned 013 and Paradiso. These are two institutions which are no longer available at the end of the year. Sectors that are disproportionately affected by the one-and-a-half meter measure do not survive with the general measure. This requires a political choice: do you want to save sectors or not? What part do you want to keep for the economy and which part doesn't? We have heard in aviation 'whatever it takes'. The cultural sector is a good example: 350 000 jobs. Of these, tens of thousands are on the way and these reorganisations are now under way. So I really want to make a compelling request to the cabinet to take the initiative to work on a recovery fund, a concrete plan, for that sector. This can't wait till Prince's Day. More is lost than just names and settings. No, a lot of work and a lot of quality is lost. I heard the Prime Minister yesterday say "it's world class" and "they're so smart." That's all true, but now more is really needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u249	I agree. That is why these discussions with the event sector are also taking place, working together to shape the future perspective. For the second time, I can be briefed on where that is exactly, because I do not have all the details of it. But in general, I know that these talks are going on and that this is again being presented to me here and that the sector itself is also strongly involved. There is a separate task force for the hospitality sector, but this is of course the case especially for the event sector. In addition, of course, there is a whole package for the cultural sector. So let me agree that for the second time, I would like to ask you to inform me on how this existing package of support for the cultural sector and the discussions that are going on with the event sector are interacting with me, also in view of the coming weeks and months. That is, of course, what Mr Asscher is actually saying, and he is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u250	I appreciate that in itself, but I really want to make this profession personal. Something's threatening to go wrong here, which doesn't have to go wrong. It will require funding. That's right. More than is currently planned, but much less than it will ultimately cost if a large part of vital sectors are really destroyed. You have to be very careful that all compliments for the culture and the events do not become a kind of applause for the care that nothing comes after. It is not too late now, but we really need to offer a concrete perspective very quickly. There's been a 300 million-dollar package. That is good, but we all know that this package, aimed at a number of institutions, is really not enough for a sector where there was a loss of revenue of 2.6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u251	They also, of course, make...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u252	I think it's necessary, and it can be, and it should be. So I ask the Prime Minister personally about this...I think the information on which conversation is taking place is very good, but more is really needed to prevent a huge accident this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u253	Let me get that straightened out first. I shall come back to that in the second term. I hear what Mr Asscher is saying and, as always, his words touch me, but I would just like to map out exactly what we are doing and how they are using the existing support packages. After all, they use that as well. They are, of course, making specific use of the support package made for the cultural sector. There are conversations going on, there are extensions now, so let's see what the state of play is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u254	My question follows on from this. In my opinion, we have also established in previous Corona debates that art and culture simply give life colour. That's exactly what we all noticed in that lockdown. It is very pleasant if the Prime Minister wishes to give the final state of play in the second term. I would like to add the following question. Many people in the cultural sector and the event sector say: we understand it even if we have longer restrictions because of those 1.5 metres inside, but we can only plan for autumn and winter if we know in good time what awaits us. Could the Prime Minister indicate in the second term when he expects to be able to clarify what the world looks like after 1 September for the cultural sector and the event sector? If enlargement is not possible after 1 September, when will it be possible to clarify a possible extension of the aid package? Many of these entrepreneurs say: "If there is only too late a clarification about an extension, I have already had to pull the plug, because I am now planning for the new cultural season. If I know in good time that I can only open limitedly but that the government will continue to help me, then I will adapt to that now and not only in September or October."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u255	Look, all this code of conduct, which is 1.5 meters in particular, will be weighed at some point, but there is no date on it now because it has to do with the question of how the virus relates in the coming period and with the demand for the latest virological, epidemiological insights. The bad news is that "at sausage" doesn't stop until there's a vaccine or medicine, but of course you're hoping that at some point there'll be other circumstances to get rid of. You can't promise that right now. We cannot give any perspective on this, because at the moment there is nothing to be said about it. I would like to ask Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten to take this aspect into account, so that I can give a comprehensive answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u256	We have talked a number of times here about exactly what the strategy is. Is the strategy around the virus the controlled going around so that the care can handle it and we protect our vulnerable or we have always argued for it to contain it to the maximum and try to go back to zero? The Prime Minister often said: we can't, because then we have to go into a lockdown and there are policemen at the door and all that sort of thing. We've had a lot of discussions about that. Now there's an opinion from the OMT this week. The OMT says that maximum control of the virus is often the term that was also used by the Cabinet as an explanation of the strategy followed.... means to contain the virus as much as possible in such a way that the number of new infections goes to almost zero, preventing new outbreaks or remaining manageable. Is this interpretation of the OMT about the term "maximum control as the cabinet always uses" also the explanation of up to check as the cabinet itself fills it out? This was sometimes referred to by the Prime Minister as a semantic discussion, but it is not, of course, because our belief is that if we are really committed to decisive research on sources and contact and limit it to maximum, the economy can be opened up earlier and that saves a lot of people in the Netherlands a lot of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u257	The answer is yes. This is also on page 3 of the letter sent by the cabinet at some point. Checking the strategy of maximum control on page 3 in that letter from Hugo de Jonge, I don't know the date as soon as, but that will have been in early May. So the answer is yes. That is how I explained it the previous times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u258	How many questions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u259	I'm a long way. This question has also been removed. Grief. Important. It is right that Mrs Van Brenn should draw attention to this again. Here's what I want to say. We want to take a decision at the last ministerial council for the summer, which is on 10 July, and we are talking about this with all the relevant parties that will publish and continue to develop in the summer. That is the internal planning of how we implement it. This has been the subject of extensive initial discussions over the past week. Then there was the question of demonstrating. The right of demonstration is a large and constitutionally protected property. We are not looking at the subject of a demonstration to assess whether or not it can continue. Turkey is still subject to an entry ban, which is also linked to the health risk of entry from that country. With regard to these health risks, the travel advice is still orange at the moment. We are currently looking at how to deal with travel from outside the European Union in Brussels. These are objective health risks. They must be decisive and no other argument. We are not going to talk to VNG about the problems of people with headscarfs and mouth caps. That seems to be very limited and then my first suggestion is that people should report to the municipality. If Mr Azarkan can explain that problem immediately, we are always prepared to take it up again with VNG. There doesn't seem to be any immediate cause for this right now. Mr President, I am through, but I see Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u260	Mr Wilders, then Mrs Van Brenk and then Mrs Ouwehand. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u261	Thank you, Madam President. The Prime Minister was just biking over the demonstrations in two sub-sections, but I have to say that it is quite a coincidence that at the moment you think "well, I'm going to demonster" against Black Piet or racism, you get permits, as far as you need them, or at least it's allowed to demonstrate and not banned, even in Amsterdam with the help of the mayor. The mayor's even in, you don't have the rules, you're on TV in the talk shows, you can even yell that if you run into Black Pete, you're gonna kick him on the face, you can do all that. You're even invited to the Prime Minister's office, I think at the Catshuis, to have a nice cup of tea. But if you're actually someone who says, "I don't like that, I don't agree with Rutte, I want us to get that freedom back, and that corona law doesn't come, that we're gonna bury that five feet," you're gonna have a hard time. Then by a mayor who happened in Eindhoven, your demonstration is forbidden. Then another VVD mayor in The Hague bans your demonstration. That's a big deal. As Prime Minister, I understand that the mayor is about it and not you, Mr Prime Minister, should ensure that the people who are critical of your policy should be the first to demonstrate. You already have enough jabs in the coalition and people who support you. You must also give the people who do not support you the opportunity to demonstrate. It's really not fair the way it is. You're measuring with two sizes. And I think that expression is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u262	What a bullshit story, really! Then I ask Mr Wilders: how did the demonstration of Black Lives Matter in Amsterdam end? The mayor broke up the demonstration because people didn't keep their distance. So there's no double standards. That was a demonstration of Black Lives Matter. It was not against me or against the one-and-a-half meter policy. It was people who demonstrated in response to George Floyd's terrible death. That demonstration was initially approved, but it was later lifted because people did not keep their distance. There are no double standards here. About The Hague Remkes explained that we are not going here. That's up to the mayor. There was said: because of the numbers. But then it turned out later that he couldn't say that because of the reports that there were.............................................................................................................................................................................................. That's why that demonstration was forbidden. But there's no double standards here, no way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u263	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u264	We're all against hooligans, but that's why the demonstration wasn't prohibited. The demonstration was already banned on Friday. And on Sunday it was finally allowed by VVD mayor Remkes for half an hour and then it did indeed go wrong. But I'm not just talking about that Sunday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u265	It was because of the size of the turnout.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u266	I'm talking about the fact that, when it comes to people who are against your policy, who oppose the 1.5 meters, who stand up for the Dutch freedoms, several mayors in the Netherlands often say that they are going to ban those demonstrations and that people who are doing something else... It was so bad that the VVD mayor from Eindhoven.We were able to read that yesterday in the newspaper...................................................................... Before that demonstration started. That's double standards. Whatever you're demonstrating for, it's a fundamental right. You should be treated equally, whether you agree with you or agree with me or not. If you look at the number of refusals of demonstrations, the prohibition, but also the instructions to the police, Black Lives Matter says the VVD mayor of Eindhoven: take it easy on the police. I haven't seen that anywhere else, perhaps rather the opposite. And you need to distance yourself from that. You must say that everyone in the Netherlands is treated equally and also has the opportunity to demonstrate if they disagree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u267	I didn't really get the feeling last October/November that there were only demonstrations from adhesion to the cabinet. I was in New Zealand and then my New Zealand colleague Jacinda Ardern said: what wonderful agricultural exhibitions you have in the Netherlands. I thought, "Agricultural exhibitions"? She showed the pictures of the demonstrations on the Malieveld, where indeed beautiful tractors were drawn up of a model and type that they can only dream of in New Zealand. Yeah, because fortunately our farmers just have good stuff. But then I explained to her that it was of course the grateful people who came to applaud the Prime Minister, but unfortunately it was all a bit more critical. And that didn't happen once. That happened three or four times last autumn. So it's really quatsch that the mayors here think: we only allow demonstrations that Rutte likes. What nonsense, what total nonsense!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u268	The Prime Minister can laugh it off...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u269	No, I'm not laughing it off, I'm giving you the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u270	You can laugh it off the rutte-like way again and make a joke about it and bring in the prime minister of New Zealand. But the facts are that in recent weeks, since the murder of that black gentleman in America, demonstrations have been held here at the sharpest of the cuts and they have been refused when it comes to the people who had a different opinion, while when it comes to the people who were for Black Lives Matter and who were against Black Piet, they were given all the space. They were even invited to your house at the Catshuis. Well, those critics didn't get that from you. You didn't invite him to the Cat house. So don't come down with the trivialization...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u271	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u272	No, that's not bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u273	Really bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u274	That's not bullshit at all. You just have to be honest and treat these people equally. Those VVD mayors shouldn't ban those demonstrations and say to the police at Black Lives Matter, "Hold back." Or Mrs Halsema okay, not a member of your party who says in Amsterdam: I think it is an important subject. That's not right. Also those who criticize the way things are now with Black Piet, anti-racism policy or with the corona law have just as much right to demonstrate. Don't stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u275	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u276	Your friends from the VVD, the mayor, neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u277	What is Wilders doing here pumping up on something that we fully agree on, namely the right to demonstrate? Apparently, he's invented an attack that mayors are supporting Rutte. And then I'm just gonna talk to people who agree with me! Last year, I believe, I organised four sessions in the Catshuis, with earthmoving companies, with the agricultural sector, often together with Carola Schouten of Agriculture, with all kinds of sectors to talk about the great concerns we had about our nitrogen policy. That was in response to, before or during demonstrations. Sometimes the demonstration was even for the Catshuis: you know, that's the Netherlands! We just have a great country and those demonstrations usually go pretty well. In the Bijlmer there was a wonderful demonstration of George Floyd's terrible death. 10,000 people were standing at a distance of 1.5 metres. There have also been demonstrations in other places. In The Hague, however, there were concerns about the expected turnout, I understand. There were also reports that hooligans would mingle with the protesters. They did. And one more thing: great respect for the police. The police have sorted out and said to the protesters: be wise and stay on the Malieveld, for there are some total idiots coming and it will become dangerous if they get mixed up among you. They have tried to sort it out and have then acted rock and rock hard against the hooligans. And rightly so. What a fantastic police we have in the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u278	I'd like to join the latter, Prime Minister. I asked a specific question. I understand that we still have to talk about next year's budget and so on, but the question was: are we not going to go into the austerity reflex as a government? Is it clear that, as a government, we should be promoting employment and jobs rather than getting benefits? The story now and later: it's going to be tough, but we have to be the driver of the economy. I would very much like to have that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u279	Wopke Hoekstra, I and others in the cabinet have already said that all decision-making has yet to take place, but that it is not really convenient to go down in such a massive economic downturn or increase taxes. However, we can look at whether we can do reforms that produce returns and economic growth in the longer term, so that you can get the budget back in order at some point. But cuts or tax increases aren't on the radar right now. Of course, I can't guarantee anything for Princess' Day, but I don't have the impression anyone's ready right now. I wouldn't think it was smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u280	The word "reform" gives me a little goose bumps. Most of the time, that's a slight cutback. At least I'm going to hold you to the fact that we need to keep people at work and get back to work. I am going to follow the policy critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u281	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u282	The cabinet is going to write the Millions Note this summer. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister about the climate. I mentioned it in my first term. Together, the International Energy Agency and the IMF have concluded that there is a unique opportunity to structurally reduce CO emissions and thereby create more jobs than we are now losing because of the corona crisis. That's bet on the green economy. I would like the Prime Minister to give me the undertaking that this is also how the Millions Note is being looked at this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u283	It all sounds wise, but I can't see it right now. We're gonna have the whole discussion, but I'm gonna take this thought with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u284	Very nice. I had asked the Prime Minister if he could reflect on the first version of the corona law that was presented. I find it rather worrying and I hope that the Prime Minister is also shocked that the officials, although they normally do their job well, have written such a law that is very deeply concerned about our fundamental rights. Even state lawyers say we're going back to the time of Willem I. I would like to hear the Prime Minister before we, as a Chamber, start fighting with the cabinet about the amended law that still has to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u285	It is always the question which Willem I: the governor or the king. I wonder if I should. It is one of the two main topics of Hugo de Jonge. I know what he's gonna say. I got a copy of all the answers suggested to him. I can read it to you now, but maybe it's better that he does. He's got that wallet. The core is in one sentence. The law is based on a motion of D66 and the SGP and aims to restore the Chamber to its position as regards the emergency regulations. That's what we want. The cabinet does not want any additional powers at all; we have enough powers. We want the Chamber back in position and the mayors back in position. That's the core of what we're doing with that law. And if there's anything in it that doesn't like it, we're gonna talk about it. There's been a lot of criticism. Take it from me that we're going through that law with a comb to get everything that's now being claimed socially, as if it were a coup d'état by Hugo de Jonge and me, if it was in it, but I don't think it was in it, and to bring it back to the essence of Van der Staaij and Jetten's motion, namely to provide support for the emergency regulations and put the Chamber and the mayors back in position. That's what we're doing at the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u286	That's exactly where the question is. If the cabinet is insisting that it was not the intention at all to confer powers and if the cabinet is insisting that fundamental rights are not simply entered into, then the Prime Minister must also be very surprised at the version that has been put forward. It is not just that there is supposedly social criticism; the Council of State refers the whole thing to the wastebasket. I thought I'd get the Prime Minister to reflect on that. And of course the Chamber is going to correct all this; we are there ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u287	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u288	But it is an embarrassment that the ministries responsible dare to send such a version. Isn't that what's causing extra unrest and even less support for your actions? It seems to me that the Prime Minister should have had one of his famous rage outbursts about this internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u289	Well, no, actually, I don't. With that heat, it's no good anyway. But no, I didn't. Moreover, the Council of State has given a good opinion. That is what we are now incorporating into the bill and we hope to offer it quickly, as is always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u290	Much of this debate was about the reward of our caregivers at the start. I would also like to hear a statement from the Prime Minister on this. One. Does he recognize that it shouldn't just be applause? Two. Does he see that, if there is no extra structural appreciation for caregivers, that can really lead to serious problems because caregivers will leave care when we need extra people? Three. Does he also see that the scope for improving working conditions is not going up but down? Does he therefore recognise that something needs to be done now to ensure that caregivers receive a better appreciation and that it is not just that applause?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u291	To begin with, Hugo de Jonge will go into this in a moment. This €1,000 is a net amount. There was a misunderstanding about that. Hugo de Jonge sent a letter to the Chamber this morning. I'm glad he's taken care of that. I'm glad you can. And yes, I'm very much in favour of a salary increase in health care. It's actually the only sector you've never had to deal with because that sector already grows with average wage developments in the Netherlands through all agreements. This also means that care remains competitive. We always have discussions about education, where this link is less tightly regulated, but care is followed by the development of the labour market. It goes through the Oval Covenant. You can see that it works: 5% increase in the salary of hospitals in the recently concluded collective agreement, 3.5% increase in the vvt as of 1 June, 3% increase in the Ggz as of 1 August, and a 5% increase in the salary of 1 January through a negotiated agreement in the ambulance care sector. So there's a lot of money coming in. But if, apart from that bonus of €1,000 net, which I think is quite right, we are going to do additional things on top of the wage developments in healthcare, which already goes along with the average wage developments in the market through the link with the covenant, then those salaries will rise faster than the average in the Netherlands. What does that do with all other salaries in the Netherlands? They will therefore rise faster. I'm not for that. I think that's too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u292	That's quite a statement from the Prime Minister: what does that achieve? What we are achieving is that we will soon have enough people left who want to work in healthcare. There is already an enormous shortage of staff. The Prime Minister knows that. Thousands and thousands of people are needed. Caregivers suggest to consider what else to do, because they are like a slap in the face of the cabinet that there has been a collapse for caregivers, but that there will be no structural appreciation. That's what it brings us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u293	Why not? There is. I have often used the example of the Buddenbrooks, where the port employee says to the senator: we want a republic. Then the senator says, "You already have a republic." And then the docksman says, "I want another one." In the Netherlands, we have a system in which healthcare salaries grow with market development. We do. That's exactly the power of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u294	I don't know why the Prime Minister now thinks he's putting caregivers away like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u295	You put them away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u296	No, I'm not putting them away at all. You put them away by making a joke about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u297	No, you put them away by saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u298	You put them away by saying, "Well, do you know what has already been agreed in the last collective agreements? Market wages are just being monitored and there's really nothing going on?" I don't know what you're trying to accomplish with this. You then close your eyes to the great and rightful danger that a lot of carers say, "If that's the way it is, I'm going to do something else. I do that with pain in my heart, because I do the job with love." The Prime Minister is ignoring that. I think it is a very bad thing, yes: it is a bad thing that he pretends to be all that, while he knows damn well that we have had a strike in our hospitals very recently for the first time in our national history. The Prime Minister is well aware of that. Prime Minister, it means quite a lot when carers say: it has come to this point that we are going to resign. They don't just do that. They don't do that because it's all as well arranged as the Prime Minister claims. I find it very regrettable that he is putting caregivers away with: I do not know what the problem is; there are all kinds of wage increases agreed? This, while first of all it's not true. Care has been demanding more appreciation for a long time. Two. Healthcare providers now indicate that they are threatening to leave care if it does not get better. Three. The whole of the Netherlands believes that it should not just be applause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u299	It's easy for me. I think it's really populist. Mrs Marijnissen now gives the impression that there are no wage increases in care. There are. Care is growing along with average wage developments in the Netherlands. It's been happening for years. That's decent. That doesn't happen in education; that's all stuff about it every time. That's where I'd get it, because there's not that automatic clutch. That's where you have to look again and again at what the pay space is. But in the care department, this is arranged through a covenant. If you see what those wage increases were... I'd love to personally embrace everyone in care. Personally, I'd like to give them the double salary of what they're getting right now. It's absolutely heroes who do this job. But to give the impression here in the House of Representatives that there are no wage increases... we have to make choices here, in all the scarcity we have. Care is such an important sector for the Netherlands. If we really want to ensure that no one wants to work there anymore, let us give the impression here in particular that Mrs Marijnissen is doing so that there are no wage increases in care. There are. They're awesome, too. I'd love them to be even bigger, but they're just going up with the rest of the Netherlands now. Bringing wages up more is a political choice. Mrs Marijnissen wants them to rise even further up there. It's okay. It's allowed. Everyone can have their own opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u300	It's only populist...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u301	If she does this, I'll ask her to realize that this also requires choices elsewhere. You can only spend the money once. But it is not that there are no wage increases in care. They're heavy. And rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u302	The Prime Minister doesn't have to explain to me that you can only spend the money once. Everyone here knows that. I think we are here to discuss and decide how to spend that money. When the Prime Minister says, "I'd love to hug them all..." I don't know if everyone's waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u303	I don't think so!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u304	But the Prime Minister says: I would love to hug them all and I would love to give them all double wages. I find that easy: to say it and then not to arrange it. Claps, putting beautiful videos on the internet and talking about "heroes in the front line" There are the biggest words that have fallen, but in the meantime do not take the concerns and demands of the people who work in the care seriously. They say, "We have been asking for more appreciation for so long. We deserve it, but we also want to keep the profession attractive for new people who are so badly needed in the future." The Prime Minister is completely ignorant of that. Then he can shout: it's populist! I've been hearing that a lot from the Prime Minister lately. I don't think it has anything to do with populism. The whole of the Netherlands wants this! I haven't spoken to anyone who thinks it should just be applause. Apart from the coalition parties, but even of that we have heard in the first part of the debate that they actually think that wages should be raised. So that's what we're here for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u305	But then it is also a task of our politicians to explain to Dutch people how it works. We now have an economic contraction of at least 6%. We are dealing here with a sector that we all say has played a vital role for the Netherlands. This vital role has been further demonstrated in this crisis. It has rightly been decided a year ago that we should ensure that salaries are increased with what is happening in the market. We will. The collective agreements that are now being concluded also show wage increases of between 3.5% and 5%. Of course you'd want it even higher, but these are massive wage increases. If, on top of what is now going on in market development, you are going to give additional wage increases, then it is inevitable that we agree to do so in other sectors, such as defence and education. That would be a fair question. That is what I call Mrs Marijnissen as a responsible politician. It is also our responsibility as politicians to explain this to the Netherlands, isn't it? We have an economic contraction of 6%. Wage developments in the healthcare sector are linked to the rest of the Netherlands. There are now considerable wage increases. We all think the bonus is right. It costs 800 million. It is right, because there has been a terrible amount of hard work there. But if you say on top of all these massive wage increases that we're going to do something extra, however much we want it all to be, I also think you should say that this means that it's going to go to defence, police and education. That's inevitable. That's what's gonna happen. Mrs Marijnissen will not deny that here. She nods yes. This means that you are not only talking about a significant increase in costs in healthcare, but in all public sectors, at a time when the economy is shrinking by 6%. That's not justified, is it? That's what I think. I'm sorry, we may not agree on that, but that's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u306	No, we don't agree on that. The Prime Minister says that this would not be justified. But what I don't think is responsible is looking away from the big problems in care. Again, a lot of carers indicate: I'm going to do something else if I have to. The problems in care have been there for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u307	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u308	Even before the corona crisis there were. And yes, the Prime Minister is right. It's not just in health care that salaries should be raised. Certainly they need to be raised in education, certainly our police deserve a better appreciation, even more so our entire public sector deserves more appreciation and a better salary. But wasn't it the previous cabinet that, in the previous crisis, cut the public sector down and caused the hits, which caused the people to pay the bill? Let me remind you: closing the nursing homes, more than 70,000 people in care lost their jobs and employees in household care had to turn in a quarter of their salary. Let's not forget that for a second. How wretched is it then that the whole of the Netherlands has collapsed for those people, when we already knew before the crisis how big the problems were in the care, and that the Prime Minister is now saying: yes sorry, but now we are having economic problems, we are getting a shrink and now there is no money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u309	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u310	Come on! You can't get rid of care with that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u311	This is so easy! And it's not true that I'm saying that, is it? I would like to explain, and I think it is fair and fair, that this enormous social appreciation is there for the care: for our nurses, doctors, cleaners and patient transporters, for everyone who has been so visible in recent months. Think about the people in intensive care and what they've been through. I believe that a huge collective respect has grown in the Netherlands for the sector. This has been so huge over the past few months. It is right that you say: we want to reward that extra. And that's what we do, with the bonus. You can see that happening in many countries, and the Netherlands is doing so generously. But Mrs. Marijnissen is asking for something else. She wants an extra wage increase on top of that. I merely outline very simply and factually that wages in care are already rising with what is happening in the market. If you do this, wages will also increase with the police, in education and in other sectors. I'd love to. I also give a higher salary to every police officer and teacher, but in the end it is the job of Mrs Marijnissen and I here to ensure that we keep the country in balance, also in financial terms? You can't promise all that at the same time. Then your public finances are completely out of control. Mrs Marijnissen knows that, too. As a responsible politician, she must take that into account. I can ask her, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u312	We've agreed on six questions. You have seven. You're going over it, but the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u313	Finally, Mr President. The Prime Minister may ask anything, but I think it's an unreal question. He also knows very well that we are here to make political choices. To screen now with "the finances are out of control" and "it can't be done, because then the salaries in other sectors must also be raised"... Yes, it would be a good idea to do so. It would be a good idea if all those people, who we have now, in the corona crisis, defined as working in "crucial professions," now that we see which professions really matter, got some extras. Those people barely got anything out of it when the economy was incredibly good, when the profits were huge, and when the benefits to shareholders were higher. So it is really too easy for the Prime Minister to say now: it is not possible and it is ultimately a matter of making choices. I note that the Prime Minister, like everyone else here, has clapped to the care, but now to the care says: "Find it out, we're going to face an economic recession and there's no money for it now." I think it's really insufferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u314	My objection is that Mrs Marijnissen once again gives the impression that there are no increases in health care. I just explained that and I don't think it's fair. Fair is to paint that. Those raises are considerable, and rightly so. They also fit in with the developments elsewhere. Hospitals get 5%, vvt 3.5%, ggz 3% and 5% negotiating deficit in ambulance care. Mrs Marijnissen now has the impression that there are no such increases. Those are substantial increases, which have been agreed. She wants further increases on top of that. Then I say: it's also making choices in scarcity. This must be done in the other public sectors, at a time when the Dutch economy is shrinking. Right now, we're borrowing over 100 billion to fight the crisis. I only ask her: isn't it fair to paint that whole picture? That's my only question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u315	I never thought we would end up in this crisis so early on. The Prime Minister is actually saying here: sorry, the whole public sector can forget the further wage increases, because the crisis is coming. You see exactly what I warned you about a few weeks ago. In the end, this Prime Minister is just going to make this crisis pay for by ordinary people, by all those people who work in the public sector. Those people in care have indeed earned that wage increase, and so have the people in education. What the Prime Minister is saying now, I hope everyone heard it, is: if you work in education, or in health care, or with the police, sorry, the economy is not doing well and there is no extra money. I find that really unacceptable, I would like to say. He says that Mrs Marijnissen is not looking at what wage increases have been in the care sector. When we look at what's going to happen next year, we see that the budget available for the care, for the wages of these people, goes down through the corona crisis. We see that pension contributions are rising. As a result, we see a de facto zero line emerging in the care sector. We're not gonna accept that, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u316	That's not true. Moreover, it really is a totally unfair representation of the debate so far. I did not say anything about what Mr Klaver is saying here either. I'm finding it easy again. I have said that there are considerable increases in the level of pay in health care. We're all happy about that. They also come from a system we have. But parties that say that they would like to increase wages further up there, I would ask them to outline what that means. This means that wages will continue to rise in other sectors as well. This inevitably affects the choices that we can make in all kinds of other areas: investment in education and in the police, which are not direct labour costs. That doesn't mean I'm saying we're gonna let these people pay for the crisis or this group, or that I'm saying we're not gonna do any more wage increases. I'm not saying that at all. There's something else going on. You, Mr. Klaver, want an extra wage increase on top of what's being agreed now. That's what you're asking. That is all right, but I would like to outline the consequences, because I believe that we, as responsible politicians, should show what the considerations are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u317	I think it is our job, as responsible politicians, to ensure that the people we have said they work in the essential professions are at last getting better in pay. Study by study shows that the difference between the market sector and education and care is too large. That is an important reason why there are shortages there. People eventually leave for other sectors. If we want to catch up with those deficits, this is almost a unique opportunity. It is precisely because wages in the market sector are falling, remain stable or rise less sharply that we could take another step in the public sector, which would bring it closer together and finally solve the deficits that are there. And the Prime Minister then sketches here the idea of 'yes, we may not be able to invest in education'! No, what we may not be able to do is reduce corporate tax and send 2 billion to big business. We may not be able to do that! 100 billion has now been spent and 40 billion of these have been deferred for the biggest companies in the country. And then the Prime Minister says: we have no money for additional wage increases and for increases in health care, education and the police. I think it's really unheard of. What are all those people we have mouths full of, "they're doing such fantastic work" think of us? What are they gonna think of this Prime Minister? They're making extra money. That money's here. The question is not whether we are responsible politicians, but whether we are courageous politicians. Do we have the courage to give these people the raise they deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u318	It would be brave to tell the whole story and Mr Klaver does not. Mr Klaver says here: Rutte is opposed to wage increases in care and wage increases in education. Clover says, "Rutte, is going to pass the crisis on to people who work at the Department of Defense and the police." Total bullshit! There are rightly so at the moment, and I fully support this. That is also necessary, because it is true that we asked a great deal of this kind of sector when the crisis was taking place. It is then right that we should allow wages to rise considerably now that we come out of that crisis and there is room again. That's what I'm all for. Mr. Klaver is asking for something else. He says, on top of that, I want extra room for additional wage increases in care. That may be so, but I would like to remind him that this will not only be confined to care when those wages are already rising considerably over a broad front. Other sectors will then say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say's that we' say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay's'ay Those are the choices you make. That is why I say to Mr Klaver: that is a bit easy when you see that the economy is shrinking considerably. We will find ourselves faced with very difficult considerations in order to prevent it from reaching the common man or woman. We need to do this in a fair way and we need to grow the economy at the same time. With that in mind, it's just easy for me. But it is simply not true that I would be against wage increases and that is what he is saying. I'm very much in favour of wage increases, and we're doing a lot of it. The contradiction he creates is a false one. Really!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u319	The Prime Minister keeps repeating it, and I'm just surprised at that. He says: be careful what you wish for, because if you do it in healthcare, there would also be extra money going to education. All right, let's do it right now! Extra money to the police? Straighten up! It is precisely in this crisis that we should show that we are going to do things differently. We must have learned from the previous crisis, where savings have been made and where the public sector has been put on the line. Now we have to invest extra in all these places and I don't know anyone in the Netherlands who says: well, now that the economy may be slightly less, these people don't deserve this wage increase. Of course they deserve it, and we can afford it. We can afford it! It is about what choices we make, and I am quite clear about that. If we had to impose extra taxes on companies that make a lot of profits, we would do so, because it is more important that these heroes of the public sector get money. But the Prime Minister pretends that we're all crazy and just says, "Beware, if it goes to care, it goes to the police and education too. I hope it goes to those sectors as well. This will be a major battle point this autumn. This is gonna be the big battle point. I can see it happening now: this is going to be the big battle point, which hopefully we can pull together. But if we don't, we're gonna face each other face to face. We are not going to accept that people in the public sector, care and education are not making any extra progress. They deserve it. That is what we have said here and we must finally put butter on the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u320	I agree with Klaver that it is right that salaries should rise in healthcare. That's what's gonna happen. I also agree with him that it is right that people should benefit if things get better after the crisis, a time when you have asked a lot of people in the public sector. There must be money to the people in the police and education. I totally agree with him, but he's asking for something else. On top of that, Mr Klaver is asking for extra money, on top of that, on top of that, which is rightfully substantial increases in wages. I say this in turn: I do not think it is sensible at a time when the economy is shrinking by 6% and when we are investing more than 100 billion dollars in the economy to prevent damage from falling companies, government organisations and the cultural sector. I find it a little easy to give the impression that there is a Prime Minister here who says: I am against wage increases. I'm not against that at all. We are in favour of wage increases and wages are rising too. What he wants is, on top of that, an extra wage increase. We say, "Be wise and increase the wage that has been agreed." And yes, this exceptional effort fits a bonus. That's what we're gonna do, because that's what we have to do. That has been a legitimate request from the Chamber, and it is right that we should do so now. But he's asking for something else. He says, on top of that, I want an extra wage increase. And that's a really different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u321	For next year... the Prime Minister is talking about what wage increases have been made. That's true, they've been there. I think something extra should come up on that, that's right. But it's much worse. Let me outline for the Netherlands what will happen. Wages in the public sector are linked to market developments. This is one-on-one in care, but the reference area in education is also defined in this way. What you're going to see in all these sectors is that we can already see in the healthcare sector that it's going to be much lower than what the expectations were. So the increases we had anticipated are getting much lower. And why is that? This is because market wages are not rising any more. So, yeah, I think something should come up. If we don't intervene, I'll tell the Prime Minister, these people are going backwards. That's what's just the truth. These are the facts that lie ahead, and that is what the Prime Minister is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u322	No, and there's no zero line. Seriously, there's a fake show going on here, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u323	Yeah? Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u324	Finally. If we look at the CPB's estimates, those bags are from 3.4% to 1.4%. We know that pensions are going to rise enormously, towards pension contributions of more than 2%. Then the wage room that there is, in the minus! Then there's no room for anything these people will be left in their pockets. Nada. Nope. Nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u325	That wage area is linked to what the economy does and how it works in the salaries of companies and other public sectors, and with that, wages are also rising, including in the health care sector in the near future. That's how we do it, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u326	I hear the Prime Minister say a number of times that he finds it easy and populist. That means I'm gonna try to do justice to his story. What is advocated here is to do something more than that agreed salary increase, because there are huge deficits in health care, but also in education. Because there is something going on, even more so: as a result of pressure from work, more people are now at risk of leaving care and education than they are. In the care, I can understand that a little bit, when you see what they've been through. So that is quite a good reason, even if you see that our economy depends on our caregivers being able to fight a pandemic, saying: you have to do more and it has to be structural. We all know: that bonus is absolutely beautiful, compliments for it, but if you want it to have an effect on people who choose that course, then of course it's not enough. Then the Prime Minister says, because that's how I heard him, "I would, Mark Rutte, but our economy is shrinking, we already have a huge bill, a hundred billion and 6% shrinking." And that's true. Maybe he can explain in that light why he considers it essential, what he thinks is necessary, more important than that huge problem in the public sector, in order to reduce the tax on profits by EUR 2 billion next year for companies that do make profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u327	For a moment, this is a completely different discussion. The companies in the Netherlands are the place where the money is earned with which we can pay for the care, the police and the education. Three out of four people in the Netherlands work at companies. Own companies or they're employed by companies. That's where the tax bill comes in eventually. If we didn't have those companies, we wouldn't have any worries, we wouldn't have teachers, we wouldn't have the police, we wouldn't have this beautiful country. So we need those companies and that business. What Mr Asscher and I have already made net progress in relation to the crisis and after the crisis, is not the case for companies. They're still in the middle of nowhere. They are still worse than before the crisis, and the only thing we do in the tax measures is for companies to make sure that it does not go away. That's all we do. We are taking that minus away from businesses from before the crisis and from after the crisis, because we want to ensure that those companies remain able to remain a job machine, especially in a crisis like we are in right now, which is touching them terribly hard. I am not concerned about the companies, I am, like Mr Asscher, about the people who work there. They must remain a job machine for 5, 6, 7 million people in the Netherlands who do not work in the government, but in those companies. That's why we do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u328	If Mrs Marijnissen or Mr Klaver had used this argument, the Prime Minister would have said: that is easy, that is populist. He's not telling the whole story, because the Prime Minister's acting like I'm saying here, "let's stop with all these companies, we don't think they're important." That's bullshit. All I asked him to do was to defend in the light of the whole story of these huge deficits why you would want to make an additional reduction in the tax on profits next year. The Prime Minister keeps a story that I can largely follow. I'm thrilled about these jobs. I'm overjoyed with these companies. That's where my voters work, and that's a good thing. But it wasn't about that. Even if you ask those employees what they think is more important, that we are trying to help the people in care, or that we are trying to help the people in education, who teach their children, or that there should be an additional reduction in the tax on profits, which is not at all high in the Netherlands, they say no. Since you're not actually putting that story in the perspective of the crisis we're living in right now, I don't think it's credible that you're saying that there's nothing extra for those care workers. I don't think that's credible. That certainly makes that applause a little cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u329	It's honesty. And the honesty is that we've been saying, in the Cabinets since 2010, that we've been asking a lot of people and companies, the companies that are important again for all the work that is important to the people. We asked a great deal of that, with cuts and increases in costs. At some point, the counter stood at 51 billion. I believe it is, in the end, a net 46 billion. This has led, among other things, to an enormous increase in the burden on citizens in the Netherlands, but also on businesses. At that time we always said: if things are better with the Netherlands, we must at least make sure that there is less of it in relation to the post-crisis crisis. This has now been achieved by the citizens, in the last budget. Not with the companies. With the last load relief that has yet to be implemented, I will ensure that they too end up in a small plus. And why do you do that? Not because of those companies. Yeah, I have a lot of business myself. I think it's great that they're here, because they provide energy, innovations, etc. But in the end, I don't even care about those companies. I care about the people who work there. So if you're gonna keep those companies competitive, especially at a time when they're hit really hard by the crisis, you have to look at the burden. Then it's too easy to say: I'm cutting that tax off against a salary increase somewhere else. You cannot do that, because in the end you will also damage the strength of that company to continue generating those jobs. That's not fair either. The deal was, we're all going back to a little plus in the end. And the companies aren't in a small plus. They're still in the middle of nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u330	The Prime Minister again uses the words "unfair."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u331	I didn't say you weren't being honest. I say that it is fair to go to companies to ensure that they also go to a small plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u332	Yes, but the Prime Minister blames me for confusing things. I think the prime minister's defense was: yes, but it costs money and then you can't spend it on other things. I agree with him. However, in that light, he must defend why he nevertheless considers it more important to implement the tax reduction he promised for these companies next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u333	Not only by me, but also by Mr Asscher. Together we promised in the previous cabinet that we would eventually make sure that where the minions were standing, that would be small pluses again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u334	Mr. Chairman. I was going to ask a question, but I hear the Prime Minister talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u335	Yes, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u336	Mr. Chairman. If the Prime Minister says 'I promised that in good times those companies would get a plus', he is now at least free from that promise, because he has just used as an argument against additional investment in the public sector that our economy is shrinking 6%. I find it much more sporting in all honesty that he says, "No, I don't want that. I think that's more honest." The VVD representative had a very woolly story about how it's not up to us. It's up to us. It's up to us here. The Prime Minister says, "I don't want that. I'll give it to them, but I don't want it." I could follow that, although I still do not agree with it, but then he has to come up with a better argument as to why there must be a reduction in the tax on profits next year. That is not for the companies that are struggling, because they are already supported by 100 billion, but for companies that make profits. So far, I believe that a promise made by him that the companies should be given a bonus does not outweigh the huge shortage of teachers and people in care. Because the protection of our children, of their future, and the people who can tackle such a pandemic, are also essential for our economy and, in my view, more important now than your promise to those companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u337	That was our joint promise. The last two Cabinets did that, and I think it was you and I together for five years. They have said: if there is a crisis and things are getting better, we will ensure that we can turn both the citizens and the businesses that have a strong minus back into a small plus. That is not yet the case for the companies. So one, I don't think it's neat from just honesty that if you've said that and you can, then you won't. And two, it's not wise. You have to make sure that this burden remains a little manageable there too, because it certainly helps in a crisis to keep that job engine running. These are our companies. So that's really not wise and it really compares apples to pears. And I still think it is right that people in health care should have substantial wage increases in their collective agreements this year. That is right, and I very much hope that we can continue to do so. The only debate we have here is whether or not you are on top of that, and that is the question that Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen are asking even more, while the economy is now shrinking by 6%, and you know that it will eventually go to police and education. I give it to everyone, but then we as responsible politicians have to explain to the Netherlands: boys, that has consequences, that is not free, however much we would like it all to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u338	Thank you. We'll wait for the VWS minister to get the floor. Before I give him the floor, I would very much like to know which questions have remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u339	I can imagine that, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that the Prime Minister has just mowed some grass away. So I think I can actually shorten a few things. I want to combine a few questions in a block "ready for the second wave." There are questions about lessons learned, questions about the dashboard, about test and trace, and about the app. I think I can do that pretty clearly in one block. Then come the questions about the bonus. The questions about the more structural side of the salary have actually already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u340	Yes, this has been discussed extensively in the contribution of the Prime Minister, with interruptions by Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. So that has already been discussed extensively and does not need to be discussed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u341	No, the Prime Minister has already, in my view, taken extremely firm account of the structural side of the salary, so I will focus on those few questions about the bonus. Then I'm talking about the vulnerable groups. Then there is something about the temporary law, and then there is another block of varia, the inevitable block of varia. So it is very clear, Mr President, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u342	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u343	Yeah, here we go! Last time we gave a lot of thought to the legitimate question of whether we are ready for the second wave. The answer to that question is, of course, that we must do everything we can to prevent that second wave. That's what the 1.5 meters are about, and that's what it's about to "stay at home if you have any complaints." But then the question was also asked: shouldn't we want to learn all the lessons from the past period? And should we not want to be advised independently by an independent expert? The answer to that question is yes. I have, also in relation to a number of motions, of the Christian Union, of D66, of the SP, of the VVD, and also of Asscher and Marijnissen, indicated how we could do that. Mr Asscher added one question to that today. He asked: is it possible for the Chamber itself to receive the advice we receive in that process? The answer to that question is yes. We ourselves will translate those advices into the lessons we want to learn ourselves for that second wave. That's what we want in the Chamber before 1 September. We will involve a great many independent experts in this process, on many different themes. I put it in the letter. And we would like what they provide us with in paper form, if that is the case, to be sent to the Chamber. So the answer to Mr Asscher's question is yes. The dashboard is now in development and that is also gradually, every few weeks, extended and further refined. It is further refined by adding signal values, it is further refined by adding new indicators, it is further refined by giving a better overview and insight into how that virus spreads. One of the elements that will be added to the dashboard is the sewage water survey. Mrs. Van Brenk asked: isn't it a good idea to do that? The answer is: yes, that is a very good idea. We tried that last month at 29 sewage treatment plants, and I ordered it to be extended to all sewage treatment plants. It's there, I remember, 352. And we will add the results of the test to those 29 installations at the next update. I hope to be more precise and more complete until September in a number of steps. This is how we want to test all the sewage treatment plants every day. The Netherlands is, by the way, the only country in the world where this is done. The Netherlands is also the first country where that has been tried, as far as I know. At least I haven't seen that anywhere yet. The big advantage of this is that you are much earlier to visualize the development of the spread of the virus. The development of hospital beds is often only seen two to two and a half weeks after the infection. The developments in the test streets, if we speed up that process very much, can often only be seen about a week after the infection has occurred. That's eight days, nine days. But in the sewage treatment plants, we're actually already seeing viral particles present from day two after infection, rising up to day five after infection. Of course, this cannot be traced back to individuals and to numbers of people. How to interpret that precisely is really still a question of learning. But it gives us information much earlier; that is one thing that is certain. In short, we are going to expand that and periodically you will see updates of that dashboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u344	I just got off the phone with the Union of Water Councils today to talk about this. It's 323, to be exact. But we had a more specific question. The question was: would this also be possible with nursing homes and nursing homes? That might be possible, but that means that it belongs to the municipalities, because they are about the sewers. They should take the samples. My point is: it would matter if we didn't have to take all kinds of difficult tests, so if you were to take samples specifically from those sewers in those nursing homes, that might be a nice way to measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u345	It's pretty precise. If you take three hundred so many..............................................................................................................'. 'Cause it's kind of expensive to do this, too, of course. You could also do it weekly, but we say "no, we really want to do this every day." Of course, that's much more expensive. That's what RIVM says again "are you sure?'. To be honest, I would venture to doubt whether it could be more precise. This sampling is now being carried out at the sewage treatment plants. What do you know? It says something about the feeding area of those sewage treatment plants. It doesn't say anything about individual homes or individual nursing homes. It's not like that. It says something about the extent of the spread in that area. But we really need to learn exactly what conclusions you can draw. For example, if it has rained very badly, then it also dilutes. So we do not yet know exactly what conclusions we can draw. It is certainly not a substitute for testing in nursing homes, for example. You can't use it like that. It's more predictive than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u346	Perhaps you can come back to that when you have received more information. Mrs Van Brenk does not have a lot of interruptions either. I'm trying to help a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u347	I think this was just a question from Mrs Van Brenn and I answered the question that was asked seamlessly. Thank you for your coaching, but I think this was the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u348	Is that right, Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u349	Mr President, I would, of course, always like more. The point is, it's possible. The Union of Water Councils says: "It could be, but it is then a municipal task. The municipality must then do so." That's different from the water treatment. It's another club and, indeed, it's precious. But at least the question would be: would you consider this? In fact, I think it could avoid a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u350	No, we're gonna take this step. By the way, it costs us 20 million a year. That's a hell of a lot of money. We're gonna take this step. This is the most refined thing we have right now. We're the first in the world to do it. I think this is a huge leap forward. That's what we're gonna do. I would like to inform you of all the progress we are making in this regard. What we do in that is actually very special. We don't even know exactly what conclusions to draw. At least we know we'll get the virus particles in the picture sooner if we do it this way. So I really want to take this step and I'm not going to promise something that I can't see the added value of right now. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Van den Berg asks: what is the planning of this enlargement? What does it look like? The first operational version is expected to be ready by 3 July. We are now, as you know, working with a trial version. The first operational version will be ready on 3 July, with several new indicators, such as the number of positive test results per security region and the trend in them. We also want to do so, because that makes it increasingly possible to intervene at regional level and to avoid the need for major, national, lockdown-like measures. We're gonna play the ball for a little while, and where the virus is picking up again, we're gonna kick it out. In the period after 3 July, I will add more indicators step by step. I actually want the dashboard to be completely finished on September 1st. That also fits well with the date Asscher mentioned in his motion on the lessons we learned on 1 September. This is one of the steps we are taking to clarify our approach. So I actually like 1 September as a date when it's finished. This includes a profit warning, because automating data flows, for example from the GGDs, just takes time. There's a lot of IT systems behind that. Part of it still happens manually and you want to be able to pull it out of the systems fully automatically. This requires all kinds of IT adjustments and you know it: government and ICT is often a rare special combination. Then there's the question of testing and tracing. Those are impressive numbers now. Since June 1st, some 180,000 tests have been conducted by the GGDs at the GGD locations; we have often talked about them. So that is still separate from the reductions in hospitals and laboratories. This is about the test sites: almost 180,000. Of the test results during that period, 1.4% are positive. So that's very low. That's also an indication that you're testing a lot of people. Anyone with complaints can be tested. The waiting time on the phone is now less than a minute; that too goes well. Most people can simply make an appointment quickly and generally receive their test results quickly. Sjaak de Gouw explained this in the technical briefing this morning. We see that things are getting better. The source and contact research is now also being carried out more quickly. In 92% of the cases, the GGD contacted the index patient and made the contact inventory within 24 months of receiving the test result. In doing so, we have not yet complied with the request made in the motion tabled by Mr Veldman last time, namely: make sure that you come up with indicators and targets with the GGD in order to speed up the whole work process. That's work in progress. I will inform you on the next occasion. Mr Veldman, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van den Berg also point out that we know that the number of people tested on the test street is less than the number that could potentially be reported. We could handle it if they did, we're just ready. Only, they don't. The latest research on that point is from the end of May, so I'm not going to go all blind on it. Soon, in the first week of July, there will be a new investigation into the extent to which people are willing to be tested. The latest investigation says that 28% of complaints are willing to be tested. But that is from the end of May, before the test street was accessible to everyone. Anyway, 28% is a long way from what you should want. Now you can imagine that people who go through the disease in very light form and experience almost no symptoms will not report, because they themselves do not find or notice that they are sick. But we also think that a large part of the people are snotting, but is just raised with "a bit heavy and not every snotty think you are sick". That's a nice attitude on its own, just not right now. Now you just have to listen to what the advice is. And the advice is, go get tested if you're snotting, if you're coughing, if you're cold or whatever. If you have any complaints, get tested. That's the message. We're gonna rub that message in the next few days. The radio campaign started last week, next the TV commercials campaign starts. If you turn on the radio or television, open the newspaper, open your twitter account, open your Instagram account, you will get the message: if you have complaints, stay at home and get tested. That is the very first and most effective dam we can throw against a second wave. It's just the best dam we can throw against a second wave. The second thing we are going to do is to see if we can clarify it even further in that approach and get on with it even faster. I told you yesterday what we're gonna do in there. That was the advice of the guidance group that advises us on the deployment of these apps. That advice has actually been more or less taken over by the OMT. That's what I'm talking about. Now let's not wait for the people who come into the picture in the contact investigation until they have complaints. That's what we're doing now. Now we say stay home, just two weeks, and if you develop complaints, you're gonna get tested. But let's get these people tested right away. Maybe twice in a row, but get tested right away. What's the advantage of that? If the results are negative, you won't have to quarantine for that long. Maybe you should test twice for that, not get false negative results, not get faulty negatives. But if you want to shorten that quarantine, you need to start testing faster and find out more quickly if someone has actually been infected as a contact. If the results are positive, you'll also have someone in the picture before. Then you can also do source and contact research with that earlier. And that's how we're getting more and more precise on that virus. That is one of the tightening-ups that we want to investigate further in the coming period. We want to use the RIVM and the GGDs to see how we could decorate it. These are all ways of strengthening and clarifying our current approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u351	There's someone who has a question. That's Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u352	My question is about testing. I was wondering if the minister at the end of his block was about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u353	No. The block itself is about the question: how do we prevent a second wave? That is the overarching theme of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u354	I'm very specific about testing. The Minister just indicated that we are on top of it, but the WHO says: if the results of the tests are less than 10%................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You need to intensify it up there. In the beginning, the results were around 30%. Then you're really doing too little. We didn't have enough tests back then. At least the cabinet insists that we had a different strategy, but I think we just didn't have enough tests. But for now, how does the Minister view the WHO's conclusion that we might be looking in the wrong place if we only test one in 70 positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u355	The positive results of the people who are being tested are 1.4%. We know that not all people are tested for complaints. You say "you're looking for it in the wrong place," but I would rephrase it myself. We know that not everyone who has complaints gets tested. I'd say this is the right thing to do. The positive test results as a ratio of the whole do not go up, but probably even further down. But I don't mind. As far as I'm concerned, those bags can be below 1%. Let's make sure it goes down below 1%, because that means that everyone really gets tested with complaints. Now the contagion rate is low. There's just been a little debate about it. We think 1 in 10,000 is infected right now. That's really very low. By the way, this is a model calculation. You can look at it differently on the other. Every week we pull 1,000 people out of the test lane who have been tested positive. I think it's a little higher by now, but if that 28% is still true, then you could say: we could have gotten four times as much out of that test street, couldn't we? So what we need to do is encourage everyone with complaints: get tested. With complaints, get tested. With complaints, get tested. Endless, to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u356	It is not so much about what I think, but I would like to mention what is at least indicated by the WHO. The question is indeed, and I have also asked it in plenary: how do you look at the place where you test the people who are also positive? How do you make sure you test for that as best you can? Turns out not everyone gets tested. The minister talked about people who have a cough or feel cold and then say: don't be so complicated, just keep walking, don't go straight to the GP and don't call right away. If that's the mindset, we can miss people who have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u357	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u358	Again, that does mean that if you test 70 people, there's one positive. The question is: can that be more targeted, which makes you use the tests better? I also know the capacity is higher, but I was wondering if it could be more efficient and if we could find more people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u359	Two sides. Can we get a better focus? It can be more direct. That's another matter. What I want first is "can it be more complete?" The answer to that question must be "yes." What do I have to do for that? That's just what I'm saying: doing a lot more communication to make sure that everyone is really aware of the idea "Once I get a runny nose, I'm gonna get tested." That's gotta be all the mores, too. For colleagues at work, even in the schools, it's true that when you meet someone, a colleague, with a runny nose, you just say, "Oh, man, what are you doing here?" Go get tested. That's gotta be the mores. Another question is whether you can do it even more specifically. This is just unfocused, you could say, and as complete as possible; anyone with complaints. Can you test more specifically? The answer to that question is yes. I mention the slaughterhouses as one of the examples of which you know: there are many migrant workers. Perhaps the cooling conditions, the working conditions, also play a role: working too close together and having to talk loudly to get your voice out of the machines. These working conditions are a risk factor in themselves. I hope we'll learn more and more from that. That's how we're gonna test more specifically, because you're gonna know better and better where the risk is. That's the other side of the business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u360	I hear the Minister say: it is very important for people with complaints to be tested. Now I hear from industry organisations that the care workers, but also the patients who stay in the care institutions, are not being tested as a matter of priority. Wouldn't it be extremely important to give them priority? It is heard that care workers can only be tested after 48 hours and have to wait 48 hours for the results, while they are working with the most vulnerable people. So couldn't those care workers and the patients who are admitted to the institutions or who live there be tested as a matter of priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u361	That would require a complicated adjustment of logistics, when I actually find something else. I think we agree that it's not okay if it's like you say, which is that you should wait so long. That's why we're sending it. We know by now that these kinds of signals are actually from a few weeks ago. So the signals that I have, at least, are really: if you call, you can visit very often on the same day, at least within 24 hours. If you've been tested, you'll have your rash in the majority of cases within 24 hours. I just mentioned the percentage of 92%. In case of a positive result, not only did the index patient be called within 24 hours, but all contacts were also inventoried. In short, they are already speeding it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u362	It would be very nice if the big problem of being tested too late and getting the results too late was indeed from a few weeks ago. But I have here a press release from the professional organisation NU'91 of 22 June, which is a few days ago, and it calls for priority to be given to the staff and also to the patients who reside in these institutions, because it is still a problem for them to hear from their members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u363	So I really think that we should use enormous speed for everyone, because as long as people are tested later, the possibility of infection is greater. You need to be able to say to everyone "everyone with complaints: stay home and get tested." That test should be done as soon as possible for everyone, so that you can start source and contact research as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u364	I greatly appreciate the Minister's commitment, but I would like to assure the Minister that he will be in contact with that industry organisation or with the GGD...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u365	That's a good one, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u366	...so that actually happens? It seems to be still a problem and I think the Minister wants the same thing, namely that these people will be tested as soon as possible and get the results. If you want to promise, that's all very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u367	Yes. I'd love to. I'm just getting in touch with NOW'91.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u368	How far along are you, so we can watch a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u369	I'm just answering the questions as they're asked. That's tonight's idea, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u370	Because you've indicated six topics, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u371	You gave it to me, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u372	I think it would be a good idea if you answered the questions directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u373	I'm just answering the questions right away. Mrs Marijnissen asks: what is the Minister's reaction to the thesis of Nieuwsuur that more tests in care could have meant killing? I've already responded to that. Look, let's talk about that thesis first. You can never back that up. I just find that kind of conclusion weird. I'm just gonna take a look back at how it went. I remember it very well. I started on March 19, it was on a Thursday, and I called Feike Sijbesma on Sunday. I think he started on Monday. Then we found together that there was such an explosion of scarcity due to the pandemic that raged around the world, that we had to ensure that where this scarcity is, not only on personal protective equipment but also on testing capacity, we took the step forward and see how we could steer that scarcity as quickly as possible. Of course, the government, VWS, has never had any role in testing. They were laboratories that did that and they sought their own contacts: the GGD with the laboratories and hospitals with their own laboratories. It's a whole network of labs. Some of them are commercial ones. These are the laboratories you saw in Nieuwsuur, and some of them are connected to a university. It's a whole network of labs, but VWS was never in there. There was certainly not a national overview of stocks, nor a national overview of how many machines could run production. It all had to be laid out, in no time. That was indeed done in no time, because everyone has been lugging it unbelievably. And VWS has indeed had a coordinating role in this, a steering role to get that test capacity in order as quickly as possible. On April 6th we said that it was very fast: we want all healthcare workers to be tested. That was a job the G.D.D.s had to kick out of the ground in a week. That certainly did not go smoothly, I am not going to say, but I am going to say that there has been an incredibly hard work to get that off the ground. If then some laboratories say 'we could have tested more then', I think: yes, I did get those signals back then, but every time we asked for them, we also asked for how long they had stock in the market at that time. The answer was then a few days or sometimes a few weeks. We couldn't do anything with that in relation to a stable supply. Every step we took, we had the sweat on our backs: what if we can't live up to it later? Then I have taken that step to say that we can test all the employees in the care, but within a few weeks those machines will stop again because the supplies have not been delivered. That's actually what happened all the time. The whole time we've been taking steps that have been very exciting and that you would never put in a normal situation. But because we had to, and because we felt that more had to be tested, we took those steps. That's how it happened. So I do not agree with the conclusion that there had been best capacity, but that no use has been made of it. No, not at all. We have created that overview in no time and we have taken very exciting steps in that development time and time again. Mr Asscher asked whether the Minister in the BCO, the source and contact research at the GGDs, could agree with the GGDs, so I have at least heard his question about how to hold on to the people who are now being trained but for whom there is not really work. I'd like to think along with the G.D.D.'s. By the way, it is also good news that you can ask that question. This means that the level of infection is so low that, even if you test a lot and bring out so few positive tested people, we are training the army we were training to do source and contact research with all those positively tested people, at least for now we are training for not too much work for the time being. Well, that's in itself good news when it comes to the spread of the virus, but when it comes to controlling those people, of course, it's a little clumsy. We have to make sure that we hold on to the people we train. I'd like to talk to the G.D.D.'s about that. Then I come to the app, also in terms of preventing the second wave. Some questions have been asked about that app. We've developed it in a number of steps. You remember there was an OMT recommendation. I believe that the OMT opinion recommended 6 April 2020: make sure you support the source and contact research with an app, because this will make the source and contact research more effective. On 7 April 2020, the cabinet decided to do so, first by looking at what apps exist in the market. You have been given all this, because we have done so in public. For reasons of privacy, we didn't come up with anything that we were excited about, not for reasons of applicability, nor for many other reasons. Then we said, "We'll build the app ourselves." We have attracted the best and the brightest in appbouwersland, combined from the market and from the government. That has become one construction team and that has really done a fantastic job, also internationally. A lot has been built together, for example with Germany, which is a little earlier with the introduction than with the Netherlands. We took a little more time to do all kinds of security checks. The check was done at the D.O.D. Test Center. The test in practice for user experiences will start in Twente on 1 July 2020. We are all going to learn from that and then hopefully we will come to the outcome in mid-July, on the basis of which we can make a decision. We do this not only on the basis of the user test and the technical test at the Department of Defense, but on the basis of all kinds of other checks we will do, including a PIA, a very ugly word for a privacy impact assessment. Based on this, the AP will assess whether the privacy requirements are entirely in place. In addition, we will have a pen test done by Fox IT to see if the app can really be hacked in any way. We're gonna take our time. Only when all the results of all these tests are on the table and when we can weigh them all, will we decide how we want to implement them. I think that could be mid-July. About every step we take, I'll inform the Chamber again. That was your motion: make sure we can be informed, make sure we can talk about it and make sure you don't take irreversible steps before the Chamber can talk about it. Well, the Chamber has been able to talk about it at about six, seven times. Every time we take the steps we take and then you talk about it. That's how we keep doing it. That seems to me to be a very good order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u374	Now it seems as if the Minister says: there were all apps and variants, you talked about them, so the Chamber was able to talk about them. We want to talk, of course, about the app that the cabinet would like to introduce. And the Chamber has the final say. Now it is the case that the Chamber will be recessed. Does the Minister say here: we are all taking preparatory steps and you will be informed, but we are not going to enter the app until the Chamber is back and has actually been able to say yes or no? Or does the Minister say here: I'll just go on with it in the summer and you'll get a note from me about what we're doing? It is not then possible for the Chamber to take a decision on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u375	I think the Chamber can really speak out at any time. That is what the Chamber has done, by the way. You are an example of it yourself. You've spoken out. I've informed you again and again. It is not the case that a formal decision of the Chamber is needed in order to implement it. That's not true. It is true that your Chamber will, of course, be informed at every step so that your Chamber can use the instruments at its disposal. It can discuss this with me, or hold a written round: all these procedures and possibilities are available to the Chamber. What I have to do is to inform the Chamber every step of the way, so that you can weigh up what you choose. I don't know where we stand in the middle of July. I don't know. At least I want to make sure that we have done all the checks before we can make an introduction decision. That's what I'm sure of. That's what I wrote to you. I've described all those checks. If we take that decision, I would then, of course, like to inform your Chamber immediately. You think that I will take that decision on 15 July and that it was suddenly introduced on 16 July? I think it's gonna be a little more complicated than that. But I hope to keep it going a little bit, also because all kinds of countries around us already have such an app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u376	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u377	We want to be able to re-introduce from abroad after the holiday, of course, for that second wave. This is an important part in addition to the source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u378	The Chamber has no formal role, but it has said to the government by motion: no irreversible steps until the Chamber has given its opinion. That motion has been passed. If the cabinet informs us, we can exchange views in writing in the summer, but if it nevertheless ends up with "a Chamber statement must be delivered and that must be a motion', then the minister should simply wait until the Chamber has been able to make that decision. We can't predict that right now. We don't know what that app is like, we don't know how the written consultation is going to go. I'm sure I'd like to warn the Minister that without the green light of the Chamber, it's just not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u379	Let's not get ahead of ourselves, let's just take it one step at a time. I always have. I've made every step known to you. Each time you have had the conversation with me and every time you have sought the debate with me. That makes sense, too. We're gonna do all the checks the Chamber says are wise. I do not expect that a day after 15 July will be possible. There's a whole public campaign coming up. It's all just gonna take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u380	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u381	I have a few more questions about that app, including Mr Jetten's question. The Tax Administration as a partner of VWS: does VWS still manage it? The IRS just has some really nice stuff. That's kind of the point. They have the most beautiful data center that this data exchange can handle best. That's about the numbers that exchange phones. They may be consulted a few million times a day, so large amounts of downloads and consultations need to be processed at the same time. Actually, only the Tax Office data center can do that. So we want their stuff most of all. For the rest, we just keep sending it on ourselves. "Having" sounds so greedy, but "borrowing" or "using" I mean. We'd like to. That was the last question about the apps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u382	The Minister has just replied in detail about how we want to prevent a second wave, or how we want to test and trace in the best possible way if that wave does occur. Of course, that's super important. But you also hope that there will be a moment when we have a vaccine or a medicine. I have a question about that. Recently, it came to the news that researchers from Utrecht University and Erasmus University think they have developed a very promising drug based on a promising antibody. The cabinet has decided to invest in it. It is good that we support Dutch science in this. An American pharmaceutical company has now bought exclusive rights to the development of that medicine, while we have said several times in the Chamber that we want to produce precisely those medicines and corona vaccines in Europe as much as possible. My question to the Minister is as follows. Was he aware that this promising development of Erasmus University and Utrecht University was purchased by an American pharmaceutical company?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u383	Well, not until later. It was a little different, too. It was still really in a pre-stage. So the coverage wasn't entirely accurate. It is true that we have made this development possible, as we often do. We really want to do that very consciously. What you normally do is make money available for basic research, applied research, so all kinds of research, often via ZonMw, sometimes through other money flows and sometimes through European money flows. Actually, as a government, you're not going to go after that very much, because then the outcome is that you do it because you really want to use it. But in this case, we do. You have read in the letter that we have set up an expert panel that monitors all the promising innovative treatments for us, with great beautiful members in it who are also really in the capillaries of the scientific world and who advise us on what is likely enough to give us a push. In this case, I was approached by the professor himself who asked for money, so that he could make a development possible faster. We just gave him that money. At the beginning of the crisis that went very ad hoc, but now we are going to structure it a little more. I can assure you that I will inform you of the latest state of this innovative treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u384	I would like that very much, because the cabinet has invested €300,000 in this possible drug. It is then bought by an American pharmaceutical company. My follow-up question is: have we agreed that if it is produced in America, it will actually be available for the Dutch market? We now see that US President Trump has imposed on other American drug manufacturers that only a limited amount of these medicines can be sent to other countries. Surely it cannot be that an invention by two Dutch universities, in which €300,000 of Dutch taxpayers' money was invested, would then end up in American hands and would not be available for the Dutch market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u385	That's right. It can't be, and it can't be. This has simply to do with the general terms used by the NFU, the Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres. This includes Erasmus University and Utrecht University. With internal directives, business is done. Often a pharmaceutical is needed to scale up the production, which is also logical, because that is the work of pharmaceutical companies, but under all kinds of requirements that also ensure that the public remains accessible and therefore also available to the Dutch market. But I'll inform you about that in full precision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u386	Thank you to the Minister for informing us more about this. There are also a number of written questions on this point. I would therefore like to have a reflection on the motions by Marijnissen and Heerma that were adopted earlier on the production of medicines in Europe. Because if this is apparently the normal course of action, how are we going to prevent it in the future in the event of similar promising developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u387	Quite rightly, quite rightly. I've been working on all these vaccine negotiations every day. Then you actually see the exact same movement. Pharmacy is a major international industry. You can see some cultural differences in how accessibility and accessibility are looked at as well as production facilities. That is why I myself stepped forward in this vaccine development, together with Jens Spahn, but also with France and Italy. We have our own production facility in the Netherlands, but we saw that there were all kinds of geopolitical movements, including in terms of contracting and recording our production facility. At the speed of this, the Commission did notice something. At that time, I thought, "We're just four of us taking the step forward in Europe." Fortunately, that has been accelerating. That is why we are now negotiating in conjunction with the European Commission, precisely in order to avoid, as you said, that by not operating quickly enough, you will be standing in the back of the queue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u388	There's something else about the corona app. The last time it went wrong, among other things, because of the assessment of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. A lot of people were worried about privacy. We have also heard a number of specialists here. Now the Minister says he will also take the opinion of the Personal Data Authority with him on 15 July. Do I understand that the tests that are being carried out have not yet been properly taken into account? How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u389	It didn't go wrong last time, it went well. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has looked into whether it complied with the privacy standards. The answer was just "no." That meant that we couldn't buy an app from the market, but had to build one ourselves. The apps that were on the market then, by the way, all worked with a central database. A number of countries have also introduced them. England and Norway, for example, have done so. Many of the countries have now stopped doing so again, because they are starting to worry about whether the privacy requirements are being properly implemented. What really works is that what you see in European countries is that total decentralised storage that is completely anonymous and that is only about the exchange of numbers and not of location data. That's actually the only thing that really works. You could say that's privacy by design. It takes it into account right from the start, but nevertheless requires a privacy impact assessment, which will then be submitted to the Personal Data Authority, which will then review it. That's just the check we built in. In addition, there is a check built in from Fox-IT, which just pricks to see if they can get in somewhere and if there could be any leakage in it, or whatever. We'll do all those checks before we make a final decision. And that's what I promised you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u390	I want to keep it very simple: can the Minister send the question he asked the Personal Data Authority to the Chamber? Is that how he's gonna let you know exactly what he's been asking for? And if the opinion of the Personal Data Authority is in, can he share it with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u391	Yes. You already know what I asked. Because I've already told you that before. If the judgment is in, you will of course be informed. We will inform you about all steps. Everything's completely public. We will inform you of everything. And yes, this too will just get you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u392	Okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u393	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u394	(NL) Mr President, I think that the second wave has been mentioned. We're going to the bonuses. A lot has already been said about this, so I think I can be brief. I shall begin by mentioning Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group, who has tabled the motion for a resolution in honour of whom credit is due. That motion is then widely supported by the entire Chamber. The whole Chamber wanted that bonus to come, and so did the cabinet. It was complicated puzzles, I have to say. All 38 variants that have left the table again, I will spare you. It was not so easy to shape it, but we have determined with conviction the design that has chosen, in order to do as much justice as possible to this motion. That is precisely that focus with a focus on nurses, caregivers, helpers and support staff. That's right. We didn't focus on the highest incomes in care for a while, but just on the nurses and the caregivers and the helpers. We've been talking a long time about how to define that group. Of course, we want the money to benefit the people who have worked in front of the snot in recent months. It must be for the benefit of those who, in this unprecedented crisis, have just taken a step forward, lifted their sleeves and started to work. That's what it's for. That's what the motion was meant to do. That is how your Chamber's appeal was intended, and that is how we set up the arrangement. In the direction of Mr Klaver, I say that we did not say: the employer must see who is most qualified for this. We did talk to social partners. So we have done the reconnaissance, but we want to make that assessment on our own. Otherwise, you'll get what you're saying, which is that you'll leave it to the employer. So we make the definition, but we cannot see from The Hague, with our knees under the desk, who falls within that definition or to whom the definition applies. It's gonna have to be an employer. That employer then applies for a subsidy for the number of people who meet this requirement. This enables the employer to transfer the €1,000. This requires a set-up of the scheme and the point of contact. We'll work on that in the summer months. We hope that the window will open on 1 October. Then I come to the whole discussion about net payments and stuff. There has already been a lot of discussion with Mr Van Huffelen when it comes to allowances and overtime. She explained what that was about. We would have wanted to, but it's just not possible, because you can't see which part of the taxable income is related to overtime. You can't make a justified distinction in that either. You can't make a legally sustainable distinction, I might have to put it that way. I think it would be justified, but you cannot make a legally sustainable distinction between one profession and another. That's not possible. You can't make an exception to the surcharges. But just because we knew this couldn't be done, we took that into account when designing this bonus. This bonus is completely outside the surcharges, so this is just net and has nothing to do with surcharges. That's a good thing, because that's how you want it and that's how we wanted it. Do you need to broaden the scope? I say this in the direction of Mr Klaver. We think we've made it really wide. We believe that some 800 000 people out of 1.2 million will be eligible for this bonus. These must be people who have cared for corona patients themselves. These must be people in care who, for example, have had to deal with a visitor scheme, have been in transport or have been cleaning up. So these are people who have had to deal directly or indirectly with these unprecedented circumstances over the past few months. It is not compensation for overtime, but recognition, appreciation, a token of gratitude towards people who have had to deal with corona care. It's a little less logical to allow dental practice to be considered, because it's just been closed in recent times. It is less logical to allow the people of the eye department to be eligible within a hospital, unless they have helped in, for example, the nursing department or the ic's. If they've jumped in, they'll be eligible. That's the point. We cannot see that from here. That is why we deliberately make the definition broad, and then we ask employers: name the people who are eligible, within this definition. Mr President, that was the section on the bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u395	A brief question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u396	I have a very short question. We have looked at this ourselves. I look at doctors' assistants, pharmacists' assistants, labs, secretaries, cleaners, facility staff, surgical assistants, maternity nurses. I'll be looking at 1.1 million people. 800,000 people have been allocated money. So the question is real: is this a maximum, or is there a budget if it turns out that there are more people who would actually be entitled to this bonus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u397	It's an assessment we've made. We do think we've made up for that judgment. Of course, we've been able to think about it for a while. It could be a little higher. This is the assessment we have made, but we will ask employers to do something about a plausibility check at the front. So let's say you run an institution, grab it, kids care, and you let all your 1,000 employees qualify for it, then that's special. In youth care, it is not the case that your entire institution has had to do with corona care or with corona-related activities, including the lady of the administration. That would be a little special, wouldn't it? So we'll do a plausibility check at the front. We clearly define who it is, namely the employees in care who have had to deal with corona patients, or who have indirectly had to do extra work related to corona. That is the broad definition we have chosen. We did come to a rather large sum at that time, and that is the budgetary assessment. It is not a ceiling, but it is the budgetary assessment we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u398	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u399	Then I'm going back to the next block: the vulnerable people. I'll go straight to the questions. Complys with the policy of nursing homes, asks Mrs Van Brenk. Are they prepared for that second wave? Last time we received a motion from D66 and SP to talk to the nursing homes about what they need to really be prepared for that second wave. That conversation's going on right now. On the basis of that motion, I also undertook to inform you of this before the summer, at least for when I would like to start the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u400	That's next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u401	It's not quite gonna work before the summer. I don't know if I can do that at all for your summer recess, but at least on the threshold of summer vacation, let's say. So those classes are coming up. Then that will be part of the lessons we will articulate before 1 September, but for the nursing homes we wanted to do that a bit faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u402	A very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u403	Yes, I have a very short, clarifying question. Will all the lessons be on the verge of your summer, or will we then come up with the idea of how we're going to draw those lessons?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u404	These are real lessons for the nursing homes. We made the request a week and a half ago, following your motion. Then there have been a number of conversations. In the coming period we will continue a number of conversations as well. These lessons are mainly about what we can learn from, for example, how the cohort care is organised. A number of institutions have really learned a lot about this in the past period. With others, it's been a real struggle. Then what can we learn from each other? What does this mean, for example, for the need for support for nursing homes? We want to answer those kinds of questions together, but that is not separate from the lessons we have to articulate for the second wave anyway. At least we wanted to do this, because we didn't want to waste time for the nursing homes to really learn those lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u405	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u406	Then there are Mrs Van Brenn's questions about the carers. No, I have to do it differently. Some of you have asked questions about the visitor scheme. That is a precarious balance. I would like to point out once again that this is indeed a delicate balance. If you look at the rate of contagion now, you can't say that the level of contagion in general is a reason to restrict visitors at this time in the nursing homes. Of course, that 1.5 meters remains valid, but you can no longer agree on a general visit restrictive arrangement for the whole of the Netherlands. There's no ground for that. I want to be clear about this and therefore I encourage nursing homes to take the space that is used to allowing visitors again. But I also think we should all be aware of those nursing homes where the scare is still on our feet. Those nursing homes say, "Yes, but my staff have been walking on his gums for months, and now they really need a couple of them on vacation. A visitation scheme will cost me a lot of staff if the door is open all day and I have to make sure that it is managed by a check on people who have complaints and by maintaining that 1.5 meters a little bit. Mind if I think about how I'm gonna shape that? Can I talk to my client council about that?" I think it's fair to have an eye for that, too. So that balance is always there. Mrs Van den Brenn asks who can contact carers if the visitation scheme is not maintained. In the end, of course, that is the inspection. Besides, I'd just have the normal conversation first, because that's kind of nice. Right? That has to be done first and then the IGJ's National Contact Point will be the point where you can get rid of this type of complaints. The IGJ will also maintain when they see multiple notifications coming in. "Handhaven" sounds way too strict, because it's just a reason for the inspection to stop by and see what's going on and why it's obviously so complicated. That's what's gonna happen. I myself have received a number of specific signals myself, and I will simply pass them on to the inspection. He'll just check it out. Mrs van den Berg had a question about concrete handles and clarity for people with disabilities. Can she get a feedback from these consultations? Yes. I very much share the importance of identifying with the representatives of the target group what is necessary to return to normal life as soon as possible, you might say. The importance of unambiguous and comprehensible communication is in line with the strategy previously drawn up, which was sent to the Chamber on 3 June. It is also in line with, I believe, Mrs van den Berg's motion, which was previously adopted by the Chamber. The first development of this motion follows after the summer, but at the moment all kinds of discussions are already taking place in order to shape it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u407	The Minister indicated that it would be after the summer, but I also mentioned a number of examples, such as someone who was not allowed to take his scooter and children who could not be transported. Is that something the Minister thinks is going to find a solution for in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u408	Oh, yeah. We're not gonna wait on that. No, we're certainly not gonna wait and see what can be resolved in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u409	I would like to come back to the issue of nursing homes. I get stories in my mailbox and even in my mailbox about very poignant situations. On the one hand, I understand why the Minister says that we have to respect the nursing homes, because they still have the scare in their legs and the staff need some space. On the other hand, people can eventually go to the inspection. I find the latter very unsatisfactory. It just can't be the intention that you as a dear son or daughter should go to the inspection to be able to visit your loved one in the nursing home. I still notice fear in the nursing homes. I try to understand it, but I also find it a very difficult consideration, because I see that there is a great loss, both with the family and with the person in the nursing home. Can there not be a call from the Ministry, from this room and from the nursing home sector itself with the message "people get to work and see what can be done"? I have tabled a motion to support nursing homes with good hygiene. I know that there has been another debate in which this has been discussed in the last week. Can't there be more? Isn't there something between the nursing homes where the scare is still in the legs and finally the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u410	Yeah, there's a lot in between. Don't get me wrong! I am completely on the side of everyone who says: given the current level of contamination, there is simply no reason, no basis, to restrict the visit in a generic sense. Not anymore! That reason has lapsed and visitors should therefore be possible again. People need to be able to get back out there and the contact with the next of kin needs to be restored. That's what it takes now. So the call is: nursing homes, get that space, because it's there. If you look at the current contagion rate, that space is there. Get that space. That was my call yesterday at the press conference. Very conscious, even in that way. But I also say very consciously after it: think also of the nursing homes themselves, which really still have the scare in their legs. Eventually, almost 1,000 locations had to do with that virus. If you look at the rate of infection, in the last month, only 46 of the 2,400 locations have had the virus in their homes. That is much lower, but because so many nursing homes have experienced it, I think it is logical that people still have that fear. I don't like the juridication. I do not like the fierceness and the harshness with which I see that we are now facing each other. I want us to understand with each other as a society how difficult the nursing homes are, while we do say what the goal should be: just to visit again, just to restore contact with relatives, but also to understand nursing homes that need an extra week to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u411	I really try to show people who report to me what they can do when they hear from a nursing home that visit is only allowed once or twice a week and that there is an employee there, to make sure that one keeps 1.5 meters away. Let us at least say to each other that it is not the intention. Let's re-introduce some privacy in the nursing home. Perhaps we should also make it clear to people where they can report, that the inspection is really the last resort, but that there is also a client council or perhaps a trusted person in the nursing home, who they can contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u412	Yes. We are also trying to communicate about this as well as possible. I agree with you: there is a hand-out, there are all kinds of support options. Dignity and pride on location, a very large team that visits nursing homes that find it complicated and that comes to help in a very concrete way. There are incredibly many things we do, but Mrs Van Brenk's question was: in the end, if you really can't get through it, who can you contact? And that is the inspection, because it has to ensure that people's rights are respected. Then the emergency law, at least it is called "emergency law" by some. It is sometimes referred to as 'poverty law', but in fact it is just the temporary law, and the Prime Minister has already said a number of things about it. Actually, the first thing we have to say about it is that that law isn't there yet. It hasn't been established in the first place, but the law hasn't ended up in your Chamber at all, because that law is still in the making. What's up is a consultation version. Of course, we often publish a consultation version when legislation is made. Then the parties react and you say "thank you for thinking along, we'll get to work on that." That's what happened here. By the way, it has not gone quite sober with which I say it now, because if you see the reactions in your mailbox probably, but at least also in mine, on social media and at a single demonstration here and there I think: boys, boys, boys, so much fuss about a law that still needs to be made, which has yet to be dealt with and which is not exactly what people sometimes think he has. He is not concerned at all with the powers of the cabinet. The powers of the cabinet have proved to be more than sufficient, even in recent months, to do those things that are needed. These are simply powers given by the Chamber to the Cabinet when the Public Health Act was adopted. The purpose of the new law is precisely to restore normal administrative relations, which also involves restoring normal democratic control over measures taken by the cabinet. The reason for this was the Van der Staaij/Jetten motion, which asked: will we not even ask the Council of State for information? We have, of course, used this information from the Council of State to draw up the legislative proposal. On the basis of the consultation, the bill has been amended. The draft legislative proposal has gone to the Council of State, the Council of State has recommended sensible opinions, which we are processing and then it comes to a decision in the Council of Ministers and then there is a draft law. Then. And then it goes to your room and you're probably gonna talk about it. You set the pace, so that's how we're supposed to do it. That is actually just a fairly normal legislative process. Mr Jetten says that there is a need for support. Well, that would have made sense to us. There is room for improvement, for the time being, but I honestly believe that this can only be done when the law is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u413	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u414	And it's not here yet. That also makes it complicated to answer all kinds of questions now. I'd say, why don't we just do that when the law comes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u415	Okay, yeah. Next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u416	Well, good, then we just agree, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u417	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u418	Then we'll continue with the varia, again. That's how fast it can be, Mr. Chairman. Yes, you're in a hurry. You were just in less of a hurry, by the way. You're always in a hurry when I'm talking. That's special.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u419	I'm not in a hurry at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u420	Well, you're starting to interrupt me when I've said three sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u421	I always like to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u422	Here we go, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take a long time for the varia cube. The ventilation. Mrs Van den Berg would very much like to know everything about ventilation. I've got everything here, so it could be a late night. Seriously. The ventilation. What is the state of play for citizens, was the question, all the more so because the European RIVM, the ECDC, advises to hold a meeting only in the case of good ventilation. That is the starting point. Concrete handles for citizens have been on the RIVM website since yesterday. That was also reported in the letter of inquiry. That's one. Two is: good ventilation has always been important. That is why it has long been included in the RIVM directives and in the Building Decision. The RIVM indicates that normal ventilation requirements should be applied and that no new installations need to be purchased with regard to COVID-19. However, as a precautionary measure, the use of loose fans in the common areas is not recommended. However, in nursing homes, for example, it may become so hot that separate fans are needed to prevent residents from experiencing severe adverse effects of this heat. The advice is: in the own room it is fine anyway and in common areas it is possible. If there's any other way, for example by air conditioning, it's preferable. If there's no other way, just think about how you aim the fan. That's actually the short version of a pretty long story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u423	I've always learned: better safe than sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u424	There's a tile in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u425	That's a tile. Last night's Minister's letter, as well as previous letters, says each time: the precise effects of aerosols are not yet sufficiently known, but you do not need to take measures with ventilation. On the other hand, it is pointed out that the Building Decision is still sufficient. I know that the citizen is supposed to know the law, but the average citizen in the Netherlands does not know the Building Decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u426	You're underestimating the average citizen, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u427	I have here the document...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u428	You do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u429	...of the RIVM and also the previous document, but when I ask for handles and options for nursing homes... And I know, they're details, but Mr. Van Dissel said, for example, you shouldn't use swivel fans, because they increase the risk. I therefore hope that there will be very clear guidelines for nursing homes, in the same way that the Minister is campaigning for sneeze in your elbow, keeping your distance and washing your hands. I hope that this will also make it clear what you should and should not do with ventilation. Because if it's really better that we all open the window twice a day for half an hour, if that helps, then we better know in time, before the r is in the month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u430	It's actually a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u431	Yes. In what RIVM has now worked out, it says, and that seems crystal clear to me: "Because of SARS-CoV-2, it is advised to only use fans in common areas if no other cooling is possible, such as by well maintained air conditioning. However, care must be taken to ensure that the air flow of the fan does not go directly from one person to another." In short, in your own room it is fine anyway. In a common room it is better not if you have something else, but if the temperature rises very much, do it mostly. Then don't let the thing swirl, but fasten it for a moment and point it in the right direction. Actually, the advice is just: use your common sense when using a fan. Well, that sounds like a sensible advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u432	I know I'm pushing on this. Perhaps the Minister finds that downright annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u433	No, no. Of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u434	No, it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u435	I am concerned that 70% of the people in this country have MBO training at most. I would just like to point out that I do not think that the wording on the RIVM website is very friendly to the citizen. That is what I am asking the Minister to do, to communicate it more clearly and clearly and in an easy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u436	I get it, and I'm definitely gonna take it with me. I'm sure I understand that. I will also convey that message to RIVM. What I want to avoid is that you ask the Minister to tell us how people should aim their fans. That's gonna be such a level of detail. It's kind of nice when people just keep thinking for themselves, right? That's a bit of my hesitation with an overly detailed approach from the department for how to use your swivel fan. I'm just gonna send a message to RIVM and they're gonna ask if they could make a miffy version of a pretty thorough action advice. Then the question whether the nursing homes are sufficiently prepared for a heat wave, also in relation to the National Heat Plan. Last time I said that the whole heat plan does not necessarily need to be changed. "The heat plan," which also assumes that there is a massive plan. It's always not that bad. There are actually quite healthy provisions in it: drink enough, make sure you don't get overheated and so on. What's added to this is that story about how to use those fans. If you do that in your own room, there's nothing wrong, but cool a common room by something else and if you need a fan, it'll aim just as well. That's actually what's been added to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u437	Speaking of details... sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u438	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of VWS is considered...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u439	...to know everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u440	Yeah, to know everything. So that's what we're doing. Then the vaccines. Mrs Dik-Faber asks if I can indicate our solidarity with other countries. Yeah, that's the answer. We have now made a substantial contribution to CEPI. That is the international organisation that provides vaccines, including for vulnerable countries. We've contributed quite a bit to GAVI. Next weekend there will be a pledging event, as it is called in this world, in which our Prime Minister will pledge extra money on behalf of the Netherlands. In the vaccine alliance we started with Germany, Italy and France, we also indicated that we want it not only for the European continent but also for vulnerable countries. So we are already contributing a great deal to that. Take the contract with AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca already has a contract with CEPI for vulnerable countries. We have contributed financially to this. They even had that contract before we did. In short, we are making a full contribution. Because it's just true that we're not safe with each other until we're completely safe, safe all over the world, when vulnerable countries are safe too. At the moment there are 170,000, 180,000 new infections a day and that is really a highlight in the pandemic. We think that is very crazy, that we have had it a little bit, that it is over and that we have done the worst. I also hope we've done the worst, but the world hasn't finished the worst. It's actually at its peak now when it comes to new infections a day. And we don't live on an island. It's golfing all over the world. That is why, in the end, we will only be safe if everyone is safe, and that is why the vaccine must be made available to everyone. Then the slaughterhouses. In my opinion, Mrs Ouwehand has always drawn attention to this since the first debate I had. It is extremely consistent in this and has asked for a national approach. I think that motion was passed. In dealing with this motion, I think I said that is what we are doing. We have a nationwide approach. From The Hague we give the indication to all safety regions to work with these slaughterhouses. That is the national approach, but of course it had to be further developed. On the basis of this motion, we have asked for an impact. That effect, I believe, came in yesterday and will be dealt with next week. In any case, the effect implies intensified testing of these slaughterhouses. Not everyone is being tested; I explained that last time, because that is a huge burden on the GGDs. So they do do that on a random basis. That makes sense to me. But it's not just that. You can't just ask the GGDs: solve these problems in those slaughterhouses for a moment. It is also necessary to intervene when slaughterhouses press their moustaches, for example, in compliance with rules. Regular inspections, e.g. the NVWA and the SZW inspection, must also do what they are doing on earth in those slaughterhouses. In short, we have a real job to do with each other there. And furthermore, a whole chapter is coming from around migrant workers. This applies not only to slaughterhouses, because we know that it also applies in other sectors, for example in agriculture and horticulture. So there too we actually have to operate in the same way. Then we said: let us do it a little more intelligently than developing an approach for slaughterhouses, an approach for fruit production, an approach for greenhouse horticulture, an approach for all those other sectors. So we have said: let us develop one approach for this type of sector, where people work a lot with migrant workers. That is actually exactly what is requested in your motion. An additional circumstance in slaughterhouses is, of course, caused by the indoor climatological circumstance. In short, this approach has been worked out, with the inspections, with the security regions Ton Heerts has done a great job there and with the GGDs. The approach came our way last night and, frankly, I have not yet found time to deal with it. He'll be treated at the beginning of next week, and I think he'll be in the sub-committee next week. If that leads to news, I will inform you about it. I think I have one more question to answer on this point, namely the one about the speed of the band. The tire speed. That is also the issue of the VWS Minister. That motion is dedicated to the Minister of LNV. The cabinet is examining on the basis of which legal basis the structural reduction of the speed of slaughter can be ordered. In some places, the slaughterhouses themselves have already decided to reduce the tyre speed, for example, because there may be fewer staff on the belt to keep the 1.5 metres. That has consequences for how much you could slaughter. Here too, what I have just explained about this country's direction is true: that will be taken up next week in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u441	The VWS minister just said he knows all the details. So I actually want to ask him, how many animals are going through that slaughterhouse every hour? Because on Tuesday, the Chamber adopted a motion stating that it would immediately reduce the rate of slaughter. That had to be done, because of the possibility of monitoring animal welfare and food safety. And the unions have been asking for weeks, months to protect the people. So how high was it and how high is it now, my question would be to the minister. And then the national direction. The Minister says here: yes, I did see that motion, but we already did. The Chamber didn't think that was convincing, so she passed that motion. At the time, we also pointed out the differences between the security regions. In Boxtel, the chairman of the security region had some reasoning about which RIVM said at the time: yes, but we distance ourselves from it. And this morning RIVM said in the briefing: I would put an end to that situation. We've always listened to RIVM, so why doesn't this minister shut down that slaughterhouse in Boxtel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u442	We need to separate a few things. One. That plan of action was made right in response to your motion. It was said at the time: take national direction. I have said that: I am already doing so, because I am giving instructions to the security regions, so I am already taking national direction. But the exact enforcement at such a location was, of course, invested with the chairman of the security region. Why? Because I can't see from The Hague what's going on in those slaughterhouses. I can't see that. But neither can the chairman of the security region alone, so he will need the national inspections, i.e. the NVWA and the ISZW. They are all necessary to enforce the good in those slaughterhouses. But then it is Ton Heerts who has to make the decision about Vion there. It is the chairman of the security region who should actually take the enforcement decision. He shall do so after having asked for advice from the GGD. I think that's all the way it's supposed to be. But Mrs Ouwehand did have a point, namely: well, there may be a bit more clarity in it. In addition, as chairman of the security region, you also have to cooperate with those national inspections. How do you do that? Are we going to find out again and again how to do that, or can we also strengthen something about national direction? The answer is simply yes. That's why I asked for a plan of action. So the plan of action is there. Again, it came to us last night, I think, so I haven't had a chance to look at it myself. The decision will take place next week. So I think we're doing exactly what you want and what you're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u443	But that is a little tricky, because then we will be informed in writing, while we will have a debate on this with the Minister today for the last time. The Boxtel slaughter is not Ton Heerts, but another chairman of the security region. Residents are really worried. They're going to demonstrate. They say, "This slaughterhouse must be closed." The Department of Social Affairs has checked and not one slaughterhouse where they are looking at his orphans complied with all the rules. That was an earlier motion from the Chamber: the cabinet must ensure that all RIVM directives are complied with. That's what you have to force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u444	So that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u445	So what do you mean, "I'm still looking at a plan of action"? This minister should just say, "Guys, that slaughterhouse is closing. Only if you follow the rules will you be able to open again." So this afternoon, the Minister of LNV had a conversation with those slaughterhouses. I want to know what she said there, after the House's motion that the pace of that production process should be reduced, to give the animals a little air and to protect the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u446	That's two things. That's the other motion. I have just said that the Minister of LNV will return to that point. That is a motion that falls under her portfolio. She'll just come back to you. This is about the national regulation on the enforcement of the rules in those slaughterhouses, which are related to working conditions. For that, exactly what is in your motion is being done at the moment. As soon as I'm done with that and we know how we're gonna do it, you'll get that information. But it is not the case that this minister will then decide on every slaughterhouse. That's not true. Otherwise, this society will really be ruled from VWS. We're not gonna do that. We are going to ensure that those who are responsible, namely the presidents of the security regions, are also given the tools to do what we can expect them to do. They have already done a great job in doing this by making that plan of action. That is what we are going to decide and I will inform you about it. That's just the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u447	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u448	Yeah, finally. The minister is trying to make it a little small, like you can't bother the minister of VWS with all the little details in the corona crisis. Those fireplaces are in the slaughterhouses. That should therefore have its first attention. And that meat industry is not a "vital sector" that the cabinet spoke of at first. It appears to be a fatal sector on all fronts. That is why the VWS Minister must act here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u449	Yeah, and that's what we're doing. So that's what we're doing. I do not want to trivialise this, because these slaughterhouses have proved to be an outbreak front in Germany, and quite a lot too. They can be in the Netherlands, too. Many of the samples that have been done have been done and many have been done in the meantime, leading to results that you can hardly see anywhere. I am talking about the percentage of the employees who are infected. There is simply a need for adequate action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u450	Mr President, I had the impression that the Minister was a bit at the end of his speech. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u451	It's about the slaughterhouses. I still have a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u452	Mr President, I wanted to ask a question about his implementation of the motion for an independent opinion, but I felt that we were suddenly almost finished. Shall I ask that question now? The Minister said something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u453	I actually answered the question, didn't I, at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u454	Part of the question has been answered. I appreciate that very much. The Minister said that I would also make these opinions available to the Chamber. Thank you for that. I had also asked in my term if he would be willing to discuss the application and the name of the person to whom he is asking for advice with the Chamber, excuse me, at the beginning of the summer with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u455	I was gonna tell you, you're gonna have to come back from the campsite. But I'd like to share it with you, surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u456	Very well, thank you. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u457	As far as I'm concerned, we're doing it as openly as we can. Anyone who feels the need to think with us should do so. I hope you will also see that we are involving incredibly many experts in everything we do. That really isn't just the OMT. With that app alone, we now have an advisory group, with professors in many areas, who advise us on this. That's how we develop that app. In fact, in all areas we use a huge forest advisor. There is almost no professor anymore in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u458	There's no misunderstanding about that. Many experts are involved in the approach. That's very good. Those are also people for whose learning I have the greatest respect. The nature of this proposal was different. Such an in-action review means that in a quieter phase of the crisis people from outside ask what they would advise you about what could be even better for the period from September onwards. I am pleased that the Chamber has adopted that motion and that the Minister is going to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u459	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u460	That term comes from a letter that we both received from four professors. Rest assured, we will also have these professors, and then I think we have had all the professors of the Netherlands,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u461	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u462	...involved. Then there is actually one question left, namely the question about the Psalm Police. That's a pretty word anyway, but of course we're not gonna do that. When we say to the churches on the basis of advice that it is not wise to start singing again in the church... We don't know much yet, but what we do know is that it's really a risk of spreading, even if you maintain that 1.5 meters. If you know that, it's wise to give that advice to churches. That is not an opinion that you then put in a regulation, after which you ask the chairman of the Security Council to maintain. I don't think we should deal with churches like that. Churches really have a different constitutional protection. Religion is a great asset, so we can feel that tension. Mr Grapperhaus talks with the churches about how this advice can be passed on to the churches. We see mainly church societies that do incredibly well and want to do it well and who feel very responsible for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u463	I also see you, Mrs Van Brenk, but Mr Van der Staaij... Yes, that's what I thought. I'll give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u464	Well, I'd like to hear Mrs Van Brenk on this, too, but that aside. I am glad that the Minister is putting this forward, because this will bring it to a different light. It seemed as if instead of an opinion it would suddenly become a juridized ban. I'm glad to hear that's not the case. Of course it is clear that caution is in order. Therefore many churches said to choose not to sing or very limited. Others said: we take all kinds of precautions and then we have the idea that it can be justified. It's a good thing the conversation about that is being continued. I do have a question, also because the Prime Minister was just talking about it. There is a firm opinion from the OMT, it was said. I haven't been able to find that. Until now it was more like "we don't really know so well" and "be careful." That was a bit of the thrust of what I have understood so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u465	The advice is: where there is forced use of the voice, which I find a rather unkind lyric when it comes to singing; it only depends on who is singing; sometimes it sounds a bit forced, but most people you like to listen to don't. Anyway, with forced voting, the risk of spreading is just high. That's what the OMT says. There are a number of examples, namely singing together, singing together, and chanting and screaming in a stadium. We know from many examples, including internationally, that many of the spreading events that have taken place involved this type of expression. And that's what the OMT warns of. About what is then justified, there is a German advice that has embraced RIVM. That's actually the best thing there is right now. RIVM also says that it is not finished, that there is still work to be done. At that stage, it is. In conversation with the churches, I think we should tell the honest story, which is that it's really a risk. The advice is really not to do those singing together. This also applies as advice towards the stadiums, but we need to tighten things up there. In the direction of the churches it is urgent advice: don't do it. But we're going to talk to the churches about that in a normal way, so we're not going to make a regulation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u466	It would really help if that information about risks were very clear and shared. I've put all these OMT opinions together, but I really don't get it out of the way it's being argued with; rather, based on literature analysis, anecdotal coverage, there's still insufficient insight, that kind of terms. That's something other than a serious risk indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u467	I will make sure that in that conversation with the churches that Mr Grapperhaus has, the latest state of mind and the latest scientific insights are shared and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u468	I am a little disappointed that the Minister has forgotten my question about the carers. A lot of people are still getting into trouble because day-to-day spending is not yet fully operational and there is no alternative. My question was what the Minister could do to improve the structure of this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u469	I did answer a question about family care, namely: where can you go if you are dissatisfied with how the nursing home deals with the visitation scheme? I didn't find this question in the set. The answer is that we are making roadmaps for what can and can be expected to return to normal in all healthcare sectors, including on the basis of the motions that have been adopted. On day-to-day spending, we said that it should be open by 1 June. Transport must also go back to normal. Grosso mode is also what happens, although it is said in many of this day-to-day spending: organizing day-to-day spending at 1.5 meters means that it has to be adjusted, that sometimes I cannot be open every day, because I have to make the groups a little smaller in order to maintain that 1.5 meters. That conversation should just be for day-to-day service providers. Where can people go? At their municipalities, because they finance the daily spending. That is where they can find a good way to organise daily spending. Grosso mode is the advice when carers report to you that the daily spending does not yet work, which often will not always be financed by the municipality, but often will be financed by the municipality: make sure you pull the municipality's jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u470	I also see Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u471	I thought the Minister was at the end of his speech. I would like to draw attention to a specific group. We've had a lot of sectors going by tonight, from culture to MBO and aviation. I think the most vulnerable group is the people who work in prostitution. Decisions have now been taken to reopen this sector. Our group is receiving many reports from women who are afraid of going back to work because of the health risks. But they have to, because if they don't, they're gonna lose their jobs. There are also women who would like to take the step to leave prostitution and who need exit programmes. My question is actually twofold: what is the cabinet going to do for the first group, for the people in prostitution who are afraid to work but actually have to? What backup is there for them? My second question is: what is the cabinet going to do for the exit programs? Are there enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u472	The answer to your last question is: yes, of course we are financing it. In fact, we have extended the RUPS scheme on your initiative during this cabinet period. Those exit programs are sufficient. And for the prostitution business, of course, there's just prostitution social work. Every city has that. The watchful eye on prostitution is the GGD. The health surveillance of the GGD on prostitution is very intensive. I've been to work with you before. That surveillance is very intensive. One comes along and proactively offers the opportunity for women to report and to do the right thing. It is precisely 'is it safe', hygiene advice, 'what can I do if I feel threatened', 'what can I do if I want to leave' and so on? The latter runs through the G.D.D. That's very structured. In every GGD region there is simply supervision of the prostitution industry. There is, of course, that in the licensed sector. Of course, the unauthorized industry is not in the picture. But there's no such thing as surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u473	There are many women, including men, who want to get out of prostitution, who want to take the step to another life. We are getting reports that there is more demand for them than there is for aid programmes. So that's what I'm asking for the attention of the cabinet. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is that there really is a group falling between shore and ship. That group simply does not dare to get to work properly because of the health risks. It's the ultimate contact profession, I'd almost say. These people say "we just don't dare yet" or "we want to start slowly." But they can't, because then they lose their jobs and fall between shore and ship. And there's no safety net. Is the cabinet gonna offer this safety net?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u474	What we can do here is get to work. If you're worried about your own safety, about your own hygiene and about your own abilities, it's important that you discuss that with each other and see what you can do. Protocols have been made by the industry organisation. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's I haven't actually heard that there is a need for additional support for that. When it comes to sufficient exit programs: there are. If you have individual signals that this is not the case, I would say 'come on through', because with those individual signals I think the municipality is simply inclined to help and help. Again, when it comes to the licensed industry, it is really up to the GGD to give individual advice on the question: is this safe, can it? Et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u475	I'll take the Minister's outstretched hand. I will ensure that he gets the information and I hope that there will be a follow-up action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u476	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u477	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u478	Nice to meet you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u479	We'll hold off on the shift for a second. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u480	Thank you, Mr President. For the next hour I would like to answer five questions... A number of questions have been asked about the ic and the triage associated with it. Let me start by saying it's good that the playbook is there. I think it gives direction and backup to the actions of the ic-doctors and the ic-specialists. It is also good that there is transparency. I think it's been done carefully. Now that a version has been published on the eve of further consultation of the profession, which I am also in favour of, I thought it was important to give the feeling of the cabinet, and I also thought the feeling of the Chamber, in that further consultation. As you know, a parliamentary motion was adopted on 12 March 2020, with 150 to 0, asking the government not to apply age limits, but to treat each patient as an individual. I think that with my position, which is shared by the cabinet, but also by the Chamber, I have brought the Chamber-wide feelings to the attention of the profession. I think this is all the more true because the profession indicates that at the stage of the code black triage should take place in accordance with considerations outside the medical domain. I think it's good to see that. It is fair of the doctors to declare it that way, but I think we have a particular responsibility to indicate what our responsibility is. I'm not showing emotion right now, Mr. Chairman, but I have a bit of a hoarse voice. We are now waiting for the consultation. The playbook's there. I expect the profession to be able to complete the consultation after the summer. Let us hope that we do not have to speed up decision-making. Of course, we're doing everything we can to never have to use this playbook. Suppose there would again be ic-problems, then the Health Inspectorate will keep an eye on that. In this case, it will be called for an accelerated decision-making process. But once again, the signals are that we will not need anything at that point. Mrs Marijnissen asked me what my opinion was on the appeal of the athletes and trainers to move more. I thought that was a very important call and I immediately responded to the call made by Joop Alberda, as well as other prominent players in sport. They have a different definition, a sports definition, of the new normal. They say: how can we realize that the whole of the Netherlands would actually move much more? That is a very justified position, because almost half of the Dutch of 4 years and older do not reach the movement standard. This means that we need to be aware of what our current policy is really about. But how can we use the ideas of this group to get a lot more people moving? My idea is that we come together to create a kind of roadmap that should give us a new impetus to a positive trend break in the number of Dutch people who meet the mobility standard. On 2 June, together with Secretary of State Blokhuis, I sat around the table with this group and next week we will do so again, and at their request other departments will join us to see how we can shape this agenda. We shall therefore take a very positive view of this. Mrs Dik-Faber noted that there were sufficient personal protective equipment, including in long-term care, and asked whether they could be used preventively. It seems very important to me that there are sufficient personal protective equipment that can be used to comply with the RIVM directives. I have argued before in this Chamber that it is very good that we are dealing with this very carefully. If you had a general preventive use of mouth caps, you would have to use millions of mouth caps in no time, leading to scarcity for the caregivers, which we all suffer from again. Partly on the basis of the discussion that has taken place here in the Chamber and Mrs Marijnissen's motion, we have made it possible for care workers to deviate from these principles on the basis of their professional insights. Mrs Van den Berg asked the question whether it is practical to separate corona care and regular care. This is a question that has been asked before. We have discussed this with hospitals, academic hospitals and professional organisations. It has emerged from that that would not always be a good choice. Firstly, because the size of COVID-19 is fluctuating, making it very difficult for the organisation to have a lot of staff relocations. Secondly, we must also pay attention to the workload and emotional burden of constantly having to work on these COOVID-19 departments, as many employees have already done. When discussing the scaling-up of intensive care, we will see if it is possible to introduce some differentiation in the scaling-up, which could become more efficient. We expect the plan for this at the end of June, and I will inform the Chamber more about it. Finally, Mrs Van den Berg's question about organising regular care at the second wave. That's kind of connected to that plan of scaling up the ic. We want regular healthcare to be able to continue as much as possible. The scaling up of the ic helps with that. General practitioners, hospitals and nursing homes must, of course, be well prepared, including with adequate protective equipment. Hence the build-up of an iron supply. There must be plenty of ICU beds, too. This is being worked on with a plan. We must also be realistic in this: not everything can happen immediately, especially the scaling-up takes time, such as the training of staff. If there was a second wave, you have to make sure that there are enough ic-beds on the one hand, and on the other hand, if that scaling goes very fast, some scaling of the regular care will not be avoided. We're trying very hard to keep that in balance. Once again, the plan scaling up I expect at the end of the month and then I will send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u481	With regard to the triage plan for ic-recording at the time the max is reached, I said in the first term that it is up to us here in The Hague to be reluctant with reactions, because it is first on the field. I asked the Minister if he agrees with me. At the challenge of Mrs Van Brenk, I even added in the first term, with a conscious statement, that I thought the Minister had spoken for his turn. Now the Minister states that he has done so, speaking in turn, on the basis of the ruling of the Chamber by a Chamberwide motion. I find that amazing, because that motion was adopted at the moment when we were at the peak of the crisis and saw that enormous pressure coming on the ic's. Then there was no script, then there were no scenarios to indicate how to act when choices need to be made that cannot be medically substantiated. We then adopted that motion and said that if scenarios come up, they cannot be based on age alone. Then the KNMG and the Federation of Medical Specialists took the step to come up with such a plan for that black scenario. Wouldn't it have been more chic if this minister had said: "It's very good that they dare to do this, that there's a first concept; let them first talk to their supporters, specialists, ethicists and patients, and then I'm going to look at it as a minister?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u482	I agree with him in general. That is also why I welcome the fact that there is such a plan and that I welcome the fact that it is very regulated when you have to make what decisions. But there is a phase in that schematic that sees exactly the situation that was discussed in the Chamber at the time, namely what happens if you cannot triage on medical-ethical grounds and then have to choose what you do and what system you run for it. The Chamber, in turn, has said that it wants to give the government that this should not lead to age limits. I think it is appropriate to include it in the consultation: "Dear professional group, we think it is very good that the script is there, but we also think about what social views might be in the development of such a script and take it with us in the consultation. I assume that we are now waiting for this consultation, that we are asking the doctors to consider very carefully what their considerations have been on medical-ethical grounds, but also in the field where those medical-ethical principles can no longer be applied. That is precisely the point of the road map. I think it is right to say to the professions that they may also be able to take into account views expressed in this Parliament, and also in this cabinet, about the non-application of age limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u483	I think that stage 3 in the draft roadmap is a little more nuanced than the minister is saying here today and he quotes the verdict in the motion that the Chamber has adopted. Is it not a pity that the Minister is now taking one element out of it, so that the debate, as Mr Jetten said so beautifully, is flattened and, in fact, that difficult discussion in the professional group itself, with patients, is nothing more than an extra burden? Instead, he could have looked in peace. It's nice that there's a concept. Now let people talk to each other about how they feel about that. Then we see what comes out of that and then we are going to have the debate about it here in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u484	But I do not quite understand Mr Veldman. There has been a discussion in this Chamber about what to do in case you end up in an area where it is no longer a matter of medical considerations. In addition, the doctors say: I cannot make the medical assessment anymore, we are now going to choose on the basis of which we make the assessment. The Chamber then says with 150 to 0: government, do you want to ensure that in such a case it is not about age limits? I have informed the profession of this before they enter the consultation, because it seemed important to me to know, to know and to take this view into account at an early stage in the further discussions. It's exactly the domain the Chamber was about at the time. I think I have tried to express the feelings of the Chamber as the Chamber has clearly stated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u485	The Minister is reuniting the debate, and that is a pity. I regret that, because that does not help in the difficult issue, which is responsible for all kinds of ethical aspects. This is not helping, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u486	I'm gonna keep going at this point anyway. We have indeed had this debate before in this Chamber, but that debate was purely about the question "Select at the entrance of an intensive care by age?" The House has indeed said: we do not want that. But in the letter of 16 June 2020, the Minister writes: I have already indicated that I cannot agree with triage in which age plays a role, regardless of medical considerations. But that's exactly the beauty of this protocol. Before you answer that question about age, there are many medical considerations in advance, substantive medical considerations. I agree with Mr Veldman that the Minister's early statement has destroyed the debate and that the cabinet has already taken the position of 'first come first served', which always gives priority to the first person who comes forward with the ic. In fact, you have already taken a position on what should be the alternative to that age cohort. This does indeed make dialogue difficult, the dialogue which you also praise in your own letter. It is very important that, after the umbrella organisations, the grassroots groups should now also be included. I would like to ask the Ministers once again whether he can say here in the debate that, despite what he said in the letter and the media, he hopes that there will be an open and wide-ranging debate on this protocol. We hope never to need it, but if it is, doctors need to know: this is a protocol that is also supported by society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u487	I'll be right back to the next trial. But very precisely: that phase 3 in that playbook is again divided into three next phases. That's step A, step B, step C. About step A and B the doctors say: that is the medical domain, and within that medical domain we can make medical considerations that also have to do with age. Obviously, age gives a prediction of how to get out of an ic, so these are medical considerations that you can make in it. In domain A and B you can make those medical considerations. Where age plays a role in the medical assessment; nothing wrong with it at all. What matters is that in that third stage the profession says: then we can no longer actually make a medical assessment, then we have to do so on other grounds. That is precisely what the House of Representatives said at the time: in such a case, in which medical considerations can no longer be made, we do not want to be selected solely by age. And I have expressed that view, Mr President. That seemed important to me. Such a social discussion is important. We have had a bit of a social discussion here in the Chamber. That has led to a motion that has been passed. I thought it would be a good idea to tell the profession what was said in that motion. That seemed important to me to weigh in with the consultation. And indeed, let's wait for that consultation. It can lead to further insights, to anything and everything. We can discuss that in this Chamber if we wish. I have also heard the suggestion that when that consultation is completed, it may lead to a briefing in the Chamber. All of these seem to me to be good ideas. I do not think, however, that you should blame me for expressing the feelings of the Chamber of 150 to 0 on such an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u488	Then it has been useful that in this debate at least several groups have been able to indicate how they have interpreted that motion. So that's different than the cabinet did. But apart from that motion, I would like to hear from the Minister, from his portfolio, from his responsibility, whether he recognizes that in that third phase, which you never hope to achieve, the concept of age cohorts could indeed be a useful consideration for doctors. Does he recognise that in the current dialogue it is also wise to identify the advantages and disadvantages of age cohorts with each other, so that before we were in that black scenario, we would have exchanged it with doctors, ethicists and other interest groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u489	Of course, all the advantages and disadvantages must be addressed. We can talk about that, too. But I assume that you are not taking a different position now than the position you took when discussing that motion? If that's the case, then maybe it's good to switch it with each other. Then we can also involve this in the further consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u490	I can only speak for myself, not for other colleagues. For D66 it has always been important that we do not select at the entrance of the ic by age. You ask doctors to consider life expectancy and the chances that someone can recover from the ic in a decent way. The age cohort may be one of the factors that you consider to be a doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u491	I very much agree with Mr Jetten. That's not the point in the playbook. Those parts of the schematic are exactly as Mr Jetten points out. This is about the next question. If those arguments can no longer be applied and you are therefore faced with the question of what you do when you have to make a selection on non-medical grounds. In that case, I have understood the Chamber's ruling in such a way that you say to the government: make sure there is no age differentiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u492	I think this has been discussed enough. I see Mrs Van Brenk, but I also see Mrs Dik-Faber. Is this about the same subject? Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u493	The Christian Union and D66 may differ on medical-ethical matters, but now I can fully endorse what Mr Jetten said. I would like to emphasise that there are three stages. That is what the Minister has already put forward. The medical criteria are the first stage. The next phase contains the strengthened medical criteria and then comes the stage where medical criteria are no longer possible. Then you get to the domain of ethics, but there are three more steps to go before you finally get into the domain of ages. And these are not ages, but really age cohorts, where there is intergenerational solidarity. I think it is very important to point out on behalf of the Christian Union that my group believes that this is a coherent and balanced whole that it deserves to be discussed with society and the people who have to work with it. So also from my group the appeal not to take an advance here and really give the room for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u494	In any case, I am pleased that the motion was adopted at that time, but it is about a completely different subject, namely moving. It was about the athletes. There have been three equal votes on a motion that we have tabled. It was about moving older people, because they had to stay inside very much and move very little, while moving is also very important for the elderly. My question to the Minister is whether older people will be included in his story, because this is simply extremely important in terms of prevention and fitness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u495	The short answer is: of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u496	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u497	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the various directors for answering the questions. In particular, the last issue we discussed does not reassure me. I really believe that it is now up to the cabinet to keep a distance. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Federation of Medical Specialists and Medical Federation KNMG recently prepared the draft roadmap "Triage based on non-medical considerations for IC inclusion at the time of phase 3 step C in the COVID-19 pandemic";]] [[noting that this concept is now being assessed first for feasibility, applicability and acceptance by various medical and patient organisations, which may lead to adjustments before the final version appears;]] [[Whereas this schematic is a very complex medical-ethical subject which should be handled with the utmost care;]] [[Whereas this concept should now be further discussed by and with those who, in the case of code black, have to deal with this manual, namely doctors, nurses and other experts working in the IC;]] [[considers that politics should exercise restraint at this stage until the final version is available;]] [[calls on the Government not to make any substantive comments on the Roadmap "Triage based on non-medical considerations for IC inclusion at the time of phase 3 step C in the COVID-19 pandemic" until the final version has been published by the Federation of Medical Specialists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u498	Anything's okay, but I think it's a little embarrassing here. It does not happen every day, but I have to praise Mr Van Rijn for what he has done. A motion has been passed in the Chamber. Surely it cannot be that we are waiting for a proposal from the profession to be final? We are the people's representatives, we are the people's representatives, we are the people who should be speaking on behalf of the people, and we have said that we do not want people to be judged by age or help in this black scenario. Minister Van Rijn has done exactly what we asked him to do. I don't know why he's doing that and why he's sorry at once and how he's lobbied, but it's an embarrassing show. The signal on behalf of my group, I hope, on behalf of a number of other groups too, is that the Minister has done well and that your motion will hopefully be widely rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u499	What I have just mentioned in the interruption to Minister Van Rijn is that I sincerely appreciate the fact that the Federation of Medical Specialists and the Medical Federation have drawn up this complex schematic. It is now up to their successors, doctors and specialists and patients to discuss this with each other. And then it is up to politics, with the motion in hand, to see what has come out of it and what we think of it. There is no need to burden that complicated discussion, which is already difficult, on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u500	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u501	Mr President, thank you very much. I have already told the Prime Minister and others in my first term that we must get rid of this one and a half-metre dictatorship. And especially outside, because once again, no one gets infected outside. Companies break down, people lose their freedom, and that's disproportionate. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas investigations have shown that there have been virtually no infections in the outdoor area;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the one-and-a-half-meter measure directly in the outdoor area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u502	Mr. Chairman. Then it's about the inner spaces. I'm glad the Prime Minister wants to talk to the catering industry, but still the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government applies the one-and-a-half meter rule in indoor spaces because, under certain circumstances, corona can lead to many infections, but at the same time it can lead to long-term turnover losses and even bankruptcy for many companies;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate technical solutions for indoor spaces, such as ventilation, filters and other smart applications that can lead to a set of conditions for safe indoor spaces and to consult with the various sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u503	Finally, a final motion on double standards when it comes to demonstrations. The Prime Minister made a joke of it, but unfortunately it is not a joke, because the VVD mayors are very selective. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that anti-racism demonstrations in the Netherlands are fully accommodated and demonstrations banning protests against cabinet policy, including in Amsterdam and The Hague;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is no more double standards and that all demonstrations are treated equally, including....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question and one motion. The question concerns the MBO students: ball and bbl. The Prime Minister said that only 30% are under 18. My colleague Anne Kuik gave me really opposite figures: 100,000 young people to 18. Will the Prime Minister take another look at that in the next few days? Then I have a motion, partly on behalf of Mrs Bergkamp, Mr Veldman and Mrs Dik-Faber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many bottlenecks to better value nurses and caregivers, such as the job/scaling in the job and salary building, lack of control over working hours and the high administrative burden, inter alia due to the lack of clear and adequate data exchange;]] [[Considering that the opinion of the Economic and Social Council on Care for the Future shows that there is a high level of mobility in care, often highlighting the high workload and lack of appreciation for work, and that there is also a decline in work experience among workers in care;]] [[having regard to the fact that the definition of working conditions for health care providers (setting of employees in job and salary scales) and for the social partners (setting of collective agreements) allows the State, through the State's contribution to labour cost development, the ova room, to ensure that salaries can be market-compliant;]] [[calls on the government to step up its dialogue with the social partners in order to see how the bottlenecks, as expressed by the ESC, can be resolved, from each of them's own roles and responsibilities, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van den Berg, Bergkamp, Veldman and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-433]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u505	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. In the second term, I would like to briefly highlight the importance of clarity in sectors which are not sufficiently helped by the current relaxations, or which will be difficult to achieve in the coming months. I think that in this debate it has become clear that the cabinet will continue to think along with them to see where customisation is possible and how possible protocols and customization can be achieved. I am thinking of the cultural sector. I'm thinking about the events. Should it become apparent that they will still be faced with restrictive measures due to corona after 1 September, the government will also consider extending aid packages in the summer to support cultural institutions and entrepreneurs in these sectors. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the cabinet is today implementing the Van Kooten-Arissen motion, for the well-earned bonus of €1,000. In this debate, however, it became clear that Kamerbreed is also a long-term value for the public sector, and specifically for nurses in the care sector, and all the others in home care, you name it. We'd like to see that extra appreciation coming. We are therefore calling on employers and workers to discuss this in the near future. My colleague, Mr Bergkamp, has co-signed Mrs Van den Berg's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u506	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u507	Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas self-diagnosis and temperature measurements by travellers cannot prevent infected and contagious travellers entering the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, for example, New Zealand was Corona-free after great efforts, but has been re-infected by air passengers;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is particularly vulnerable to this risk by the international hub Schiphol;]] [[Whereas there are connections from Schiphol to several countries, such as the United States, Brazil and India, where the number of infections is still increasing;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a protocol on non-Schengen air traffic with a higher risk of contagion than the Netherlands before any further increase in air traffic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government contribution to labour cost development, the oval, is likely to be lower due to the corona crisis, according to the June estimate of the Central Planning Bureau;]] [[noting that, at the same time, pension costs for the care and well-being sector are expected to increase;]] [[considers that a zero line should be avoided at all costs;]] [[believes that caregivers not only deserve applause, but also structural appreciation in the form of a good salary;]] [[calls on the government to appeal to health workers on their responsibility to provide workers with a good salary;]] [[calls on the government to create sufficient oval space in the VWS budget so that caregivers can count on a better salary next year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-434]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-435]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u508	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have just heard a motion from the coalition that I do not think caregivers are getting very much better. That is why we are making an attempt with a motion which, I hope, will be of real help to health care professionals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that healthcare workers rightly receive a one-off bonus for their great commitment to the corona crisis;]] [[Considering that there is still a great deal to be done in the coming period of time to call on healthcare professionals and that they have too few colleagues;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan for structural valuation for caregivers, in which better working conditions and a better salary can be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u510	Another motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the manifesto "Building together to move as the new normal" contains interesting building blocks relevant to a healthier and more vital society in the future;]] [[noting that many studies have already been carried out and that proposals have already been put forward to increase sport and to move in the various sectors of our society such as education, the labour market and care;]] [[Considers that exercise and sport have a positive impact on people's health, fitness and resilience;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of this manifesto and the studies already carried out, to come up with a plan to encourage sport and movement in different sectors to move the Netherlands and to draw up a number of cross-departmental scenarios and accounts for this purpose and to send them to the Chamber by 1 April 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Veldman, Mr Diertens, Mr Asscher, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u511	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it cannot be ruled out that people have to keep 1.5 metres apart for a long time;]] [[Whereas this will continue to cause significant losses in turnover in different sectors such as culture, sport and events;]] [[calls on the Government to develop targeted support packages for vulnerable sectors, and to inform the Chamber on this matter by Prinsjesdag at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas overtime worked makes it possible to recover allowances for caregivers;]] [[calls on the government to compensate care workers if they lose their allowances due to their hard work in the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-438]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Hiddema, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u512	There are many names underneath, but also an illegible scribble. I hope I'm not gonna let anyone down or anyone else change their mind. Oh, it was Mr. Hiddema! The motion is partly on behalf of Mr Hiddema, Chairman. We apologize to Forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u513	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u514	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for answering all the questions. We talked about the churches. Also from this place a call to make use of the possibilities there are, including the hedges. I know they are taking place, and that is just a very nice initiative. We talked about the nursing homes. I really hope that nursing homes will also see what is possible and work on the basis of confidence, and that that period of fear will just be behind us very quickly, so that loved ones can meet again and people should not look for it higher up in the inspection, because that would really be very sad. About the prostitution, I got a hand-off from the minister that he's coming in with information. One point I would like to raise is the position of disabled people. I have seen another survey showing that 55% of people with disabilities do not actually come out, find it very complicated and are also afraid to go out. A solution that is provided for these people is for example the use of medical mouth masks. I don't know if that's the solution now, but I think it's good if this cabinet specifically pays attention to this group of very vulnerable people, who couldn't recognize themselves in it when the Prime Minister said yesterday "summer is coming, a nice time to go out" and felt hurt by it. So let's really look out for our fellow people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u515	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u516	Thank you, Mr President. For those for whom it has not been clear yet, Corona has made it clear that the meat sector is a fatal sector on all fronts. For the animals, for the people who have to work there, and for an ambition like the containment of covid. A number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop labeling the meat sector as a vital sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u517	Mr. Chairman. Then back to the beginning of the outbreak of this crisis, when I pointed out to the Cabinet that you are getting this from the beating with animals. The Minister of VWS was too busy at the time to fight the crisis, but the summer is coming, so we're giving him summer homework. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas COVID-19, like SARS, swine flu and Q fever, is a zoonoses, and that 60% to 75% of new infectious diseases are caused by the transmission of animal diseases to humans;]] [[Considering that for years, virologists have therefore been warning that deforestation, loss of biodiversity, wildlife trafficking and the accumulation of large numbers of animals in livestock farming pose increasing risks for the emergence of new zoonoses and pandemics;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is a major importer of deforestation products such as palm oil and soya for animal feed, has the highest livestock density in the world and is an important hub in global wildlife trade with Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam;]] [[Notes that a new zoonotic pandemic such as corona should be prevented;]] [[calls on the Government, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior of VWS on Prinsjesdag, to present a plan of action to significantly reduce the risk of the emergence of zoonoses, addressing the root causes in a coherent manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-441]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had two more motions, but I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u519	Yes, but I know you're putting it in another debate, so it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u520	Exactly. We're gonna stick with this today. Thanks to the cabinet and a good summer, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u521	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u522	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. First of all, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to submit a temporary law which should provide the basis for possible restrictive measures in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 virus;]] [[Whereas there has been a great deal of social unrest over the consultation of this temporary law, and that it is necessary for its proper compliance to be widely supported;]] [[Notes that ministerial arrangements are not the appropriate way to take measures that seriously restrict fundamental rights, since the Constitution does not leave room for this in all cases, restricts Parliament's input and excludes the Advisory Section of the Council of State;]] [[points out that any temporary law must by definition be of short, clearly defined duration, and that it is up to the States General to decide on the restriction of fundamental rights and possible extension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u523	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Minister De Jonge for his response to the issue of singing in divine services. It is good that it has been stressed that it is an opinion and not a ban and that religious freedom is respected in this matter, but that it is, of course, a serious discussion about it. Next week a discussion will take place between the churches and Minister Grapperhaus. Prior to this, clear information will be provided on current insights, risks and possibilities to mitigate those risks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u524	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of excitement and unrest in society about the consequences of the Corona app and the Corona Act;]] [[believes that these two major issues can and should be dealt with more transparently;]] [[calls on the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport to remove the fuss and unrest caused by his conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u526	I think the Minister doesn't realize, given his reaction outside the microphone. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the OMT concludes that there are signals from behavioural research that compliance with tests is suboptimal and that therefore the test readiness deserves attention;]] [[noting that the test readiness is an important condition for the success of the relaxations;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a further study of the willingness to test among the Dutch population, the reason behind the willingness to test and to what extent the willingness to test differs among groups;]] [[also invites the Government, on the basis of the results of this study, to strengthen the campaigns to increase test readiness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that persons with headscarfs and mouth masks have recently been wrongly refused at municipal offices;]] [[considers access to services to be of great importance;]] [[points out that it is unacceptable and unacceptable to refuse to accept persons with headscarfs and masks at municipal counters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-444]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u527	Finally, Mr President. I've got 20 seconds left, I see. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to include 500 of the most vulnerable refugee children in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps an idea to give rulers some time, then it can be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u529	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u530	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for taking over our proposal to plan a moment of mourning. Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the letter of the Minister of 19 March the nursing homes were centrally closed, under the direction of the Minister;]] [[Whereas in advance there are no longer any restrictions on receiving visits;]] [[noting that many nursing homes which are corona-free do not yet implement these relaxations;]] [[calls on the government to take the lead by identifying why there are nursing homes that have not yet relaxed their policies and, if possible, remove bottlenecks, so that these residents can see and go outside regularly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that early detection of coronavirus infection in a nursing home is crucial;]] [[Whereas the coronavirus can be detected in wastewater even before people get complaints;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties, to examine the possibilities for early detection of the coronavirus in nursing homes by taking samples from the sewers on a weekly basis and examining the presence of corona in order to enable early action to be taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-447]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-448]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u531	I'm running out of time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u532	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u533	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that standing on terraces is still not allowed as of 1 July 2020;]] [[Whereas the risk of corona contamination has been found to be minimal;]] [[calls on the government no longer to prohibit standing on terraces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the maximum permitted number of people at a table within a catering establishment is still two;]] [[Whereas an increase in the number allowed would be an enormous financial relief;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether there are safe possibilities to increase the number of two people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that clubs and nightclubs should still remain closed until 1 September 2020;]] [[Whereas this measure represents a possible bankruptcy for many clubs and nightclubs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether clubs and discos can be opened early in a safe and gradual manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-449]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-450]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-451]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u534	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u535	Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions and then a series of motions. I've checked with DUO about the proportions of the students at the MBO under 18 years old. According to our information, 13% would be 16 years old and 19% 17 years old. So that's a little higher than the 30% I mentioned. Those are the figures we get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u536	I've had a state of affairs from my colleague Anne Kuik and that comes together in a total of about 160,000 people in orb and bbl. If I calculate quickly, I can see that that's about 100,000 people under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u537	That's right, I guess. There are about 500,000 students at the MBO, so that could be right with the 32%. In fact, you're even lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u538	The Prime Minister has a very high number for the MBO in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u539	The total MBO is in my head, which I have on about half a million students. Roughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u540	Especially the pupils under the age of 18 really need structure and also those practical lessons. So that's gonna be under pressure right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u541	But the numbers are right. At least, this is what we just checked at DUO, which is 32% under 18. The tricky thing is that if you treat it separately from the other one, everything's gonna get mixed up. The intention is, of course, that in vo and mbo the schools should get back to work as much as possible. Of course that is a bit more difficult on the 1.5 meters, but you try to set it up as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u542	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u543	It may also be re-enabled in the education debates. I'm sure this will come back. I also took a look at the installation of those ventilation systems from the planes. Those are indeed I thought it was huge investments, which is actually too much for a restaurant. Of course, a mouth cap there is less successful. Anyway, I said a few things about that in the first period and they will of course stand. Then there is the impact on events and the cultural sector. Yesterday's relaxations are really gonna help there. There are also pilots, called "field labs," which have been developed together with the event sector. This researches how the event sector, including congresses, can deal with the 1.5 meter, including the entire logistics of visitors, kitchen screens, etc. It is planned that this will continue until the end of December. That's a project that OCW, EZK and VWS are working on with the sector. We are also looking in the future at how we are going to proceed after the current measures and thus beyond the current emergency package, because that will run until 1 October. Then in the extension of this. If you look at all the measures that are now in place, including the 300 million that the cabinet has put in place for the cultural sector, and also the municipalities that receive 60 million through the Municipal Fund, you will see that all in all there is now roughly half a billion available for the cultural and creative sector to deal with problems. Of course, that is in addition to the discussions that are going on there in any case, which I mentioned in the first term. I have reviewed all the arrangements that they can make use of. This remains incredibly complicated for them too. I realize that. Anyway, those conversations are always going on with them, of course. Then the motion to part No. 430 over 1.5 meters outside. With reference to the debate: dissuade. Then motion No. 431, on those technical solutions for indoor spaces. I didn't say it like that. I have said that there are constant conversations and that creative solutions are always being looked at. But I can't do this, so I have to advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 432. With reference to the debate: dissuade. The motion in part No. 434 asks about that air traffic. The commitment of the Netherlands is not to allow travellers from areas with a higher risk than the Netherlands. In addition, a strong international package of measures is being taken, including national additions where necessary. The measures taken are in line with the RIVM advice. So I want the motion in part number on balance. 434 dissuade. The motion in part No. To be honest, 438 is too early. I would actually like to ask for that motion to be held. If I had to advise on the Asscher/Marijnissen motion, I would have to dissuade her. But perhaps it can be maintained until we know more about how it is developing in the cultural sector and also in a number of other sectors mentioned there, also in the light of all the packages that are now there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u544	The motion naturally calls for a number of things to be done in this summer. So I would imagine we'd arrest her for a week. I understand that the talks are ongoing and next week the Chamber will also be discussing culture with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u545	Maybe that's a reason to deal with the motion there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u546	But holding on longer than until then wouldn't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u547	I understand that, but you could involve the motion in that debate with Ingrid van Engelshoven. I just don't have enough information. I don't know exactly how far one is with those conversations. We couldn't figure that out right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u548	I shall now proceed to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u549	At the request of Mr Asscher, I propose his motion (25295, No. 438). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u550	I'll come to the motion in part No. 445, on the municipal offices. It doesn't ask the cabinet. Still, I don't think this is fair. That's what I said in the first term. It may have happened sometime. That's bad. But with this motion, it looks like it's happening on a large scale. So I'm just gonna give you the advice: dissuade. The motion in part No. I also advise against 446, referring to what the cabinet does. We do not want ad hoc solutions and we are looking for a number of structural solutions in Greece. There is also investment to ensure that children receive good care. Mr Van Haga's motion for a resolution I would advise against this, with reference to all the documents that have been distributed for this debate. This is really unwise. One should really sit on terraces. Especially with a second beer on, you're gonna clot on each other. This presents far too great risks for the spread of the virus. The same applies to the motion in part No. 450 and the motion in part No. 451: all dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u551	Thank you. I now give the floor to the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u552	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the motion in part No. 433. It calls on the government to step up consultations with the social partners in order to see how the bottlenecks as expressed by the ESC can be resolved. I would like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 435. I would advise against it for a number of reasons. First of all, the observations are simply not correct. The motion notes that at the same time pension costs for the health and well-being sector are expected to increase. These pension costs are, of course, taken into account, also in the oval room. The motion also states that a zero line must be avoided at all costs. When you say that to each other all the time, it looks like there's a zero line coming, but there's no zero line coming at all. That's not the expectation at all. The operative part then reads: "The government requests that sufficient oval space be created in the VWS budget. No, oval space is there, because it is simply calculated on the basis of market development. When you say "create," you obviously intend to do something on top of that oval space. That is a repetition of debates that have been held here before. That debate was held by the Prime Minister in the first term. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u553	I think there's a very constructive motion here. It contains two requests. I heard the coalition very well. The VVD says to appeal to employers to contribute as much as possible. Well, we totally agree; we have to do that. The government shouldn't just let taxpayers pay everything. There's just money, sometimes in reserves. We've got to get that out. But we already know that is not enough and we do not know exactly how big that is. And that needs to be squeezed into that oval space. That is exactly what I think the debate has gone through here in the Chamber. In doing so, we are following the mindset of the cabinet, so I do not quite understand why this motion is being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u554	I think the Prime Minister has explained this exuberantly. The oval space shall be determined annually. That ovary will be provisionally established in August, at the August decision-making stage. And that actually indicates the space for next year. That oval space is simply determined on the basis of the calculation of wage developments across society. Wage developments must also be able to be experienced in the care sector. This system has ensured that wage developments in the care sector are actually very steady, and by the way, over the last ten years has also been slightly higher than in the market. On average, it was about 2% higher over all these years, despite the years of crisis. That's just a very nice system. I wouldn't want to interfere with that. It's a great system to hold on to. If you say "I'm going to create space everywhere," you're actually setting up another system. You can do that. You can choose to do that. But I do not choose to do so, because I think we have a very nice system that makes it possible to make pay space available to the healthcare sector every time. This wage area is being used well, because collective agreements are being concluded, and these are simply fine collective agreements. Mr. Chairman. We have thus also re-tabled the debate on the motion for a resolution on item No. 436, which I would also advise against. Then the motion to part No. 439: "calls on the government to compensate care workers if they lose their allowances due to their hard work in the corona crisis." I have just explained this, and Mr Van Huffelen has already explained it: this cannot be because of the way the surcharges work. That would mean that you know what made the salary higher than last year, and you can't see that. You can't tell if they're a result of overtime or not. You can't make that distinction. That's one. Two. Legally, you cannot make a justified distinction between care workers and other employees. That is where the principle of equality applies. That would mean that you can no longer handle the surcharge system. So this motion is simply not feasible, as much as I would like it to be. The motion in part No. So 439 I advise against. Then the motion to part No. 440: "calls on the government no longer to label the meat sector as a vital sector'. The meat sector is, of course, just part of the food chain, so you can't do that. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. Then the motion to part No. 441: "calls on the government under the direction of the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America to present an ambitious plan of action to significantly reduce the risk of the development of zoonoses" on Prinsjesdag. I would like to make a commitment on this, but perhaps you could take a look at the motion. On Prinsjesdag means that we already have work to do and we also have a lot of other work to do. So I think Prince's Day is too early. That's one. Two. An "ambitious plan of approach" also suggests that we are going to prevent zoonoses from the small Netherlands. I think that's a little too ambitious. I do think we have lessons to learn, also at this point. It is quite right what Mrs Ouwehand says, those cases of zoonoses are indeed a major threat to our public health. These cases of zoonoses do not all arise in the Netherlands, fortunately not. These may occur all over the world, but this whole crisis is at least a wake-up call that we have to take seriously the threat of zoonoses. If you give me a little more time, I would really hope: at the end of the year, to actually learn lessons from recent times and to do something thorough with them and to ask my part partners, like Wageningen, to think with us, then I would very much like to get to work on this task, because I think it is a very legitimate task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u555	That's very nice. I'm sure I'm willing to do that. So "on Prince's Day" goes out and the minister gets more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u556	Okay. And a "plan of action" becomes more of a "review" or "learning lessons and involving international lessons" if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u557	Yes. It is not a question of the Netherlands interfering in other countries' policies, but it is clearly stated in the recitals that the Netherlands has a role to play. If deforestation presents a risk to zoonoses and the Netherlands contributes to deforestation, then the Netherlands can do something there. That's how the Minister should read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u558	I get that. I'd like to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u559	So the motion is being changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u560	Yes. I'm gonna change the motion. "On Prince's Day" goes out. Then the judgment is Chamber, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u561	Then I'm sure I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber, yes. If I can explain the plan of action the way I just did, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u562	That's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u563	Debates of the European Parliament has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas COVID-19, like SARS, swine flu and Q fever, is a zoonoses, and that 60% to 75% of new infectious diseases are caused by the transmission of animal diseases to humans;]] [[Considering that for years, virologists have therefore warned that (global) deforestation, the loss of biodiversity, wildlife trade and the accumulation of large numbers of animals in livestock farming pose increasing risks for the emergence of new zoonoses and pandemics;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is a major importer of deforestation products such as palm oil and soya for animal feed, has the highest livestock density in the world and is an important hub in global wildlife trade with Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam;]] [[Notes that a new zoonotic pandemic such as corona should be prevented;]] [[calls on the government, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America, to present an ambitious plan of action by the end of the year to reduce significantly the risk of zoonoses, addressing the root causes in a coherent manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 441 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u564	Then the motion to part No. 442. It is about the law to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. At least that's a bit of a separate order. I could ask the petitioners to hold this motion until the law arrives, until you deal with him. That's more of an appropriate time to file such a motion. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u565	But the Chamber has been informed in detail that that law is coming, if I recall correctly, in the letter of 1 May. There's been some discussion about it, too. It happens often that in the Chamber picket posts are given about what we attach to. It is not a criticism of a version that we do not know, but it is something that these authors would at least like, in the wake of a social and legal debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u566	That would have been me by now, that you would attach to it. I think I'm attached to it myself. I don't see any crazy things in it either, but it's just the form that matters to me. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to make legislative proposals in consultation, if this immediately means that there will be motions for a law that is only in consultation, which has not yet been adopted at all. That is a bit strange in the order of things, so I would ask you to keep that order and therefore hold this motion. If it's accepted, I won't call the king immediately, I don't believe that. It's not like I'm rolling out of my chair, not at all. I think I agree quite well with the observations you're making, were it not that they're about a law you don't know yet and I still have to establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u567	But Mr Van der Staaij does not hold the motion. What's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u568	Well, that's hard, Mr. Chairman. Because if I betray the motion now, it's like I don't agree with its content. That's complicated, too. It's almost impossible to disagree. You know, it's a crazy day, we're just giving this judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u569	That's mild.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u570	Boy, what an incredible kindness. But only if you don't sign up for the CDA's list leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u571	Mr President, I promise not to report for the CDA's list leadership, but I also have an encore: I am not available as Prime Minister either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u572	That's a relief, I see. There's no reason to laugh so hard, guys. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u573	It's pretty high up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u574	No, on the contrary, I'm in the mood. In the Azarkan motion in part No. 443 states that "it is possible and necessary to act more transparently'. I believe that much more transparent than I have acted in the development of that app is not possible, I think. Mr Azarkan has been terrified, but I do not think that there could be even more transparency. There was an advice that there should be an app. Then I said that I thought it would be a very good idea, in support of the source and contact research, and that we were going to see what already exists in the market. We put that in an appathon opposite each other. The whole society has been able to watch live on a Saturday, even more so; more streamviews than the D66 Congress on that Saturday. Then the whole of society had an opinion on it, so much more transparent than I think it could have, so I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 444: calls on the government to carry out an additional study on test readiness among the Dutch population. That is such a seamless description of what we are doing that I would dare to put the judgment here superfluous and thus dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 447: calls on the government to take the lead by identifying why there are nursing homes that have not yet relaxed their policies. That is actually support for policy, in the sense that the space that is now available should simply be used. We like to look together with the nursing home sector at what it takes to actually use that space. In that sense, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber on this motion. Then the motion to part No. 448: calls on the government, in consultation with interested parties, to examine the possibilities for early detection of the corona virus in nursing homes. I am also going to leave the judgment to the Chamber, because we have the most ingenious system of using sewage water surveillance as an early warning and this might make it even more ingenious. I'm going to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That's it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u575	Thank you. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u576	Mr. Chairman. In the Veldman/Tellegen motion in part No. 429 the government is asked not to make any substantive comments on the roadmap. I didn't intend to interfere much during the consultation. I hope, moreover, that the consultation will be broader than just the profession. I think it would be very good if, for example, the nurses and civil society organisations were also involved. To ask the government not to make any substantive comments on what is also a social debate, I really do go too far. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. The Marijnissen c.s. motion in piece No. 437, in which I am asked to draw up a plan to promote sport and move in different sectors, I believe that policy support is needed, given what I have said. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u577	Thank you. Was that your last debate, I ask the Minister for Medical Care. I hear you have another one on Monday. Then I'll keep my little chat to myself. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u578	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. To all those people who think that my relationship with the VWS minister is not so good, I say: it's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u579	Is that what you're saying on my behalf?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u580	Yes, I'll say that on your behalf. We're gonna have a cup of coffee on that one, too. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u581	And a bite to eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-9.u582	Yeah, and a bite to eat. We're definitely gonna do that. Thank you very much for the answers and I thank the Members of Parliament.
