ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the PvdA, to ask the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, whom I welcome, about missing asylum seekers. I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	I wasn't allowed to run, so I won't ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings, prostitution, drug trafficking, baby factories, voodoo murder; heartbreaking practices with Dutch COA as an undesirable hub. Last year alone, 961 Nigerian women disappeared from the Dutch shelter. Last Saturday, the radio show Argos presented a painful picture of how serious it is, but unfortunately it is not new. Twenty years ago Nigerian girls also disappeared on a large scale in the Netherlands. In response, a major police investigation was launched in 2006 which highlighted the way in which human traffickers and the Nigerian Mafia were working. But at the moment, there are no more investigations. History seems to be repeating itself. Unacceptable, because we leave vulnerable pregnant women and their future children to their fate. Then, 20 years ago, there were dozens of Nigerian women. It's almost a thousand now. My question to the Secretary of State is: does she recognize herself in these numbers? If so, how does the Secretary of State feel that we are now twenty years away, the problem has only got worse and nothing has changed? Is the Secretary of State ready again to carry out serious investigations into large-scale trafficking in human beings among Nigerian women, of course in cooperation in Europe, with investigative bodies such as Interpol and Europol, and West African authorities? I would also like to know the following from the Secretary of State. We see that it is becoming increasingly difficult for these vulnerable women and girls to obtain proper protection in the Netherlands. They'll be deported on a regular basis before they can file a report. What measures does the Secretary of State intend to take to ensure that these women have access to protection? Finally. Why don't we have special care for these women? Why don't we have COA employees trained to protect these women?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. First of all, let me say that I fully agree with Mrs Kuik that this is terrible. But I'm gonna have to straighten something out right away. You asked me if I recognize myself in these numbers; 961 disappeared Nigerian women, Mrs Kuik said. Indeed, 961 people have disappeared from the shelter. Of those, 78% were men and the rest were women. That still remains more than 150, 160 women, so that is still very serious in itself, but there are no 961. I'm just saying that to give the numbers. Trafficking in human beings is a very serious crime and often has traumatic consequences for the victims. The reports that have been published, the messages from Argos and the NRC, are therefore very worrying. As I have said, I share those concerns with Mrs. Chicken. It is difficult to do anything in the shelter, because those we receive will not be locked up. They can leave. They can leave on their own. The second thing that's tricky is the tracking. When people have disappeared, a lot is being done to track them down, but it is very difficult to track down people who have disappeared without any information where. I don't want to trivialize it with that. I just want to point out that these two factors play a role. Mrs Kuik draws a parallel with the so-called Koolfish case and the departure with unknown destination of Nigerian and Vietnamese migrants at that time and also in recent years. Since the Koolvis case, considerable steps have been taken in the Netherlands to shape the approach to trafficking in human beings. Something's changed after all. There's protected shelter coming in. The Netherlands has become involved in the EMPACT programme, the European programme against trafficking in human beings. The EMM has arrived, the Expertise Centre for Trafficking in Human Beings and Trafficking in Human Beings. There are also all kinds of training courses for professionals in the foreign chain, at the AVIM, the IND, the COA, the DTN&V, to identify signs of human trafficking. Those trainings are given very regularly. As a result of the Koolfish case, the protected reception for minor asylum seekers has also been established. For adult victims of trafficking in human beings there is the Categoral Reception Victims Trafficking in Human beings. Signs of trafficking in human beings are shared with the EMM by COA employees, among others, with the Human Trafficking and Trafficking Expertise Centre. Those signals are also being transmitted. The COA transmits the signals to the local police and also to the EMM. In the EMM are the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the KMar and the SZW Inspection. They will then check whether there are trends and concrete signals and then make recommendations to the various investigative bodies. Those who are victims of trafficking in human beings can also report to the police themselves, but that is, of course, a very difficult situation. That's not something that happens all the time. That's tricky, too. So far, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have not seen any reason to launch an investigation into what has been reported last year to people who have left the shelter, but all the organisations involved are extremely alert to identify possible signs of trafficking in human beings. We do not know, however, what is the increase in the number of Nigerian asylum seekers leaving for an unknown destination. There will be an exploration of the increase in the number of Dublin applicants who reported trafficking in human beings in 2019, and that exploration will be based on the Segers/Buitenweg motion, which was adopted in this Chamber at the time. This exploration will hopefully also be able to provide more information on the Nigerian asylum seekers group, but I would like to say to Mrs Kuik that, given that I think this is a terrible situation, I think it is important to carry out a phenomenon study as well. I'll order that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	Just a little more specific. We know that Nigeria is about the heart of trafficking in human beings, trafficking in women and trafficking in babies. Benin is specifically appointed. These include not only women, but also men, who are used for both prostitution and drug trafficking. If we just focus on those highly pregnant women who enter the COA, who do not receive separate protective care and leave in large numbers with an unknown destination, then I would like to know from the Secretary of State why at least these highly pregnant women are not being targeted. Why don't we at least offer them protection? They are not underage and therefore actually fall between shore and ship. Two, why don't we see if they should be helped to file charges, get a lawyer? We all know that talking isn't easy when you're traumatized, if you have family that's under pressure and if there may be several children in danger. The Secretary of State is talking about a phenomenon investigation. I would also like to know whether she is talking specifically about this Nigerian issue or whether it is a phenomenon study in the broad sense. I think that's what's missing the point. The rapporteur on Human Trafficking and the Public Prosecutor also say that you really need specific knowledge, both at the COA and at the police, because otherwise you don't know what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	First of all, Mrs Kuik's further question as to why there is no focus on the highly pregnant women. The pregnancy of some women is visible, but a lot of other women are not known to be pregnant. I've had questions asked whether the COA knows how many pregnant women there are among the numbers mentioned, but they can't say that. The only way they can see it is if someone's pregnant. It might be possible to focus on that, but that is a much more limited number than the number suggested here in the first instance. Shouldn't they be helped? Yes, there is help at the COA, because there are contacts for trafficking in human beings and smuggling in all locations and there is contact with them. That's what they're talking about. So it is not so much a suggestion that I really want to get rid of it as a suggestion that people come to the COA and are left to their fate, while they are victims of trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings. Human trafficking is in this case. That's what contacts are for, and that's what attention is for. Signals are being picked up. They are passed on by the COA to the EMM and they are working really hard on it, only it is a very difficult phenomenon, I must say. Is it a phenomenon study in the broad sense or is it only aimed at Nigeria? The aim is to investigate the people who are victims of trafficking in human beings, to be in care with us and to leave them. Where are they going? That phenomenon needs to be investigated, not necessarily just people from Nigeria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	All in all, I find it very disappointing, because we are not going back to shelter for these very vulnerable women. They're being sent back too quickly, including to Italy, when we just know they're not safe there. In the answer itself, the COA states that "no, we do not have specific knowledge, we do not receive them and therefore we cannot provide them with sufficient protection." Those are just political choices being made. If you're blind to that, if you don't want to do good research, if you don't want to offer protection and no specific help and knowledge aimed at this group, then you're actually blind to the real problems. I find that really, really heartbreaking and disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	Although I agree with Mrs Kuik that it is a very worrying whole that we have heard and seen and experienced here, I would like to say that it is not right that there is no shelter for this special category. For adult victims of trafficking in human beings, the category of victims is trafficking in human beings. That's specific. And to Italy too soon? The answer is: no, that is not happening, but for all kinds of reasons, the return from Dublin to Italy has been very difficult, if not impossible, in recent years. That is not the case either. We're not blind to it. They're working hard on it. But because I also like it when we've figured that out, I'd like to say to Mrs. Kuik that there's going to be a good investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I have Mrs Kuik, Mr Bouali, Mr Bisschop, Mrs Van der Graaf, Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Brenn. Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	My question is whether the Secretary of State can give us an idea of how this is going in practice. At the end of 2019, the CDA submitted a proposal to cooperate with source countries and transition countries and multilateral organisations to step up the human trafficking approach. Then there is a warning coming from Nigeria: beware, we see that we are dealing with baby. Then what happens here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	I was in Nigeria in November to talk about this precisely; not specifically about baby trafficking, I must tell you, but about trafficking in human beings. There is very good contact with Nigeria about this. It's just not fixed today or tomorrow. Cooperation with Nigeria is good, but in the meantime people are disappearing from the shelter. That's what we're trying to do, but we can't hold them. That's a handicap. I'd rather be able to talk to someone who can't get out, but unfortunately that's not the case. So: yes, we're trying to do everything we can. Yeah, I'm talking to Nigeria. Those are good conversations. I have good contacts with them; DT&V and COA also have good contacts with Nigeria. Nevertheless, it remains a problem. I'm afraid I can't make it prettier than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	We have often met here in the Chamber to discuss this issue. A while ago, it was about Vietnamese. It's a persistent problem. My colleague from the Labour Party clearly pointed that out. I see the Secretary of State is making promises. That's important. But it's a complicated chain. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State is focusing more clearly on the investigation and prosecution, so that we ensure that the people who are guilty of this trafficking of human beings, this Secretary of State is well-known for her decisive action..................................................................................................................................................................................................... My suggestion to the Secretary of State is: can she see if she can give a brief instruction to our police liaisons to cooperate more closely at European level? Because it also happens in France and it also happens in Belgium. And can the Secretary of State promise that it will come up with an action plan on how judicial cooperation can be developed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	I have just said that the Netherlands is a tractor of EMPACT. EMPACT in the field of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is European criminal law cooperation in this area. EMPACT is available in several areas, but also specifically for trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. The Netherlands is a trigger, is very active in this and is trying to get everyone together at European level to make sure we go behind this. It is not a local Dutch problem; it really is a European problem. We are very committed to this. As regards stepping up the approach to trafficking in human beings, last year there was the Segers/Asscher motion, which added 10 million more. This is for additional people at AVIM and additional training; this money is being used intensively to ensure that we can deal with trafficking in human beings. But like I said, as far as tracking is concerned, it's tricky. If people leave the shelter voluntarily, it's very difficult for the police to track it down. I can't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you. Let me start by quoting a headline. It says: National hotline needed for missing young asylum seekers. As the Secretary of State will no doubt remember, the headline dates from January 1979. Since then, almost every year we have had reports of dozens of girls who have disappeared from asylum-seekers' centres, such as 1,600 asylum-seekers disappeared from their reception location, dozens of pregnant African women, you name it. It takes the courage of me. The Secretary of State outlines what has happened in the meantime, while the disappearance of those minor asylum seekers or women has continued. In other words, these measures have not been effective. What will the Secretary of State do to prevent another headline from being published this year or next year that so many dozens of young asylum seekers or women have disappeared from azc's?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	I understand Mr Bishop's appeal very well. I must say, however, that it is not the case that underage women disappear. In this respect, we must avoid misunderstandings. Mr Bishop referred to a 1979 report on a national hotline. He thought, "The Secretary of State is old enough, he'll remember." I remember something said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	You might remember that from the history books.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u19	No, Mr. Bishop!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr President, that was my fault, because I challenged Mr Bishop. Yeah, a nationwide hotline. We need to be able to keep it administratively, but it's about whether we can do something about it, if we can catch the human traffickers. That's what it's all about. We need to protect the victims of the human traffickers. We're doing the best we can for that. Dublin claims are granted a temporary residence permit when they come to the Netherlands and can rely on trafficking in human beings. It's already in place. We also have special care and so on. People are present in reception centres specifically for the purpose of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. We're trying to do a lot of things about it. What matters is that the human traffickers and the smugglers are caught. That is much more difficult, but for that the Netherlands is very busy at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u21	That last call was taken from my heart. We have to deal with these human traffickers. Unfortunately, the figures show a different picture. We've been able to track down much less human trafficking cases. One of the reasons for this was the large influx from West African countries. That's extra harsh and painful in this story. Yesterday I received answers to my parliamentary questions on this matter. It was said that exploratory discussions were still taking place on the phenomenon research. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has now indicated that a real phenomenon study is being carried out on this group. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State another question. She just indicated that it's complicated and difficult for victims to report. There was a fantastic pilot victimization that helped with this, but he wants to cut down the Secretary of State. Why don't we just go through with the pilot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u22	There is a very simple answer to Mrs Van der Graaf's question. I'm going to look very seriously and very carefully at whether we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u23	We hear terrible things about this, like baby business. It's very bad for these vulnerable people. What is striking is that Nigeria is now in the top three countries of origin of asylum seekers in the Netherlands, while people from Nigeria are hardly ever entitled to asylum. This means that these people in Nigeria are told a nice story about the possibilities in the Netherlands by traffickers and smugglers. These asylum seekers are getting cheated out of this. Those human traffickers are abusing our asylum shelter. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. What can she do to make arrangements with Nigeria to stop people there already? She was there in November. And the second question: what can she do to detect if these people are still in the shelter or perhaps even when they arrive there? They're being taken by someone. I tabled a motion on this with Mr Van Ojik. Can more be done to roll up these networks at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u24	As far as Nigeria is concerned, within the European EMPACT organisation, 'embect' or 'empt', I don't know exactly how to pronounce it, there is a project against trafficking in human beings. A working group called ETUTU is active in this area, which deals specifically with Nigerian trafficking in human beings. Over the past year, many more people from Nigeria have come to the Netherlands through secondary migration than before. We're trying to figure out how and why that happened, because suddenly there was a huge boost. We are talking to Nigeria about whether we can't do much more ourselves in Nigeria to make sure that we can stop it, but there are some very difficult things to do. This also has to do with the situation in Nigeria. A lot of people live below the poverty line. People have the idea: how can I get out of here? That's worrying, and we're trying to do something about it. We're looking at what measures are possible with Nigeria, but that's... We are committed to this as much as we can, Mr. Chairman. That is all I can say about this. As far as detectives are concerned, the EMM, the Expertise Centre on Trafficking in Human Beings and Trafficking in Human Beings are immediately informed of the signals. It is very clear which people enter the Netherlands via a B8. A B8 is a temporary residence permit for suspected trafficking in human beings. The person in question is therefore not a suspect, but there is a suspicion that there is trafficking in human beings here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u25	Good. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u26	So, yeah, they're all paying attention to that. So it's tricky. I'd love to say I could fix it, but it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u27	Did you have a second question? No? First Mrs Van Brenk on behalf of 50PLUS, then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u28	By the way, Argos' research compliments on their work also shows a very poignant picture of a woman who is seven months pregnant and who is herself concerned about trafficking in human beings. She is afraid that the man who made her pregnant is in it. The Secretary of State says: yes, but there are well-educated people at the COA. This woman gives the signal herself, but still she disappears. Then the Secretary of State can't say with dry eyes that it works, can he? Then it's a failure, isn't it? How are we going to address this problem now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u29	As I said, there are special coordinators at the COA to help in trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. The COA staff are all trained to identify and detect signs of trafficking in human beings. If they see it, they'll pass it on to the expertise center. The centre of expertise will work on this. I find the case of this lady very sad and apparently this has happened, but it should not have been possible because all the possibilities are there. I hope it can stay with such a single case, because we are on top of it. That's why I think it's important that we start doing this phenomenon research now, to really figure out what's going on, what's going on, what we can do and where we're failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u30	It's not the first time we've talked about this. When I listen to this debate, the conclusion is that everything has happened and been put into effect, but it has not helped. We're losing the fight against human trafficking. Otherwise, we cannot explain that more than 950, 960 Nigerians can disappear from the shelter without even knowing where the people have gone. The Secretary of State can very well explain that it's difficult and that it's complicated. It's hard to do anything at the shelter, and it's hard to report it. It's hard to put something in the BOLO. But my question is: is the only thing the Secretary of State says about these figures, now that she's going to do another investigation? Or will there also be additional policies in the search, additional policies in reception, additional policies in information and additional policies in relation to Nigeria and other countries where smugglers find their basis, in order to prevent us from standing here again in six months' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u31	With the money from the Segers/Asscher motion, we are working on extra efforts, extra training and extra detection, precisely to curb trafficking in human beings. Mr Van Ojik says that we have lost the fight against trafficking in human beings. I don't know how big the human trafficking would have been if we hadn't done anything at all. It could have been a lot worse. They're working hard on it. Again, with the money from the motion, a whole program is set up. The Netherlands is working much harder with the European programme and with its cooperation with Nigeria. There is also PROMIS, funded by the Netherlands and implemented by the UN Office for Drugs and Crime in West Africa. There are also two Nigerian prosecutors stationed in Italy and Spain. In short, a lot is being done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you. Now let's go to the last question.
