ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the final part of the debate on the Rule 100 letter on engagement in the fight against ISIS. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence. As usual, speaking time is three minutes, Mr Van Helvert. It's one term. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut. No, sorry, Mr. Van Ojik. Mrs Karabulut looked at me so much that I thought: you're next. Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has always supported the Dutch contribution to the fight against ISIS. This applies both to the objectives of these successive missions, the protection of the population of Iraq and the promotion of stability in the region, as well as to the way in which they operate. I have always stressed here that precisely this integrated approach, the joint use of military resources, diplomatic means and development cooperation, is a prerequisite for a successful contribution to the development of Iraq. In the debate we have had today on the Article 100 letter following the deployment of Dutch soldiers for the protection of Erbil airport, I have expressed concerns. The main concern lies in the role of the Iraqi government, the Iraqi authorities, in promoting stability. There is a government in Iraq that does not deter large-scale and systematic violence against its own population, with hundreds of deaths and thousands injured so far. There is a lack of inclusiveness in, for example, the involvement of Sunnis and the equal benefit of reconstruction to all groups in the population etc. And there are dubious ties with the regime in Iran. The most recent and very harsh example is Iraq's involvement in the arrest and extradition of Ruhollah Zam, the Iranian journalist. It is only because he did his job, brutally put to death last weekend by the Iranian regime. He's been hanged. I am pleased that the Minister in general agreed this morning to ask the Iraqi authorities about the exact role of Iraq in the arrest and extradition process. I also welcome the emphasis that the Netherlands will continue to place on the need for an independent investigation into violence against its own population. On that last point, I will be happy to support a motion by Mrs Karabulut, whom she is about to table. I co-signed that motion. Mr. Chairman. We can agree with the contribution of Dutch men and women to the security of Erbil airport. We wish the women and men who are going to perform this heavy task a great deal of strength and success. The same goes, of course, for all those who are left behind. We all hope that everyone will return safely at the end of this mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr President. One of us was wondering out loud in the debate, and I believe the Minister said this: how long will it take to achieve stability in Iraq and in the region? We ask ourselves this sometimes with slight despair in our voices. I imagine what it's like to live there and see over and over again that what you've built up with your family doesn't turn out to be permanent, because a terror group is going to destroy everything or there are demonstrations that are being beaten down bloody by the government, which you thought would protect you. In short, people are going through a very difficult time. I am not even talking about the impunity that prevails despite all good intentions when it comes to the crimes committed by ISIS. Not all criminals have been tried. It doesn't make any sense at all, if I may put it that way, with the trial on the spot. I would like to encourage the Ministers to continue their efforts to achieve this, above all, and to ask them once again to look for a plan B and a plan C. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party has always supported the fight against IS. We will do the same now. We believe that a contribution to the stability of that area, of that region, should consist of a diplomatic commitment by the Netherlands, the EU and the international community. Think of development cooperation, demining and providing psychosocial assistance for the traumatized girls and women from the Jezidi community who have been abused by IS. In short, we must do what we can. We owe it to them. Again, anyone who disagrees, I invite you to imagine for five minutes what it's like to live there. Mr. Chairman. So we're in agreement. We wish the women and the men who are going to secure the airport much strength and success. We wish them a safe return, of course. We know that it is also a difficult time for those who stay at home, so we also wish them much strength. Again, a safe return for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. IS is a terrible enemy. That enemy must be defeated. As Mrs Ploumen has just pointed out, imagine living there and watching your future fall apart every time. The Netherlands' contribution to defeating terrorism and IS is very important, not only for the countries in which ISIS is directly active, but also to prevent evil from coming to the Netherlands. In this respect, Dutch participation in the security of Erbil airport, as part of a broader international commitment, can effectively contribute to the building of the Iraqi rule of law and security. We hope that will not take too long. Reconstruction is also directly in the interest of the Netherlands. The SGP Group therefore considers this to be a responsible alliance. Mr. Chairman. In general consultation I referred to the title of the book It becomes evening, the day is already coming to an end, written by Robert Sarah and Nicolas Diat. To Minister Blok: I did not mean that as a gloomy, but as a hopeful perspective. Because hopefully we will come to the night of Islamic terrorism. From there, that hope. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of hope, a few days before Christmas, I'd like to add something to that. For with the coming of Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the dawn has finally arrived. The Book of the Bible Isaiah, I have brought it with me in the ninth chapter, fifth verse, says: "For a Child is born to us, a Son is given to us, and the dominion is upon His shoulder; and His name is called Wonderful, Counsel, Strong God, Father of eternity, Prince of Peace." Mr. Chairman. In the perspective of this shalom I wish our soldiers and all who have been sent out for our peace and security of heart God's blessing above all a preserved future... homecoming and future of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u7	Also. Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. IS is absolute evil. We all know of the barbaric acts committed by IS fighters. Genocide, enslaving children, torture of the worst kind; it is terrible. It's terrible for the people there. Thousands and thousands of people have been victims, but millions of people have also lived under the rule of IS. Fortunately, due to the international struggle, ISIS has now been reduced very far, but that battle is not over yet. In addition, this is also a battle for the Netherlands, because IS is also a danger to Europe and the Netherlands. We must therefore continue to contribute to this. The Netherlands has been part of the international coalition that has fought that battle for many years now. We should be very proud of the men and women who have done this for us. Now there is a request from the international coalition that our men and women contribute to guarding an airport in northern Iraq from where that battle is being fought. That is a very concrete and valuable mission. We must therefore support them. This morning we discussed all the conditions, the medical conditions, the security of our troops, the stability or lack of them in the region itself, because we must support our men and women who are going to do this for us as much as possible and minimise the risks where this can be done. Mr. Chairman. This mission is a concrete mission, an important mission. The VVD wholeheartedly supports it. Of course, we wish our men and women who go there every success. We also wish the home front a great deal of strength. And of course we wish everyone a safe return home. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The use of the cabinet cannot, of course, be seen in isolation from the historical perspective. What did it all start with? The war on terror. In the meantime, this war on terror has cost more lives than it will ever save. More than 1 million innocent people have already died of this senseless violence and more than 10 million people have fled. Innocent children growing up in the havoc, partly caused by Dutch bombings. Mothers forced to search for the bodies of their loved ones between the debris after yet another bombardment. And when these people flee to the Netherlands for a better future, they are also terrorized by their own neighbours, as happened in Heerlen the past period. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is well aware that the invasion of Iraq in 2003 - the catalyst of all misery, the start of the war on terror - has been declared completely illegal. Not only by former UN boss Kofi Annan, but also by former British Prime Minister Tony Blair and many others. But what does our minister do? What does our government do? We're gonna deploy more troops. We all know that if an African country was responsible for the most violent, long-term and illegal invasion of this century, we would have brought it to justice. It is therefore incomprehensible that we should overlook this when it comes to the United States. The Netherlands has been chasing the United States like a headless chicken for 17 years. Surely the Minister is aware that America's selfish strategy of self-interest is directly responsible for Daesh's revival? For 17 years we have tried to combat violence by force following an illegal invasion. For 17 years, countries in the Middle East have been disturbed by the consequences of the incursions, useless terror and refugee flows. For 17 years, the arms industry has been able to earn billions over the backs of innocent people. Seventeen years later, the Dutch Government still pretends that we have brought peace, while the US, after endless struggles, recognize the Taliban as a legitimate actor by sitting with them at the table. Why? For interests, self-interest, raw materials, oil, money and power. I would say at least be honest with us as to why we should contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. We at DENK do not believe in evil with retribution. We believe that the root causes of conflict must be removed. We do not believe in this pointless struggle. A battle that puts the lives of thousands of innocent people even more at risk. A battle that exhausts people, resources and systems and brings them to harm for years. DENK asks this cabinet to put an end to this immediately. However, we know the proportions in this Chamber; the majority unfortunately want to participate in this illegal war. Having said that, we wish the boys and girls sent on mission a safe mission and a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. Even though we have arrived in the final phase of the military campaign, the battle has not yet been decided. The evil that is called ISIS often raises its head in Iraq with unexpected attacks, shelling and other bloodshed. My group sees the commitment proposed by the cabinet as appropriate within the broader efforts to combat and defeat ISIS and extremism in Iraq. My group also believes that this mission contributes to the stability of Iraq and thus to its inhabitants. Therefore, D66 agrees with the proposed mission to send 100 to 150 soldiers to Erbil International Airport. I would like to stress that defeating ISIS does not directly mean victory for Iraq. The country still has a long way to go, and even after the military campaign many of the allies will be asked. D66 is concerned about Iran's role in Iraq and asks the Minister to keep the Chamber informed of any development that increases the level of risk for our military. As far as communication within the coalition is concerned, I would like to stress once again to the Minister that he must continue to press the United States for good and, above all, timely communication. Finally. The cabinet indicated that this mission will be deployed from the end of the year. That means they'll leave for Christmas or maybe after. In any case, I hope that the men and women on the air can have a good Christmas with their own family or friends. If that is not possible, then I would like to thank family and friends for the sacrifice they are making to ensure that peace and security can be achieved elsewhere. I wish all men and women who are sent to Erbil and the Dutch kite a safe stay and a safe homecoming. And as I just said, I wish those who stay at home very much strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, from October last year onwards, the Iraqi security forces have deployed brutal repression against demonstrators, with many hundreds dead and tens of thousands injured, which has been called Amnesty International a massacre;]] [[noting that, more than a year later, no responsible person was punished for this and that even a committee of inquiry has not yet been set up;]] [[Notes that deadly violence against demonstrators has also been deployed in Iraq in recent months;]] [[considers that impunity should be combated;]] [[whereas the Netherlands supports Iraq in a variety of ways, including through training of the security services, but also military;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Iraqi authorities to take serious action to punish the perpetrators of last year's massacre and, if not in the foreseeable future, to take appropriate action against the country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-759]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u15	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands, for the first time since the unveiling of the many civilian deaths in Hawija, is going to participate in air strikes in Iraq;]] [[Whereas the parliamentary debate on the bombing of Hawija has led to the strengthening of directives on transparency, new agreements on communication to the Chamber and the importance of good visibility and involvement in the target development process has been stressed during this discussion;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber, in accordance with the appropriate policy, of military engagement over Iraq and its consequences and to ensure close involvement in the target development process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-760]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. My party prefers that we do not send more soldiers to Iraq again. The only reason I have been able to discover in answering the many questions we have put to the government is allergic'responsibility'. But how can you speak of responsibility? Isn't it irresponsible when one of your most important allies, the United States, is an unreliable partner, who doesn't even inform our country about their own political program in Iraq, which is aimed at Iran and which will make us a target in northern Iraq? And is it not irresponsible of our government for them to go against the will and wishes of the American people, but also against the wishes of a large majority of the Dutch population in the country, which I am convinced will continue to wage permanent warfare? This has led us to the insecurity which the cabinet claims to fight for decades. Finally, Mr President. Is it not incomprehensible that very fine words are being spoken here by many parties about us pretending to be about the security of the Iraqis, while those same Iraqis are being oppressed and murdered by all kinds of militias under the responsibility of the state, and our government is supporting and protecting that state? I think it's a great shame. Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, a large majority in this Chamber will agree to this mission. I wish our military, these men and women, safety, of course. I hope they will return to our country in a healthy and safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The battle that is still being fought in Syria and Iraq against remaining terrorist cells of IS is a task for the security units of those countries there, not for those of the Netherlands. The PVV is not convinced that Dutch troops are necessary for the security of Erbil airport in Iraqi Kurdistan. Their task is in the Netherlands, to help protect our country and our people from terrorist attacks here in the Netherlands. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government not to extend the Dutch contribution to the anti-ISIS coalition with a company of 100 to 150 military for the security of Erbil International Airport;]] [[calls on the government to end the already ongoing Dutch contribution to the anti-ISIS coalition immediately, to send the military safely home and to deploy our army to protect our own borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-761]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u19	If the mission is carried out as the government wants to, and it looks like it is, we wish the Dutch military much strength and success and, above all, a safe return to the Netherlands. We also wish their loved ones strength in the loss of the soldiers to be sent out. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. Last week, on 10 December, Iraq celebrated its third national holiday for the victory over ISIS. IS is territorially defeated, partly thanks to the fantastic efforts of the women and men of Defense Netherlands. However, under the radar IS is not yet gone. That is why we cannot leave Iraq now, not abandon it. The task of the Dutch women and men at the airport Erbil is assessed as a low level of threat. Earlier this day we discussed this in general consultation. On the other hand, we see that there are still several threats that we really need to be very careful about. We ask the Minister to stay very focused on this and to keep the Chamber informed. I am thinking, for example, of the militias still active in Iraq, which have ties with Iran and on which the Iraqi Government is still unable to get a grip. The visit of Pope Francis to Iraq, which is very nice and positive, will also lead to the necessary additional security measures, because the Pope also does Erbil to. Iraq is far from there. There is still a lot of water to flow through the Euphrates before everything goes well in Iraq. In the end, we have to cooperate in this as the Netherlands. Especially after this third Sunday of the Advent, we can hope, look and rejoice that there is something better, because in the end, hope is that in us that lasts, despite all the arguments on the contrary, that we have something better to wait for if we have the courage to reach out to it, if we have the courage to work for it and if we have the courage to fight for it. That is what our women and men are going to do on behalf of the Dutch government. We wish our women and men every success, very much strength. That is what we wish for the families that are left behind. We will take them into our thoughts and prayers. We wish them a safe return, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u22	Brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u23	Does Mr Van Helvert also wish the violence against his own people to cease from the Iraqi Government? If so, does he support our proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u24	I believe that we have already discussed in many debates that nobody in this Chamber is in favour of the violence that the government of Iraq has directed to its own citizens. That is why we have just said: Iraq is far from there. There's still a lot of water flowing through the Euphrates before everything goes well in Iraq. At the moment when we would say 'we will stop supporting Iraq', those who suffer most are the same people Mrs Karabulut wants to stand up for. Supporting the Iraqi government in keeping away from ISIS finally gives the government of Iraq time to get their own affairs in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u25	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u26	The government of Iraq is currently killing its own citizens. This is an evasive answer, because the CDA, like the cabinet, like this VVD minister, does not want to impose any condition on the aid, military and non-military, that is given to this regime. That's bad. Then my follow-up question is: can Mr Van Helvert explain to me why these Iraqi young people, all demonstrating for bread, for a job, could not guard that airport with 100 to 150 people themselves? Why is that according to Mr Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u27	The Iraqi Government itself has indicated that they cannot do so and is asking us to do so. On the holiday, 10 December, the President of Iraq said very clearly: thanks to all the foreign support we get to keep IS out of the door. What Mrs Karabulut is proposing, in order for them to solve it themselves, is actually saying that I want the people who are suffering very badly in Iraq, who are suffering very badly in Iraq, who are being harassed by their own government, to get even worse; I want them to face an even worse situation. That is what Mrs Karabulut is proposing. The fact that not everything is going well in Iraq, in fact, that a lot of things are going badly in Iraq, is no reason to close your eyes and say: you know what, let them solve it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u28	Finally, Mrs Karabulut. It's been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u29	Finally, Mr President. This is a lot of rhetoric, but anything but an answer to my question. We now need 100 to 150 Dutch soldiers, an inner ring, not at the highest level of violence, to secure the airport. At the same time, there are mass protests by young people, strong men and women in Iraq, in the same area, who want a job. And what does Mr Van Helvert do? What does this cabinet do? They do not support those people to build a good future, but they support the Iraqi government, which is currently nothing but a failed state and only presents violence to the population. I am sorry that it is not even subject to one condition. That says a lot about the agenda of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u30	Yeah, this is just two different things. On the one hand, there are those in Iraq who want to have it better, who are hungry, who want to have a job. We all want to solve that in this Chamber. On the other hand, we have the fact that the airport needs to be secured now. A young man who is right to protest in Iraq today because he is hungry cannot be put in charge of airport security next week. That just takes a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you. I believe that there has been a sufficient exchange of views, including in general consultations. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were just wondering if these were the last words on behalf of the Chamber. Maybe the president's gonna talk to us tonight. Then these would be the last words of this debate if we did not have a debate on the vaccine tonight. We have talked extensively about this mission, to continue to fight that terrible terrorist organization called ISIS. The danger, the threat to the Kurds, the Jezidis and the Christians, remains real in that area. We must not abandon them at this time. So much respect for the troops and for this government, which takes the courageous decision to send these soldiers that way. Our concerns about arms, the possibilities of staying there safely, the means of transport and the evacuation were taken away by the cabinet this morning in the debate. That is why the Christian Union can agree to the mission. It is a mission to protect the lifeline to Kurdistan, the Kurdish region. Mr. Chairman. We've had several religious communities along the way. Mr Stoffer mentioned Isaiah. Mr Van Helvert spoke of the Pope. I believe Mr De Roon, too. I would like to join in the Protestant tradition with the text of Isaiah, who indicated that we can expect the coming of Christ as a peacemaker these days. Let me therefore express the hope that our men and women, our soldiers, may be peacemakers in the coming months and next year, in the footsteps of this Peacekeeper. I wish them a great deal of wisdom, a safe mission and a safe return to their homes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you. I'll see if the minister can respond immediately. That's the case. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will respond in the order of the speakers. Mr Bijleveld will deal with the questions and motions put to her. First of all, Mr Van Ojik expressed his concern about the role of the Iraqi government. I recognize those concerns. I will indeed look into her role and knowledge of Mr Zam's abduction. In my contacts I will emphasise that I expect them to take further steps towards democracy and the rule of law. I will respond in a moment to Mrs Karabulut's motion. I would also like to thank Mr Ojik for his support. Mrs Ploumen quite rightly started by saying that it is not so much the question for us how long it will last, but especially for the people who have to live with it. For us, as a government, it brings with it the choice that we continue to take this responsibility. My appreciation to Mrs Ploumen, who expressed her support for this. This is accompanied by commitment in the field of OS, in the area of support for women and girls in particular, and indeed a commitment to trial. I sincerely hope that we do not have to keep saying to each other: how long is this going to take? Fortunately, Mr Stoffer has indicated that the dawn of the evening always leads to the conclusion that there will be another morning afterwards. I thank him for his support for this proposal. The same applies to Mr Koopmans. Mr Kuzu, who I assume will listen to remotely, disagrees with the mission. I do feel the need to correct him on his claim that this would be an illegal war. This is a mission at the request of and with the agreement of the Government of Iraq. There can be no doubt that this mission fully complies with international law. I would like to say to Mrs Belhaj that we will continue to inform the Chamber, even if there are new unexpected developments in the security situation. We will continue to communicate with the United States that if we do a joint mission, adjustments and phasing-out should take place in good consultation. Ms. Karabulut does not support the mission. She did rightly express good wishes to the troops and the family in the Netherlands. She filed two motions. The second motion will provide Mr Bijleveld with an opinion. The first motion, in part No. 759, calls on the government to urge the Iraqi authorities to take serious action to punish the perpetrators of last year's massacre and, if not in the foreseeable future, to take appropriate action against the country. The first part of the operative part, insisting on appropriate measures for punishment, is my full commitment. The second part deals with measures, which I cannot now say whether or not they are going to happen. It's not like I'm always against measures. It is true that I know that we operate in coalitions to be effective, whether military, in development cooperation or, as in this case, in promoting the rule of law. So I am not going to say without consultation with the coalition members how we are going to react if the punishment we want does not take place. So because of the second part of the operative part, I'm not suggesting the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u35	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u36	That is not what this motion is asking for either. The motion calls for appropriate measures to be taken when the Iraqi Government continues with what it is doing. I feel like the minister just doesn't want to. I honestly don't understand why, given all the misery in the country. Why doesn't he want to make any conditions and force them, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u37	We also had a rather sharp debate on this this afternoon. I indicated at that time that I needed clarification on the type of measures that Mrs Karabulut is thinking of. She reacted angry again. I would like to make it quite clear that I am not ruling out any measures, but that I do not think it is logical, since we are working in a coalition context, to say here in the Chamber as one country so clearly that the Netherlands is going to do so because the motion is addressed to the Dutch Government. That's just my honest answer and that's why I dissuade the motion. But I agree with the first part of the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u38	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u39	It can't be both true. The minister says he wants to know what measures need to be taken. When I say that these must be appropriate measures, the Minister does not give at home either. I ask this and I urge it, because we had the same debate last year. Exactly the same. The Iraqi government has promised to get better. An investigation would be started, but that investigation hasn't even started, while I'm getting day in, day out the most horrible reports of the government's victims. If the Minister is genuinely saying that he wants to consult with coalition partners first, could he please embrace this motion and come back to its content later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u40	No, Mr. Chairman, that calls for a different motion. That calls for a motion which has that as a operative part. But this motion says in all its intensity to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u41	I'm afraid you won't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u42	We do not agree, but it is clear that the Minister does not attach any condition to all this aid and commitment. That's very painful. A carte blanche, pure and only to please the allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mrs Karabulut knows very well that there are strong talks with the Iraqi government, but that the Netherlands is not the only player. We must do this in cooperation with our coalition partners. Mr De Roon once again indicated that he does not think this is a task for Dutch soldiers, but for the local, Kurdish military. He said in so many words that Dutch troops have the task of defending the Netherlands. I would like to add that if each country were to apply this rule, the Netherlands would be a very unsafe country. The safety of the Netherlands can only be guaranteed because other countries want to say with us: the safety of the Netherlands also concerns us. Then it is also logical that these countries also expect us to take that responsibility. I would also like to thank Mr Van Roon for his warm words for the troops and their family and friends. Mr Van Helvert, I would like to say that we will inform the Chamber of possible developments which could affect security, especially if Iran is involved. I agree with his approach to keeping hope. I thank him for supporting this mission. Mr Voordewind asked whether we are already speaking the famous last words. You never know, of course. Not only is the President going to speak, but it could also be that Brexit news is coming and that the Chamber might want to talk about it as well. But that's all in your hands. In any case, I would like to thank Mr Voordewind for his support. I would like to end by expressing my appreciation for the troops and their family and friends who remain in the Netherlands. I wish them a successful mission and a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u44	Thank you. The Minister did not say anything about the motion in part No. 761 by Mr De Roon. But I understand the Secretary of Defense will deal with that motion. I call the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr President, shall I begin with that motion? Mr Blok would be responsible for this motion, but you will understand that we must discourage this motion, which is contrary to what we intend to do. We spoke about this this morning. I wanted to give one more answer to Mrs Belhaj. Our men and women leave in January, so they'll be home for Christmas and old and new. I am pleased that the answers we have given to Mr Voordewind this morning on security, arms and so on have been convincing, because it is important that our men and women there should be equipped with the best equipment for their work. Mr President, I would like to make Mrs Karabulut's motion on item No. Seventy-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. As it has now been formulated, I must dissuade her. The request to the government in the operative part is "to inform the Chamber according to the appropriate policy of military engagement over Iraq and its consequences." I have no objection to that part. I also exchanged this with Mrs Belhaj in the debate this morning. However, the cabinet does object to the subsequent section "ensuring close involvement in the target development process'. We can't. Then we should be present in that whole process. That's why I'm deceiving that motion. If it were not for that last sentence, the motion could have a Chamber of Appeal, because it is clear that we will inform you according to the appropriate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u46	Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u47	Does this mean that after Hawija, the Netherlands will participate in bombing over Iraq and that we will not be closely involved in the goal development process?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u48	No, it doesn't mean that, but it says I need to ensure that close involvement. In the debate this morning, I indicated exactly how this is going, however it is based on the intelligence position: that there is one Dutch kite flying in an American squadron, that the Dutch Rules of Engagement are used, that if in doubt he can turn on the red card holder, who is the DOPS here in the Netherlands and who, in doubt, will also say no about the information and the target development process. That's how it is, but I can't insure the last part of the operative part, and I'm not going to. So if that sentence stays in place, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u49	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u50	First of all, the Minister said that we are involved. If the Netherlands is involved in the target development process, why can't the Minister ensure this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u51	I said in the debate that the coalition, which we are part of, is involved in the goal development process. It's the normal targeting process as it always goes. I've also explained how that goes. I have also indicated that we will inform the Chamber of the new rules if necessary. So that's how it is and that's why I really can't guarantee that last part to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u53	Yes, Mr President, I do not want to turn it into a bully, but if I understand the Minister correctly, she says: I have difficulty with the concept of insurance, because there is always a certain degree of uncertainty in it. If it were "to be achieved," would it be in accordance with the promise that the Minister could make?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u54	That gives a little more room, but it is the element of that close commitment, because that implies for me that you have to sit in every part of it and we cannot guarantee that. I really can't assure you that. The fact that we are involved is clear; that this goes according to normal policy. It gives a little more space, but then I'd have to say I should discourage the motion. It remains that we are actually sending you that information, but that is the first part of the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u55	Finally, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u56	I'm negotiating someone else's motion. Unashamed, but I don't think Mrs Karabulut would mind. I understand from the Minister that the word 'close' is very close. If you leave out "close" and the consequences...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u57	This is really... okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u58	If it were to be "the involvement that is normal in the goal development process" or something like that, would it be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u59	In a normal way, we are indeed involved in the target development process. That is what we exchanged in the debate. I've also indicated how it goes with accepting flights and how the red card holder is doing. I've reported all of that. I'm just gonna let my judgment pass. It is Mrs Karabulut's motion and I have indicated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u60	One, Mrs. Karabulut. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u61	One ultimate attempt, then. If we were to delete the word "close," we'd be here, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u62	What about insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u63	To achieve the goal development process, and its consequences? There are many other suggestions, but I think that the "workmen" are chic and fit with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u64	It just stays complicated. In the end, the ultimate red card holder for us is the one who says yes or no. That's the ultimate sanction there is. That's the one saying "this can be" or "this can't be." Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u65	If I could just help the minister with one thing. This requires, of course, the involvement in that goal development process, which the Minister admits should be the normal course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u66	Sure. The motion would then be superfluous, I hear Mr Van Ojik say. I was just thinking the same thing. That's exactly what I was thinking. I heard it coming to me, too. Then that part would be a form of policy support. That was the first part, by the way. That is why I had no objection to that first sentence. We're just not involved in every part. That's clear. You can't. The red card holder and the kite are ultimately the ones who have to do it. Well, come on, because it's almost Christmas. Then you must really change it, that "involvement to achieve." Or "promoting," maybe that's even better. Then "realize," let's go. Because it's almost Christmas. Then you know how I interpreted her. You heard that, with each other. I also replied to Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u67	No, no. It's obvious. Everything comes in the Acts. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u68	The Karabulut motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands, for the first time since the unveiling of the many civilian deaths in Hawija, is going to participate in air attacks on Iraq;]] [[Whereas the parliamentary debate on the bombing of Hawija has led to the strengthening of directives on transparency, new agreements on communication to the Chamber and the importance of good visibility and involvement in the target development process has been stressed during this discussion;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber, in accordance with the appropriate policy, of military engagement over Iraq and its consequences and to achieve involvement in the target development process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. , was No. 760 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u69	Finally, I would like to say a few words. It's almost Christmas, isn't it? A little time of hope, I say in the direction of everyone who has said so. I am glad that those who do not support the mission all support the men and women who are going on the road and understand how important it is to wish them all strength, strength and wisdom as Chambers. That we stand here with respect for the men and women who always end up at risk for their own lives doing their jobs, I am very happy about that. It's important that you do. I too hope that all these people will return home in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u70	Then I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of Defense. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-10.u71	Everyone's in the mood for Christmas, let's leave it at that. It has already been said by many colleagues, they have expressed their wishes and I would like to wholeheartedly endorse them. On behalf of all Members of Parliament, I wish our military, our women and men, who are sent out a safe mission and a safe homecoming. I wish the same to their family and friends, the home front. For now, I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
