ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35590, Temporary rules on elections relating to covid-19 (Temporary law on elections covid-19). I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. What a day, what a night to talk about the rules of elections here in the Senate, on the day of the most important election in the world, in the United States. In the US, the way in which voting can be done is rather politicised, especially by post. Let me be clear: we are not talking about letter votes this evening, but probably soon, because this week we received from the Minister the announcement of the second in a series of emergency laws that see a combination of elections and covid. Today there are a number of minor legislative changes ahead of us. These are minor changes with potentially major consequences. Mr. Chairman. The starting point as outlined in the explanatory memorandum to this law is that it must be safe to vote, and that it must be safe for those tens of thousands of members of the polling stations that help our democracy during the elections. We are grateful to them for that. The aim of this bill is to enable the forthcoming elections to be organised, taking into account current and possible future co-vid measures. To this end, the Minister makes a number of proposals in which we can agree, such as extending the number of members at a polling station from three to four, for, among other things, hygiene and monitoring of the number of visitors. We think that's fine. This also applies to the granting of additional opportunities for B and W lectures to designate additional, special and/or specific polling stations. It is important that municipal councils monitor their implementation. We put our trust in them and call them to it. Should it come to that, I will do my part myself. Mr. Chairman. My group also has three comments on this law, one small one and two large one. The small comment is to extend the time limit for collecting powers from two to four weeks. It is true that two weeks is short, but my group does not really see how this is related to covid. Can the Minister explain that briefly again? That explanation is lacking in the explanatory memorandum. Then there is the first big comment. In future, ballots may be counted at a location other than the one where the votes were cast. The reason is that not all polling stations in the country would be large enough to keep 1.5 meters away when counting the bills. So we need to be able to count at a larger location. This seems to us to be risky on two points. One: the integrity of the voting process, but also in terms of covid risks to which the cabinet is right to take these measures and submit this law. The integrity of the voting process is at stake, because the risk of fraud is increasing, namely that the vote has been taken during transport. In addition, voters who wish to observe the inclusion limit their ability to supervise. Voting is public, but this move without counting means that these voters will not be able to attend a specific part of this vote. That's less transparent. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she sees this. However, this affects the transparency of the procedure for those who wish to attend the vote. In addition, this solution provides additional displacement. That's odd from a covid perspective. It provides for additional movement of people, both from transporters and observers. That is precisely what the cabinet does not want, taking into account the current measures. From the covid perspective of the cabinet and the measures, is it not logical that additional movements should be made? I'd also like to hear how the Minister sees it. The third point is our biggest point: electronic powers of attorney. This law makes it possible to obtain a digital power of attorney, a PDF file that can then be printed at home. The self-printing of a power of attorney introduces a completely new risk, namely that a voter himself can print several times a power of attorney. Evil wills can try to print more than one proxy form and to cast more than one vote. The chance of this risk occurring is a small estimate to the Minister. There are three reasons for this. The first argument is that the Minister expects that there will be few electronic powers of attorney, but we do not think that this argument is valid. It is based on historical data, and it is the first time that electronic powers of attorney exist and for the first time that we are dealing with this covid crisis. That's a new element. It may well be used massively. You won't know until it's too late. Then there is the second argument: a voter can only vote in conjunction with his own vote. That is true, but that is not convincing to cover the risk, because power of attorney combined with a regular vote does not exclude large-scale organised group fraud. And then there's the third argument. The authorisation certificate shall be designed electronically in such a way that it is difficult to manipulate. That is the most crucial point: design safeguards in electronics. It makes us feel bad. We live in a time full of fake news and disinformation, especially digital. This Minister expressed a great deal of concern at the beginning of this cabinet period. And although the Forum for Democracy completely disagrees with her on the impact of fake news and its approach, we do not understand how the Minister can easily step over these electronic powers of attorneys. At this time, the technological possibilities of digital manipulation are very advanced, think of deep fake technology, where it is easy to stick the head of person X to the body of person Y, in a realistic way, in a moving film. Compared to this, adjusting a printable pdf-powerful form to vote is a piece of cake. All that is needed is the NAW data and the dashes used on the screen as a security measure, a so-called line structure. Any Photoshopwhizzkid can do the laundry and manipulate it. That opens the door to massive printing of fake power certificates and that is a huge risk. We would like to hear from the Minister how she can convince our group that this risk is excluded and to what extent this risk outweighs the intended benefits of electronic powers of attorney. For this is the most critical point of this law for us. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. You spoke, of course, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Keeping the elections going on on the scheduled election date is an essential starting point for the PVV. There should not be any delay. The electorate must be given a timely opportunity to speak out. It is therefore essential for our democracy that the government takes sufficient measures to ensure this. The aim must also be to ensure that as many voters as possible are allowed to vote. This bill focuses both on the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of 17 March 2021 and on the reclassification elections in Groningen and North Brabant on 18 November. These municipal reclassification elections are the reason why this bill has to be dealt with so urgently here today. I would also like to point out that these reclassification elections in relation to the PVV were not really necessary. At first, there should have been a different electoral process in this municipality, namely a referendum on the reclassification question itself. That is precisely why the PVV was the only group that voted against the reclassification proposals for Haren and Eemsdelta, because the people were unable to vote on them in a referendum. That brings me to the first question to the Minister. If in the coming months, as long as this temporary law applies, a municipality or province makes use of the possibility to organise a referendum and I have already understood that some municipalities intending to do so are the provisions of this law applicable to the ballot? Mr. Chairman. A larger number of polling stations is good for the turnout and the spread of voters. As regards the reclassification elections, the Minister indicated that the number of polling stations remained the same in the reclassification municipality. But is this including the polling stations that are only accessible to special target groups, such as in nursing homes or nursing homes? In this case, the overall number of universally accessible polling stations will be reduced. Can the Minister clarify this? Is the Minister prepared, together with the municipalities, to ensure that the number of universally accessible voting rooms remains at least the same? Mr. Chairman. There should be no ambiguity about the health check in the electorate. The questionnaire currently on the RIVM website, on which this bill is based, can raise questions and put them to dilemmas. For "complaints in the past 24 hours" there is a very general mention of coughing and anxiety among others. If, for example, a voter with a chronic disease, such as asthma or COPD, responds to this list in good conscience and suffers from coughing or distress due to that chronic disease, this will consistently be filled in "yes', while this in itself has nothing to do with COVID-19. Can the Minister explain how such situations are dealt with and how it can be avoided that voters with such a chronic illness, for example, feel obliged to use a power of attorney rather than their personal right to vote? The health check also contains a question about whether you are in quarantine, because you "have been warned by the CoronaMelder app." Can the Minister explain how this restriction of voting rights relates to the supposed voluntary nature of the CoronaMelder app and the intrinsic unreliability of this app? Mr. Chairman. The extension of the written proxy system also increases the risk of fraud. The previous speaker was right to point that out. In the note following the report, the Minister himself states to the House of Representatives: "The government is aware of the risk of increasing the maximum number of powers per voter from two to three. For example, the proxy provider must disclose his voting secret and there is a risk that voters will be put under pressure or bribed to issue a power of attorney." In its opinion on this bill, the Election Council also states: "As you know, the power of attorney entails the risk of recruitment. There are regular reports of alleged recruitment practices in elections. The increase in the number of proxy powers to be adopted should therefore be approached with some caution." The Election Board therefore recommends that, in order to prevent recruitment practices, the intention of extending the power of attorney be waived. However, the government has indicated that it intends to extend this possibility once and for all in view of the current special circumstances. The Minister stated: "The voting card will emphasise that abuse of the proxy regime is punishable. I also ask municipalities to be extra vigilant for signals of possible abuse, which can be reported." Can the Minister indicate the possibilities for municipalities to shape this extra vigilance? Can the Minister also give examples of such signals? Can the Minister indicate whether she herself is taking additional measures to prevent fraud and recruitment practices with powers of attorney? In its opinion, the Election Board also stated that it had already made recommendations in 2015 to address the recruitment of proxy votes. Can the Minister indicate what has been done in concrete terms with these recommendations so far? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few questions about the practical way things are going in the polling station. The Minister states that the polling station may ask the voter to remove the mouth and nose mask for identification. Can the Minister indicate how identity determination can take place with a nose-mouth mask on and why is it not required to take off the nose-mouth mask by default? In addition, the president of the polling station has the option of asking a voter to leave the polling station if he is not prepared to follow instructions on the measures taken. However, the further consequences of this are not clear in the legislative proposal. Can the Minister indicate whether, in that case, the electorate will also get back the voting documents, including the voting pass and any power of attorney if they have already been handed over but have not yet been voted on? Can a voter who has been removed from a voting room at a later date still vote at that polling room or at another voting room in the municipality, or still vote by private authority? I would like to mention another point of practical concern with regard to the powers of attorney. In the note following the report to the First Chamber, the Minister made it possible for voters to receive complaints on election day: "A direct power of attorney gives a voter by filling in and signing the back of his voting card. This can be done on the election day itself." The handover of the private power of attorney requires physical transfer of the voting pass. Can the Minister indicate how a voter should deal with this if at the same time, in order to avoid contact with third parties, it is undesirable to receive a visit or if he cannot leave because of quarantine? The Minister also stated in the memo on the presence of observation missions in polling stations with restricted access the following: I quote: "It is therefore advisable that observation missions report to the relevant municipality in good time so that agreements can be made with the manager or management of the site." Can the Minister indicate whether such agreements will not be at the expense of the nature of spontaneous and random monitoring by the observers? Finally, Mr President. During the previous Dutch Parliament elections in 2017, there was talk of pro-Erdogan propaganda in several voting rooms, including in Amsterdam and Nijmegen. This bill pays extra attention to the careful arrangement of voting rooms, due to the spread of the coronavirus. Can the Minister indicate whether the spread of Erdogan hate propaganda in the polling stations will be monitored as closely as it is now? What concrete steps are being taken to this end by the Minister? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I would like to give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the officials for their prompt response to our questions. We support the purpose of this law, to be able to vote safely in corona time without affecting the right to vote. We understand from last Friday's separate letter from the Minister that there will be a second urgent legislative proposal, in addition to the current proposal. We await that second proposal. On the current proposal we have a single question. In replying to the questions, the Minister stressed the personal responsibility of voters in completing the health check. Let us assume that most people do act responsibly. But what if a voter refuses to complete the health check or refuses to follow the hygiene measures, because he thinks all these corona measures are bullshit? What happens if, after the entire escalation ladder has gone through, he refuses to comply with the request to leave the polling station? What is to be done then? Now the president of a polling station can also make such a request outside of corona hours. The possibility of such a request and the refusal to comply with it is likely that the public debate on the corona measures has increased. What additional support can the president of a polling station count on not to let things get out of hand? Mr. Chairman. A second question concerns the extension of the number of mandates from two to three. That's just what we've been talking about. This enlargement does not apply to the reclassification elections. In the reply, the Minister states that it cannot be excluded that some voters will have more difficulty in finding a proxy. That must then be accepted. But if we accept that in these reclassification elections, why do we not accept that in the Lower House elections? We are asking this question in view of the high risk of fraud, which has already been mentioned, which is the result of the increase in the number of powers of attorneys. Our group would like to hear the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr Koole. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Nicolaï, who will speak on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a law, but in my opinion we are also talking about the advance on the adjustment contained in the letter. This is also evident from the other insertions. I don't think I'm going to talk about the fraud sensitivity of the powers of attorney. Others have already asked questions about this. What struck me in particular was the extension of the possibility of voting by letter. Our group considers this to be a very good thing, but I do have serious reservations about the fact that this is limited to people over 70 years of age. I would like to talk to the Minister about this, and I have a question about that. When we look at the parliamentary system committee, we see a recommendation on three points. On page 129 of their report there is a recommendation that the letter vote should indeed be introduced. But, in fact, what is proposed here is obviously about the letter vote in the corona situation. I think there are actually two additional arguments besides the three mentioned above. The first is fear of corona contamination. This will be the case for the elderly, where the Minister is talking about the latter, but also about other vulnerable people. It may also be the case for people who are not included in the vulnerable groups at all by the RIVM. The Minister writes in her letter that 2.4 million voters aged 70 or over are concerned and that, in view of the interests of those voters, the government is considering the possibility of lettering in the forthcoming amendment. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the website of the RIVM, to which the minister refers in her letter, we can see that after the vulnerable elderly there is still a very large group of vulnerable people. I went Google this afternoon. If you look at the people in the Netherlands with lung problems, we are at 1 million. If you look at the people with diabetes, you're at 1.2 million. If you look at the people with kidney disease, you're at 1.7 million. If you look at people with obesity, fear not; our group in the House of Representatives has already mentioned this in the context of the corona measures, 50% of the Dutch population is obese. That's gonna be some serious obesity. If you add all that together, you'll come up with a much larger group of vulnerable people who are not among the elderly over 70. For those people, the vote by letter will not be opened. I find that remarkable, apart from the fact that there will also be people who may not be at all vulnerable in the sense of the definition of RIVM, but who are afraid to go to the polling room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u10	The bill doesn't say that age limit at all. It is in a letter that has yet to be dealt with by the House of Representatives and then possibly by us. The bill doesn't see that. My question is, why don't you focus on the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u11	I am focusing on the bill in the sense that the Minister has also focused on it, because when the bill is being examined in the House of Representatives, there has been a discussion about things about this law that are not quite right. There is a hurry because there are now reclassification elections. Our group also understands this; we certainly want to contribute to this. But in fact we would now be forced to agree to a law that is there today and to which things are not right. This pain is removed by the fact that the Minister has already stated in a letter on what points things that may not be right will be resolved. That is why I say this: if I see the solution put forward by the Minister in the letter, then I am again critical of that solution. It is good to report that now from the First Chamber and also to report why there is such criticism. We hope that we will soon have to pass the House of Representatives in the proposal that we are going to have to go through it and then find some of our comments in the First Chamber. I therefore think it is only practical to deal with this immediately, just as it is practical that the Minister has already sent the letter and that it has already been submitted to us in the course of the examination of this draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u12	I'm formally obliged to let you confine myself to what's ahead. But since it's touching, I'm sure I'll give you a chance to pursue your argument. It's on the edge, though. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u13	My group would like to draw particular attention to the vulnerable and those who may not be vulnerable, but who would like to make use of the letter vote. A warning: I can imagine, however, that as a lawyer I say that if the law is later laid down at 70 years, you might wonder whether that is not contrary to the principle of equality, so that people would only be given the opportunity to vote by letter on the basis of that limit of 70 years and not others. I'd be happy to give this to the Minister. The fifth point, in addition to the state committee, would be to prevent more infections. We talked about it, and it also shows from the answers given that someone can say that he has no symptoms, even though he does. There's just a real danger that people will vote while they're contagious. That's a pretty big risk. It's not a criminal offence, either. If we all take corona measures to prevent us from getting into situations where we may be infected, one would almost say: one of the most important corona measures should be that for everyone to vote in writing becomes a result. I'd like to give it to the Minister to consider this. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. In all the sadness of the moment, the Minister, like us, should be secretly pleased that we are now allowed to speak almost every week in this Chamber where, for the time being, only the King and the President of the First Chamber were allowed to speak. Let us remember that, because one day the crisis will pass and we will not be able to say anything here. I think this is a cause for some joy in all the gloom. Mr. Chairman. In times of crisis there is no need for less but more democracy, a statement that my group often makes and really means. Decisions are particularly important in a crisis. Citizens' influence on these decisions is mainly through the ballot box. There are two things at each ballot box: everyone must be able to vote and each vote must be counted. It is therefore very good that the government feels responsible for ensuring that elections take place optimally in times of corona and that it presents us with additional proposals for the next elections; these are the reclassification elections, but they will also find out about the parliamentary elections next year. These measures must make sure that millions of people can vote safely and not abandon their right to vote because of Corona. They must also ensure that the thousands of people who are going to have to count those votes are able to do their important work safely. They are on the front line at the forthcoming elections, to use a popular term at this time. Mr. Chairman. Many of the relevant comments have already been made by colleagues and I do not need to repeat them. I'll be happy to hear the Minister's answer to it later. I would like to focus my brief contribution, in particular, on the experience gained elsewhere in choosing corona time, to see if we and the Minister can benefit from it. Some countries have postponed their elections for some time because of corona: Poland, Serbia, France, Galicia, the Basque Country and so on. This could be a very sensible measure to prevent elections from contributing to the spread of the corona virus. At the same time, however, postponement hinders voters from deciding on who is going to make decisions on their behalf in a time of crisis. Has the government considered postponing the elections at any time, or can it still do so? Other countries have allowed their elections to continue. That could be risky, too. In France, six out of ten voters stayed at home in the local elections in June, 43% of whom said they would stay at home because of the pandemic. Is the government aware of that risk? Mind you, a lower turnout in corona time is definitely not a certainty. Sometimes it's the other way around. In Poland and Bolivia, a record rise was observed in the middle of crisis time. Also in Georgia, where I was last week to lead the Council of Europe observation mission in the parliamentary elections, turnout was more than four years before. In any case, there is no link in these three countries, no negative link between turnout and corona. How does the government view these relationships here? Mr. Chairman. Whether the pandemic is triggered by elections is not certain, although such a massive event naturally has superspread elements in it. In South Korea that was not, we now know on the basis of scientific research. Georgia will not surprise me if there is an increase in the coming weeks. In most of the polling rooms where I was, there was no way to keep the distance of 1.5 meters because the rooms were often too small and too full; ideal conditions for a virus to spread. The often necessary contact between members of a polling station did not really contribute to limiting the possibility of spreading the virus. The measure in Georgia to allow only a few voters in was well thought out, but led to congestion at the door, and there everyone stood extremely friendlyly with each other and then followed the 1.5 meters. That doesn't really work either. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of my experience now in Georgia, but also the documented experience in other countries, I have a few questions to ask the Minister, they are not proposals that she may be able to take with her for the next proposal, I shall say. One. Why shouldn't we vote on Saturday or Sunday? That makes it possible to spread more widely throughout the day, and I think that should be done. Two. Why not work with something that is quite normal in Eastern Europe: a mobile ballot box? You're just gonna stop by the people who can't come. That works very well and does not seem complicated to me to carry out. Why don't we just use pencils once or let everyone vote with their own pen? That avoids a lot of transfer options. Why don't we make sure there's no more curtains in front of the ballot box? Because they need to be grabbed every time. And why don't we use a temperature check at the polling station entrance? That was all over Georgia. It happened in a second, and then you know whether or not someone has a fever. As I said, they are questions, they are not proposals. I would ask the Minister to take them with him in the further preparation of her forthcoming bill. My group will wholeheartedly support this proposal. Finally, I would like to offer the Minister a recent report from the Council of Europe which brings together the experiences of all 47 European countries. This is a report on how, in times of a pandemic, we can maintain the democratic acquis. It was written by a conservative, so don't see any bias in this, but the proposals were adopted unanimously by the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Kox. If you put that on the table, the messenger will offer it to the minister. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. Let Mr Kox be comforted that the united meetings of the States-General are also taking place in this Chamber, where the Members do have the right to speak. You know when the last one was. Do you remember? The date was December 3, 2013 on the Regency Act. Mrs. Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the last few days, one of my associates had a conversation with her 90-year-old grandfather, so she told me. This grandpa grew up with the attendance obligation, the obligation to report to a polling station. The underlying idea was that by this obligation the composition of the House of Representatives would be a balanced and good reflection of the population. They were not obliged to cast the vote, because you could also fill in blank votes or nothing. This could not be verified because of the secret of voting. However, this duty has ensured that there is still a great willingness to vote among the generations who grew up with it. Same with this grandpa. He's never skipped an election before. On the question of whether he also intends to vote in this corona time, he fully admitted that he certainly wants to cast his vote, but that he is anxious. He'd like to vote safely. In this corona age, he is obviously afraid of health risks, risks that can be fatal at his age. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this story isn't on its own. For my group, this debate focuses on safe voting for everyone, regardless of age, vulnerability or non-vulnerability. 50PLUS is therefore pleased that, in addition to the Temporary Election Act COVID-19, which aims both at the reclassification elections and at the elections of the Lower House of 17 March 2021, a second legislative proposal is being prepared, whereby voters aged 70 and over can vote by letter: the so-called letter votes. My group also welcomes the extension of the maximum power of attorney from two to three. This gives the vulnerable groups an additional opportunity to vote without having to appear physically. The early opening of polling stations is also satisfactory. Mr. Chairman. So much for the good news. However, my group would like to address three more issues. As with any election, the polling rooms are manned by members of a polling station. These members, willing volunteers, are normally responsible for checking voters' identity cards, guiding voters to the polling booths and counting ballots. However, in this covid era, the members of the polling stations, according to Article 9 of the bill, are entrusted with additional tasks. In this way, they will have to ensure that voters comply with the current measures in force. They will have to take a health check on voters, they will have to ensure that voters keep a distance of 1.5 metres from each other and that they comply with hygiene measures. 50PLUS finds these additional tasks very burdensome. It is not desirable for these members of the polling bureau to act as some sort of special investigator, a boa, in order to maintain the measures. In the present time, we are seeing an increase in aggression towards boas and care personnel. My group is happy to hear from the Minister how she intends to enforce this obligation of voluntary service on practical grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u18	Mrs Baay, I see you still have a whole page of speaking text. Are you gonna read that whole page? Your speaking time has been up for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u19	Oh, Mr. Chairman. Can I now use my speaking time in the debate on the corona detector, which I had not yet used all of? It's not that bad. I still have a page and a half. Oh, and I just heard from the Chamber that I can take three minutes' speaking time from my colleague. Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u20	No, those are both dangerous precedents. I will give you a very small extension of your speaking time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u21	Well, thank you very much, I'll do it faster. Can the Minister indicate how she looks at the possibility of decentralising the use of the city's enforcers in support of the members of the polling room? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS calls for attention to be paid to the point that the voter must do the health check on the day of the vote. Once the voter answers one of the questions by yes, the voter may no longer enter the polling room. This voter may then no longer apply for written power of attorney, as the time limit for such a vote has expired two days before the vote. However, a private authorisation may still be granted by filling in the back of the voting card, but the voting card must be picked up by someone. Mr Van Hattem also pointed that out. 50PLUS wonders whether it is desirable for the authorised representative to collect the power of attorney from an infected person. Doesn't that contradict the RIVM guidelines, which just hammer on full home isolation or quarantine in case of infections? I would like to hear 50PLUS from the Minister on how to act in such a case. Mr. Chairman. For many flights, the obligation already applies that passengers must undergo a test to determine whether the person concerned is infected with the covid virus. If the result is positive, the passenger shall be denied access to the aircraft. Would it not be logical to require such a test for the members of the polling stations? Because of the early opening of voting rooms, they may be in contact with many people for three days. Does the Minister agree with my group that it is the responsibility of the government to protect the health of voters and voters? I would like to hear from my group whether the Minister can agree to such a mandatory test which will ensure the health of all concerned. A health check carried out by yourself gives far less certainty than a covid rapid test. Thank you. Thank you so much for your flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Even Mr Van der Burg would not have spoken for that long. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, will you be able to answer directly? No? Would you like a ten-minute suspension? Yes. Then I'll suspend until 8:35.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u23	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to you and through you to all members for taking so soon into consideration temporary law elections covid-19. I realize that it happened under great pressure of time, but there are also good reasons for it: six municipalities in the province of Groningen and the province of Brabant are involved in the reclassification elections on 18 November. I am sure that I can also express my thanks on behalf of them here. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the elections in the Netherlands can take place safely in corona time, safe for the voters to vote and safe for the approximately 70,000 voters. 70,000 volunteers needed to manage these elections. Those are the people who man the polling stations, those are the people who count, those are the people who do the work that is needed. The purpose of this law is to regulate the safe elections by means of legislation. In fact, everything in the Netherlands that has to do with elections is legally anchored. In these special times we will have to organise the elections differently. We will have to make sure that the polling stations are suitable to maintain that 1.5 metres. We must ensure that people dare to vote as well. Mrs Baay-Timmerman set a good example in her contribution. So I put forward proposals in this law, such as for the special voting rooms in health care institutions and for the number of powers of attorney. I will go into the questions that have been asked about this in detail. There will be additional members of the polling bureau, because there will be additional tasks. I will answer the questions about this in a moment. There's a lot to settle. What is also regulated by this law is that political parties that participate for the first time, if that were to be the case and what is going on almost every election, will have more time to gather statements of support. The first question by Mr Van der Linden, who saw the change from two to four weeks, was on this point. I thought I heard him call the word "powerful" and I was put on the wrong foot for a moment, because I thought he meant that other power of attorney. I have assumed that new political parties can use some extra time because of the corona conditions to get the declarations of support in order, hence the extension from two to four weeks. The law also makes it possible to lay down specific rules in a number of areas. It concerns, for example, the safety of members of the polls, the cough screens and the measures taken to clean the voting booths and pencils. I say to Mr Kox that the curtains for the voting booths have been gone for a while. As long as I can remember, it has been. I dare not say exactly when the curtain has been abolished. It is because members of the polls must be able to see that what is happening in the booth is in accordance with the rules. The House of Representatives has dealt with and amended this proposal. You saw that. The amendment by Mr van der Graaf/Bruins reflects more in the legislative proposal the voter's own responsibility, such as for doing the health check before entering the polling room. You also know that the voter who asks for assistance in the polling booth can be actively asked by the polling booth members for the health check. A second amendment by the House of Representatives expresses the fact that the voter may also submit the answer to this health check in writing. The House of Representatives has also adopted a number of motions, hence my letter, which has also been received by this Chamber. I will say a little more about this in a moment, because some questions were asked about it. The municipalities are the ones that do the real organisation of the elections. We had already agreed with the municipalities in August that we would be making additional funds available anyway, more than 30 million for the upcoming elections, because we had already asked for the polling stations to be listed and to see what else might be needed to organise the elections properly. It is simply a considerable task, especially since we all want the number of voting rooms to remain at least as high as possible. I've set up a support team from BZK to help with that. We also know, as I have already mentioned, that we need more polling stations. I will work with the municipalities on this and I want to help them by starting a national recruitment campaign by the end of this month, at the latest in early December, with the aim of calling on new groups of people to volunteer in all municipalities. We will do so through social media and in all ways to inform them about what kind of work that is, what you have to do for it, but also what you get in return. It is, of course, very nice to help once in our democracy. The municipalities need our help and support and I will ensure that it is given. Then there is something that we are not talking about, but which was dealt with side by side in a number of contributions. This is a law that already regulates a lot so that elections can continue safely. I had already said in my letter prior to this bill that I also wanted to look at the possibility of voting in letters. We want to do this very carefully. Afterwards, at the request of the House of Representatives, the option of early voting was added, early voting. I said in last Friday's letter how I could implement it. This is due to the possibility of voting letters for people aged 70 and over and to the possibility of opening a number of voting rooms two days earlier, at least one in each municipality and in proportion to the size of the municipality more. This means that we are now working very hard on a legislative proposal to make this possible again. Working day and night, I'd say. Sometimes that's almost literal, by the way. I expect that the bill can be submitted to the Council of State in a few weeks' time and can be submitted to the House of Representatives in the course of this month. Then too, Mr President, you can expect a call from me in the hope that it can be dealt with here again soon. That was an introduction. Then let's get back to all the questions that have been asked. I would like to begin with a question from Mr Kox. He said that all this was aimed at making the elections possible, including the reclassification elections and the Lower Parliament elections on 17 March. Mr Kox asked whether it was possible to postpone the elections. I have stressed from the start of this corona crisis that it is important for democracy and, fortunately, I have heard many Members today say that the elections can go ahead and that we must do everything we can to ensure that it is done. Whether it will ultimately be possible in all cases depends on how the spread and development of that coronavirus goes. You can't completely rule it out, as much as I'd like to. But there is a great deal we can do to ensure that it is not up to us. Only in a very serious situation, in very serious circumstances, should you postpone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u25	The Minister and I are in complete agreement. The experiences are not such that you should postpone it because of corona. At the same time, if you are going to make a second law, it does not seem strange to me that if the pandemic continues to spread, we should be able to postpone the elections. How's that? That's what my question was about. I didn't ask, would you please postpone them? No, please don't. But I do think we should come up with a provision for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u26	Fortunately, I did not misunderstand Mr Kox. I did think we were all on the same page, by the way. In the very first letter I wrote about corona and elections, which was well before the summer recess, I outlined that in the worst case, if it were not justified to ask people to vote and to man the polling stations, we could postpone the elections. There is that possibility. That is actually a parliamentary decision, because the cabinet can propose it, but the parliament will then have to approve it. So there is that legal option, but I think we agree that we should do everything we can to avoid this being necessary. Again, under the current circumstances, I see no reason to assume that, for example, the reclassification elections in two weeks' time could not continue. In the measures, as they have just been announced, we have said: elections should simply be possible, even if you need more people to man a electoral office and ensure that voters can flow neatly, all at 1.5 metres. You'll have a few more people together once in a while, but that's okay. We organize it safely and well. You say to people: limit your movements, stay home as much as possible and work at home. But votes are a vital part of our democracy and our society. We just have to organize it nicely. I'll start with the questions about the rules in the polling station. Some questions have also been asked about voting by proxy. I will answer them afterwards, as will questions about the number of polling stations. Finally, I come to a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr. Otten, would you mind putting on a mask and keeping five feet away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to start with a question from Mr Van Hattem, who also saw on the mouth and nose mask. Mr Van Hattem asked how the identity determination can take place when someone is wearing a mouth mask. The polling station should be able to check with the photo on the identity card and, of course, the name on the voting card if the voter is the one he says he is. If they can't establish that or if there's any doubt about it, they can ask the voter to take the mask off for a while. There is that possibility. If that's not necessary, it won't be asked. But it can be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u29	It's hard for the president to recognize me like that. When I enter the polling station with this mouth mask, I can imagine it's much harder to establish my identity. I read in the bill that there is a possibility to ask for a mouth mask to be taken off. A very regular part of identity determination is that the whole face must be visible. I believe that Members of the polling station will find themselves faced with major dilemmas with this law when they have to ask that question or not. Could the Minister clarify in which cases the mouth mask should be removed? Or is there just one rule: always remove the mask to determine identity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u30	The proposal is for the mouth mask to be worn. The moment the voter offers his voting card and ID, it goes as usual. The polling member looks at the identity card and the voter. If there is any doubt, the member of the polls will ask him to take the mask off for a moment, because he wants to be able to identify it. The proposal is therefore not to do so always and with everyone. I don't think that's necessary either. I can very well imagine it happening at regular intervals. That's not crazy at all. That's when you stand still. You're in front of the polls. There's a cough screen in there, so there's no risk to safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u31	I imagine as a polling station member, you're always having doubts when to ask or not. You literally have to trust people on their blue eyes, or any other color. Is it not wiser to issue a very clear directive on this or to put something on paper? Now it is left to pure arbitrariness at the polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u32	No. The rule is that the voter who assesses the identity can simply ask to take off the mask. If he wants to or if he likes it better, he can ask anyone. There's nothing crazy about that. I think members of the polls are perfectly capable of doing that. I would just like to answer Mr Van Hattem's questions on this subject. Mr Van Hattem spoke about propaganda in polling stations. He mentioned the example of the Turkish President. If he means that there should be no political expression in the polling room, then he is right. In the past, we have always agreed to this. That doesn't change anything. Voting rooms must have a neutral design, so not with all kinds of pamphlets, flags and what else they are dressed up. That is just the case for these elections, too. Mr Van Hattem also asked if the voter would get his votes back if he were removed from the polling room. We hope that this will not happen very often. The bill gives each member of the polling office the power to give instructions. So if a member of the polling bureau considers that the circumstances are such that the person present should not be there and that designation is repeatedly not followed, the voter may be asked, in the extreme event, not to enter the polling room...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, in principle, the situation that Mr Van Hattem is proposing does not actually arise. If it had happened, he'd get the voices back. But once again, that seems to me to be a situation that will hardly occur. A little along the same lines, Mr Koole and Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked: if something like this happens and a voter should intervene and ask the electorate to leave the polling room, can the members of the polling station count on support? Here too, this is a kind of extreme situation in which it would really escalate and become annoying. I hope that this will be very little. We now agree that, in the extreme, the President can give an indication that the electorate must leave the polling station. The president could also, if the order is really disturbed, suspend the hearing and then ask for assistance from the municipality, strictly speaking to the mayor. However, that is not regulated by this law. That's already settled in the Tickets Act. I would like to repeat that this would really be in the extreme if the president of the polling station called on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u33	Indeed, that has already been settled in the Tickets Act. My point is that these are special elections. Hopefully it will remain occasional, but the frequency with which it can occur may be higher. People can say, for example, I'm just giving an example that the corona rules are all bullshit and are going to make a fuss. The frequency may therefore increase and it may also be such that outside assistance should be sought more frequently. Is it provided for, I ask the Minister, that the president of the polling station can call in that help from outside? And is that help available, more than in normal non-corona elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u34	I understand Mr Koole's question very well, because, of course, we see more of this kind of expression. The provision has already been incorporated into the law. I think it is right that I should remind the congregations once again, precisely along the line proposed by Mr Koole: remember that this could happen in the extreme and that polling stations should be able to count on help; the assistance they ask for from the municipality should therefore be available. That's a fair point. In preparation, we will involve this even more actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u35	I welcome this answer. Does that also mean, I ask the Minister, that the local triangle makes prior agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u36	I don't want to get into that again. I think this can be very different from one municipality to another. I will make sure that the general point in the contacts with the municipality is brought to the attention. Then it's a local consideration. We can all imagine in which municipalities this might play a little more or less. How the mayor organises it further and whether or not he arranges it in the triangle. Mr Van Hattem had another question about agreements with observation missions, which should not be at the expense of spontaneous and random monitoring. For access to the polling room, there will be a place to observe on each voting room. In voting rooms with restricted access, the house rules apply to access, but it is also important that observation missions also be observed there. This is the subject of agreements with the municipality and the manager of the building in question. So they should give room for an observation mission that could come along. That access must indeed be given. Finally, I come to the polling stations and the polling stations. I'll get to the numbers. Questions have been asked about that. Mrs Baay-Timmerman had a question about the corona tests. Of course, there are two moments when you could do that. If I understood Mrs Baay-Timmerman correctly, her question was about a pre-test. I see she's nodding. Members of the polls, like all of us, do the health check in advance, in accordance with the advice of the RIVM on this matter. Only if someone has real complaints, you could also do a GD test. Should a member of the polling committee be subject to health complaints at the time, he must cease his duties and the municipality must provide an alternate. First of all, I do not think it is necessary to require the members of the polls to have a corona test in advance. That is not in line with the directive we are working on. Secondly, we need a lot of volunteers. We don't actually do corona testing unless you want to go to a specific country and that country makes that demand. Otherwise, we don't. We don't ask employers. We don't do that with the app. We don't do that with tests. We don't do that with vaccinating. We have good agreements on all fronts, but no obligation. That also applies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u37	I know the mandatory testing goes a long way, of course. On the other hand, these are people who spend a large number of hours in a confined space and come into contact with a lot of people. I can therefore imagine an exception being made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u38	Mrs Baay-Timmerman is therefore concerned that someone who would carry the virus would be present in a polling station for a long time and would then be a spreader of the virus. We're setting it up very carefully now. We make demands on the polling stations and on the distances. The members of the polls should not be too close to each other either. The premises must meet the conditions, also in terms of ventilation. In this way, I think we have put sufficient safeguards into the system. Of course, you don't have a 100% guarantee, but I think we're coming a long way in that direction. Once again, I think it is mandatory to have a corona test for volunteers who man our polling stations, while we simply ask them to do the health check and we take all the other precautions advised by RIVM, specifically with regard to the election, in which this opinion was not included, to go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u39	I can also imagine that it might not be mandatory, but that a Member himself, even though it does not yet have any complaints, needs to do such a quick test. Would there be any possibility of offering them anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u40	That's another type of question that I understand much better. I find the answer difficult. It's now the beginning of November. The rapid tests are on the rise. There are now validated rapid tests, but we are actually still on the verge of really applying those rapid tests on a larger scale. I cannot yet fully assess where we stand on 17 March, or at the beginning of March, with regard to the use of the rapid tests. Suppose they have proved their usefulness by then, and we have already applied it in different sectors. Suppose, for example, you have already had experience with it in education. Then I would find it very interesting if we could do the same for voters on a voluntary basis. But I can't promise it, because I can't see now whether the availability and experience with it must be positive enough, of course, so that we can do so. But I'll be sure to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u41	Finally, I consider this to be the following. If the possibilities are such that these rapid tests are available and the results are also fully reliable, then the members of the polling bureau could certainly be given a certain priority in order to have such a quick test carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u42	That is a little too definite, but I say that I will be actively and with great interest, on the basis of my responsibility for the elections, looking at how the VWS colleague is going to work with the rapid tests, and of course, as a cabinet, we will also see how we can do this with different sectors. If that has a perspective, I will certainly use it for the elections. I'd like to make a commitment here. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the power of attorney. Mr Van der Linden was the first to ask a question about this, but there were also several other speakers who expressed concerns. I'm gonna try to take those concerns away. The reason for the proposal to increase the number of power of attorneys that someone may use from two to three years old is only now, so only in this temporary law, for this particular time in which we live is because we all think it is very important that the turnout stays alive. We can imagine that there are people who either have to stay at home because they have the disease or are in quarantine because they have been in contact with someone who had the disease. So there are many more people who, when they do a health check at home, say: I cannot go to the ballot box. That's more than usual. Then we really want them to be able to vote. You can do that by proxy, in writing or in private. But, yeah, if people can only issue two powers of attorney, which is what's happening in our system right now, it might as well get tight. Not everyone has a large social network, a large family or many neighbours to choose from. For a lot of people, that's very limited. That's why I think it's important to do it now. I know that the Election Board has reservations about it; I would normally have reservations about it. I think we should be cautious about it, because there is always a small risk of abuse. After all, when you give a power of attorney, you do not vote yourself; you let someone else do that. So it is an exceptional measure, but it also applies in an exceptional time. I would like to comment on the specific questions raised by the amendments. They were about two subjects. One. An extra power of attorney. Two. Receiving the power of attorney by e-mail. The latter was, I thought, what Mr. Van der Linden's question was mainly about. Most of the written power of attorneys will simply be delivered by letter. So the city sends a letter to whoever gets the power of attorney. But if it's just on the edge, so it's just too late to settle it by letter, then we're introducing the possibility of it happening by e-mail. We do have guarantees in that. Let's say someone gives me a power of attorney from the city. It is addressed to me personally, and I can only release it myself if I vote. And on the evidence that I have to print myself, is the name of the person who authorized me. That is printed in such a way that you immediately see it, if you would try to change something. That is fraud; it is not allowed, but it is also visible. So that way I think we have sufficiently anchored that also giving the written power of attorney by e-mail cannot lead to fraud or otherwise. So I do not see any additional risk in this election.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u43	That's what I've been remembering. It is visible; this is also reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. And it therefore looks like line patterns are broken when adjustments are made. But my question was also in the first term: how much certainty does that actually give at a time when whole movies can be manipulated? For someone who's handy with the PC, a digital whizzkid, isn't it a piece of cake to customize it with Photoshop on the screen and print it many times with other names? Besides, it's from a simple layman, or a trained layman at a polling station, wouldn't he expect him to decipher that? Isn't it extremely risky when people can print that themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u44	You should see how that went with that line pattern. I'm the first to admit that an incredible amount of digital can be done by people who have this skill. So I can't rule out people being able to do this, but that naturally means that you have to vote for yourself. So I get to vote and bring three proxy votes. Someone who gets one would then have to manipulate two, invisible and unnoticed, as Mr Van der Linden sketches. I don't think it's very likely that this will happen. Again, the identity of the person who usually gives you the power of attorney by letter in some cases will be done by e-mail, which is entirely linked to the identity of the person who is going to cast the vote. So it's really very limited. The aim is that this should be done by letter as much as possible. It is only made in writing by e-mail in cases where time no longer allows it to be done by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u45	Finally, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u46	It seems unlikely, but it is possible. We have seen in the past that the recruitment of votes is possible. To manipulate the step of recruiting voices to organized contexts, you only need one good programmer. In a group, you can print multiple proxy cards for a group of 100 or hundreds of people. That's an option. That's a possibility. That risk is quite real, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u47	I wonder how Mr Van der Linden got his math. Runnin' is just a crime. It's not allowed at all. Because we allow powers of attorney in this country, there is in itself a possibility of doing so. But you can't. It's a criminal offense. Mr Van der Linden says: "You can do this with those two powers of attorney. If you do this systematically with many people, then you can still gather a nice group together." But that is the situation with the current legislation. This legislation proposes one amendment on one point, namely that the written powers of attorney may be sent not only by letter but also by e-mail. This is the only addition to existing practice, combined with two to three powers of attorney. Mr Van der Linden then says: I can imagine that someone who is digitally very capable of falsifying such a received e-mail and thus making one power of at least two or three powers of attorney. I cannot rule out 100% that this is really not possible, but the number of such powers given at all will be limited. The digital skills you need for it seem huge to me personally. All other ways are excluded by the design of the document that you can print yourself. So, again, the numbers mentioned here by Mr Van der Linden, I cannot at all relate to the proposal I am making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u48	Minister, how much time do you think you need for your first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u49	I think I'll be through it in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u50	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u51	Mr Van Hattem had also asked a question about the powers of attorney. Someone with a chronic illness would have to rely on a power of attorney. In my view, it applies to people with chronic illness and people who do not meet the demands of the health test. If they find that they should not go to the voting room, they have the option of voting by proxy. The health test as such does not, of course, look at diseases or complaints other than those of the coronavirus. It is therefore irrelevant whether there are other health problems, but I can imagine that people with chronic disease would prefer to vote by proxy anyway. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u52	The point is that the health check that is currently displayed on the RIVM site only asks for cough and tightness for a very sec. If people answer yes to that, then it's actually kind of a yes-no game. So my question is: shouldn't the health check be made a little more specific, where it is clearly corona-related? People who know that they have a chronic illness will not be forced into a position of power of attorney when they could just go to the ballot box.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u53	But it's a corona health check. That must also be above it: in connection with the corona crisis, in connection with this pandemic, we ask you the following questions to make sure that you are not a carrier of the virus and that you can spread it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u54	In all sharpness, is the model currently on the RIVM site still further modified on that aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u55	I'm gonna take a really good look at that, but it's really about the corona virus. That must be visible somewhere. I think Mrs Baay-Timmerman's question has actually already been answered. I told you, not everyone has a big network. I do want as many people as possible to vote, hence the extra power of attorney. Mr Koole is, of course, right. In the reclassification elections, we cannot yet declare everything that is regulated by this temporary law applicable. This applies, for example, to the special voting rooms. The municipalities concerned also consider this very important. The additional power of attorney cannot yet be introduced in the reclassification elections. This does not detract from the importance of the reclassification elections. I admit immediately that the same problem may also arise there, namely that people would like to give power of attorney but that the proxy has two already and that this is no longer possible. That can happen if someone has a more limited network. That may occur, but we simply cannot achieve that in time for November 18th. They're reclassification elections. One of the reasons for doing this is, of course, to keep up the turnout. I would also very much like to do so before the reclassification elections. Unfortunately, in the reclassification elections, the number of voters who vote is actually much lower than in the national elections or in the Lower House elections. I've talked to the mayors about this in detail. However, we cannot manage to introduce this even before the reclassification elections. Then I have a few questions about the number of polling stations and some other questions. It was indeed about the difference between voting rooms that are accessible to everyone and voting rooms that are actually not accessible to others, such as in nursing homes. When I say that I want to keep up the number of voting rooms, it is, as far as I am concerned, all over the ordinary voting rooms. That is why I support the municipalities, also with a special team. In addition, municipalities can make special voting rooms possible wherever necessary and wherever possible, for example in nursing or nursing homes. Also in the reclassification elections, we now see that the number of polling stations remains stable. I am referring to the generally accessible voting rooms. Then I'll come to the mobile polling stations. We can work with mobile polling stations in the Netherlands. The law also gives the municipalities plenty of room for this. I say to Mr Kox that I know that municipalities like to use it too. There were a number of other questions, such as voting or Saturday or Sunday. We have the tradition in the Netherlands that the elections are on Wednesday. In my next legislative proposal, therefore, I would like to add the Monday and Tuesday in a limited way, for a limited number of voting rooms. We have this discussion on a regular basis, but Mr Kox also knows that there are groups in Dutch society that object in principle to voting on Sundays, and indeed on Saturdays. So I do not think it would be wise to reopen the debate on this now. The vote on Mondays and Tuesdays does not raise that objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u56	We wouldn't have time for that either. I shall give Mr Kox the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u57	I say to reassure everyone, including behind me: I do not propose to change that tradition. We have discussed this long enough, but I am convinced that Our Lord would like to make an exception for once for voting on Saturday or Sunday, if it could help. I saw in Georgia this week that more could be spread by voting on Sunday. It'll all be a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u58	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u59	One-time voices on a Saturday or Sunday, with that early voting, could, in my opinion, create a lot more space. Once again, it is a question, it is not a proposal, but I would not link it to the fact that we have fundamental discussions about this. If there is a greater interest in the game, you should be able to deviate from a principle once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u60	I think we should resume this debate when we talk about the next law, because I think Mr Kox and I agree. The elections should take place on 17 March if possible. We've established that before. That's the election date. At first I really had some hesitations at early voting, also because municipalities said to me: it is very difficult for us. In some other countries you can see that the polling stations have been open weeks earlier. This is really not manageable in the Dutch systems. Eventually I got out with the congregations anyway. We believe that two days earlier voting in a limited number of polling stations is feasible. That's the deal I made with the congregations about that. Two days earlier is Monday and Tuesday. I do appreciate the thoughtfulness of Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u61	I came in a little later at the first term and you see: you can never really be gone, because before you know it, the whole Sunday will be given away. Of course, you shouldn't have all that. I have now brought my phone; that is also a bit of a risk to this chairman nowadays. I took a look at what the Election Council said. I think that's useful. "The government wants to give as many voters as possible the opportunity to cast their votes. For religious reasons, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays are dropped. Furthermore, Monday falls off, because the preparations for the election would fall mostly over the weekend." Well, if you're gonna do early voting, I think we should make an exception for Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u62	I am very pleased that Mr Schalk is making a contribution to the debate, because we all like to hear this, I think. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox's other suggestion, at least, was not a suggestion but a question about measuring the temperature at the entrance to the polling room. I repeat, perhaps also towards others, that the polling or polling stations do not carry out an active health check on the electorate. That is not an extra task for the voters. That's what the voters do. They are already reminded of this at home when receiving the voting pass. When they arrive at the polling station, there will of course be a reminder of whether they have thought about it. But there's no active health check by the polling station member, unless it's a voter who wants help in the polling station. Then the voter can ask: did you do the health check? As a follow-up, therefore, I do not think that checking the temperature is a task of the polling bureau or of the polling bureau members. Nor do I think that the health check will ultimately restrict the right to vote. That was a statement by Mr Van Hattem. That is because it is a voter's own responsibility, a voter's own consideration. I think that we all think that everyone should be able to vote safely and that it is important that we all stick to that. If you can't go to the polling room, you won't lose your right to vote. Then you can still vote by proxy and by private power of attorney if it is on the day itself. So you just keep the right to vote. Mr Kox had another question about the turnout. I think I've already talked about that. Then I would like to answer one more question about the 70-plussers and one more question from Mr Van der Linden, who also saw the polls. Excuse me, I just forgot. He said: "So it may be that votes are counted elsewhere. Why is that, anyway? Isn't that a corona risk? Isn't that limiting the transparency we seek?" Counting will remain public, even if it should happen in another place. It is only intended for the voting rooms that municipalities want to use to have as many voting rooms as possible. It is, of course, our aim to maintain the number of polling stations. But if they are not suitable for counting, in that case you will have to safely transfer the ballots elsewhere, and you will also have to remind people that they should go to that other location if they want to attend the counting. The theorem is "any displacement is undesirable." We need to limit the number of movements together. In addition, elections are subject to an exception, as is the case for the number of people in polling stations and for other matters to enable the elections to take place. This also applies to the possibility of counting. If we do not have to, then we should not, but if it is necessary in the context of the democratic process, then it is a lawful relocation. Again, we're doing everything safe. Then let's talk about the 70-plussers and vote it by letter. Mr Nicolaï asked very intensely about it. I think it's okay to mark that here. RIVM has declared all persons aged 70 and over vulnerable. This group is generically vulnerable to this virus. Of course, there are other groups that are also vulnerable to the virus because they have underlying health problems, but that is not an objective criterion to be determined by municipalities. As for making it possible to vote in writing just for 70-plussers: it's not something you have to do, it's what you can do. This opportunity for them means that we can ensure that the turnout among 70-plussers in these elections does not fall. Others who, for whatever reason, do not want to go to the voting room themselves, because of their own health, care or whatever, will of course point out the other possibility they have, namely voting by proxy. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered all the questions raised in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u63	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u64	Mr. Chairman. I have made three comments on the legislative proposal in the first term, one small one and two large one. The little one was about the support statement, the period from two to four weeks. What else does that have to do with covid? The Minister's answer is such that I wonder: is enlargement more of a structural nature not a good idea? Because two weeks is very short if you want to start a new party. You're giving everyone who wants to do that the same chance. Shouldn't there be a permanent extension from two to four weeks? Then there are the two crucial points for my group. This is on the one hand the displacement when the vote is taken at a different desk than the count, because there are too small counting areas in relation to the 1.5 metres. A lot of people want to attend those ballots. Even when moving to a larger location, it is not unthinkable that dozens of people would like to attend the vote. This may lead to many problems in implementation. Suppose there is an area that is large enough, and a few dozen people say: we want to be here. Then you can get into trouble with the distance rules. I think that's a problem. So I still like to hear how things are going when a lot of people are interested in attending such a vote, but space appears to be limited. That is the first point. The second big point is the electronic power of attorney. The essential new element in relation to the existing rules is that they are emailed and can be printed. This entails a risk of digital manipulation. The line patterns are changing, breaking, it seems to us technically a piece of cake at a time of deepfake technology, where whole movies are manipulated. The Minister says it doesn't seem so easy to her. We think that's a little naive. It is very simple and we see it as a major risk of electronic powers of attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u65	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the first-term response. Nevertheless, I still have a number of unanswered questions. First of all, my question is whether these provisions in the law also apply to the referendums to be held by municipalities and/or provinces in the coming year. The next point to which I have not had a reply concerns the power of attorney. They just pointed out the possibilities with deepfake, big fake powers that we then get. So we all have to avoid that. But the Minister also indicated that there should be extra vigilance. I have not yet had an answer to my question as to how this extra vigilance can be achieved. Nor did I receive any examples of signals that could be noticed. What additional measures can the Minister himself possibly take to tackle and prevent fraud and recruitment practices, as rightly pointed out by the Election Council? In addition, the question as to what the Minister has done so far with the recommendation already made by the Election Council in 2015 to deal with such recruitments with proxy votes. Then I come to the next unanswered question. The Minister indicated that in principle someone would get his votes back if he had been expelled from a polling room after he had already turned them in but had not yet voted. But can the person at the same polling room still cast his vote, or at another polling room, but it might be even more pregnant at the same polling room? How's that taken care of? How is a polling station supposed to handle that? Then I come to another unanswered question. This one I made partly on behalf of 50PLUS. The handing over of the direct power of attorney must take place physically. This will be a difficult situation for people in quarantine, for example. I would also like to make that clear. Finally, the unanswered questions related to the Turkish propaganda that was in polling stations during the elections in 2017. The Minister is right to say that this is forbidden, but my question was what concrete steps have been taken by the Minister since then to prevent this from happening in these elections. There was just Diyanet propaganda at the time, there were Turkish flags and you name it in polling stations. Is the Minister going to do something more to eradicate this completely in the forthcoming elections? Finally, I have a supplementary question. I heard the Minister say that ignoring the ban is not punishable in any way in the sense of criminal law. Can the Minister also rule out the possibility that private law may constitute a basis for liability in the sense of a tort, for example, if someone ignores this legal provision and thereby contaminates third parties? Can it then be excluded that, under this law, someone can bring this up as an act of tort, and thus have a basis for a claim? I would have liked to have excluded that road, too, if it's not a criminal offence. Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u67	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I would like to give the floor to Mr Koole, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering the questions in the first term. It is indeed very good that the elections can continue, with safety aspects in mind: health safety. But if it is not possible at some point, there is always the possibility to postpone them anyway. I remember that there had been a discussion in 2002 after Fortuyn's murder to postpone the elections. They eventually moved for a few days, I think, but not really postponed. At least that's when I knew it was possible. Hopefully we won't have to deal with that now. The questions have been adequately answered in themselves, but I would like to mention one more point: the evaluation that is also being carried out of the reclassification elections. If it is not done, is it possible in another way to take a good look at it, including the use of powers of attorney? Can we still get that evaluation before the second law is dealt with? In any case, our party will vote for the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u70	Mr. Chairman. We are voting today on a law that in principle also applies to the forthcoming Lower House elections, unless there is another law, but we are voting on that law. That law is not acceptable to our group without measures such as letter voting. That is why we have asked the Minister to reconsider whether it is right that the vote by letter should only be allowed for people over 70 and whether it is not much more important to extend it, in principle to anyone who is afraid of becoming infected. I have pointed out that it is a question of millions of voters. I actually only heard the Minister repeat what is already in her letter, why the 70-year-old limit was chosen, but I did not hear her say whether it would be possible to think again about whether that is a correct limit and whether the vote by letter should not be introduced at all, especially during this period of corona. It would solve a lot. Mrs Baay pointed out that the people of a polling station could be infected. It's not illegal to just go to the polling room while you're infected. We close restaurants, theatres and so on because we want to avoid risk. Well, if you want to avoid risk in a voting room, how nice would it be to give people the opportunity to vote by letter? I would therefore like to table a motion on this matter. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas voting by letter is recommended by the State Committee on Parliamentary System;]] [[Whereas, in the case of voters belonging to the vulnerable groups for infection with COVID-19, the vote by letter provides the possibility to take part in the vote without contact with potentially infected persons;]] [[Whereas there is a real risk that those who have symptoms of COVID-19 will nevertheless vote and that the vote by letter may reduce that risk;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in the context of the announced amendment of the Temporary Law on Elections covid-19, the possibility of opening the vote by letter to all voters who cannot or do not wish to go to the polling room in connection with the spread of the COOVID-19 virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-35590-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u71	That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u72	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP Group. He's quitting his speaking time. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for the supplementary questions. A single question was accidentally left behind, for which I apologize. Mr Van der Linden asked about the presence at the count and possibly the large numbers of people there. We have to follow the rules. So the 1.5 meters also apply to those who would like to be present. If there are actually more people who want to be present than there can be at that place because of the 1.5 meters, then it will have to be organized on the spot that it goes by number. People can be there for a while, and then they have to make room for other people. That is, of course, the only way to ensure that it is public and that people can be there. But of course there will be less than usual. Mr Van der Linden returned to the powers of attorney. I would like to say once again here: recruitment is a criminal offence, but tampering with powers of attorney is also of course a criminal offence. So you can't. In the form of that power of attorney given by e-mail, this has been taken into account. So that's hard, and there's line patterns in there that can't easily be tampered with. Of course, I am not completely deaf to what Mr Van der Linden brings to his attention, namely that today digital can do a lot. I am going to look at it very carefully in the further development and also in the preparation of the second legislative proposal, because that is obviously not the intention. I forgot the referenda, Mr. Van Hattem. I apologize. But the local, regional or provincial referenda are not covered by the Kieswet, so they are not covered by this law either. I think I just said something about deep fake, fake and manipulation in response to Van der Linden. That's what the House of Representatives was all about. Manipulation and influence through fake news more generally are matters that I have been working on for a long time from my ministry. And I also bring it very actively to the attention of people. We will certainly continue to do so in the run-up to these elections. It was asked whether someone who is removed but still has their voices, could come back later on the same day. The answer to that is: yes, it can be done at another polling room or at the same voting room. If the person concerned behaves, he may then vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u74	Thank you to the Minister for looking at electronic security in the follow-up steps. We will probably get more information about the follow-up steps or the follow-up legislation. Does this also mean that the Minister will explicitly explain how it is guaranteed in the further development of these issues? This is very important for our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u75	Yeah, I'd like that. That is the spirit of the commitment I made. We're gonna take a closer look at that. I shall return to that in the context of the next legislative proposal. I was with Mr Van Hattem's questions. Another question that had remained, is: what if on the day someone wants to give a direct power of attorney to another person because of health problems; how does that relate to the corona rules? Mrs Baay-Timmerman had asked the same question. I imagine that you should keep your distance, just as you should, for example, when messages are delivered for a sick person. It's not forbidden to open the door. Nor is it forbidden for a bag with messages or a voting pass to change hands in this case, but it has to be remote, as unfortunately we are used to when we are helping each other. Think of neighbors, family or otherwise. There should therefore be no physical contact, but it is possible to hand over the voting card with the power of attorney in this way. So you see each other, but you don't get too close. As far as Turkish propaganda is concerned, I have already replied. The rules are the rules. They will also apply to these elections and be brought to the attention of the public. Then about the tortious act and the claim. Anyone can go to court, I say to Mr Van Hattem. That's fine and good, but I don't think that's very likely in this case. The norm in the law simply addresses the electorate's own responsibility. I would like to say to Mr Koole that we are certainly going to evaluate the reclassification elections. I have also promised in the House of Representatives that this evaluation will be completed for the Christmas holidays. But I may not have said that clearly enough in my first term, since the extension of the powers of attorney does not apply to the reclassification elections. So we don't have a visual on that yet. Mr Nicolaï of the Party for Animals had heard me say: 70 years is RIVM advice and objectivable for the municipalities. Of course, that is not true if you would like to add other groups that have underlying health problems, for example. I have to take a closer look at how the NICOLAI motion is expressed with letter F, because then I can immediately comment on it. The motion says to open the vote by letter to all voters. I don't think that's a crazy idea at all, but it encounters incredible practical objections. I'm not in favour of it. By voting in a letter, the Election Council also says that you are introducing an extra risk in the elections. That's already true for 70-plussers. That is a rather strong group in our society, namely 2.4 million people. But the more you make that group bigger, you're gonna expand that risk. Letter votes in general simply cannot be introduced until March 17th. So just to stick to that date, I can't go beyond writing for 70-plussers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u76	One more question per interruption, Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u77	Thank you for the commitment that the evaluation will be sent. My comment on the proxy was not that I do not understand that the powers of at least the extension of them do not yet apply in the reclassification elections. My question was whether the reclassification elections were opposed to the fact that there were insufficient powers of attorney because they were not yet extended. Can that question be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u78	Finally, I fully understand Mr Koole. That question will be taken up, absolutely. I must discourage Mr Nicolaï's motion with letter F on the letter vote. That's where I left off. I would like to conclude with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Minister. Before I close the debate, I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u80	Still an interruption. I also asked a question about fraud and recruitment practices. What does the Minister give for extra vigilance towards the municipalities? What is being done about it? What has been done so far with the recommendations of the 2015 Election Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u81	The bill doesn't see that at all. It's just common practice. Ronseling is forbidden, and we fight against it in every election. Municipalities see that, they have that responsibility. I will repeat that and the congregations will repeat it. The proposal does not alter it and does not add anything to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u82	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u83	However, I read in the proposal that there should be extra vigilance in municipalities, because the number of powers of attorneys is increased. So the risk is greater. That's what the Election Council says. My question is, in fact, what the Minister is going to do in these elections, where this risk is greater, and what the municipalities can do to be extra vigilant. It is now said that municipalities should be extra vigilant, but that is a bit of an open door. What is meant by this in concrete terms and what is being done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u84	I have already said this in my first term: the possibility of one additional power of attorney makes sense to be extra alert to that. We have already talked about the risk of being in the system. Hence my appeal, including to the municipalities. We're already watching each other, but since we're talking about a third power of attorney, there's extra reason to keep an eye on that. But not in any other way than that we did otherwise. So that call will apply, and I will do it extra because of the increase in the number of powers of attorneys.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u86	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-8.u87	Anybody want a note? That is not the case. I propose that we vote on the motion at the next sitting.
