ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mrs. Diks has written an extensive letter. I'm not gonna read it to you, I let you know, but it's a shortened version. Last night I got your suicide note. In view of the circumstances, I do not entirely read them. I'd like to quote a few things from your letter. You write that for a party like GroenLinks, defense is not necessarily an issue. Yet you have been committed to that and stood up for the Defense personnel, for their safety and especially their reward. Your portfolio Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is another source of inspiration. In your eyes, the presentation of the Netherlands as a great trading country is in stark contrast to the damage it causes to people, animals, nature and climate. You also reflect on the events surrounding your waiting money and accommodation expenses. You don't want to leave it unnamed when you say goodbye, you write. I quote: "I should have refused the waiting money right away and stopped the fee sooner." You're going to pay that back now, write in your letter. You close your letter by thanking the organization, your colleagues in the group and in particular your husband. Now I'm going to say a few words to you, very briefly. Dear Mrs. Diks, dear Isabelle, we say goodbye in a strange situation. There's no full room and you're in the President's Lodge because you're not a Member of Parliament anymore. Nevertheless, as usual when a Member of Parliament leaves, I would like to say a few words to you. You started at the end of 2008 to replace a MP who went on maternity leave. You had been on it for 12 years in the municipality of Apeldoorn and the Provincial States of Gelderland. So you knew a lot about local and provincial politics. Originally, you were an entrepreneur; I didn't know that either. You had a company as a fashion designer and a bed and breakfast. After your temporary membership, you became alderman in Leeuwarden. About ten years later, at the last parliamentary elections, you came back to The Hague. You got the wallets Defence and Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. In recent months, you've been in the news a lot, not always positive. In your own letter, you said what you needed to know. That wasn't only annoying for you, but also for the standing of the Chamber. Now that you're leaving us, you're heading north again, back to municipal politics for the third time. You'll be alderman in Groningen. You know I'm always critical of colleagues who don't complete their electoral mandate. That is certainly true in your case, because you were chosen with preferred votes. In the end, everyone makes their own choices. We wish you every success in your new position. Take care.
