ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u1	This debate is about fire-threatening insulation material in residential homes. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. It speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch people are worried about the fire safety of their home. Recently research among tenants revealed that almost two thirds of their concerns about the fire safety of their apartment or apartment. Many older people are particularly concerned and their fears are not unfounded. Firefighters, insurance experts and various professors have also raised several alarms. On 14 June 2017, the London Grenfell Tower burned down, with disastrous consequences. No less than 72 people were killed. The building was recently renovated with plastic insulation material. The same material is also used in the Netherlands to isolate buildings. As a result of the fire, ZEMBLA made a shocking broadcast about whether such a fire could happen in the Netherlands. Turned out what? The fire safety of buildings in the Netherlands was often not guaranteed. For example, there was a senior apartment in Nijmegen which was claimed to be very difficult to burn. After questions from ZEMBLA it turned out to be very flammable. The Grenfell brand and the broadcast of ZEMBLA raised many questions. Can there also be burning torches of homes in our country? How many buildings with dangerous facades or hazardous insulation material are there? How's the surveillance coming? Has the cabinet learned lessons from the Grenfell brand and, if so, which ones? But, Chairman, that broadcast is now a year and a half ago. Over a year and a half. We have been waiting so long for this debate, but the question is: can the Minister now answer the questions? After political pressure from the Lower House, an investigation was promised by the Minister. All municipalities had to inventory if they had buildings with fire-threatening facades, but now, one and a half years later, not even all municipalities have begun to do so. How is that possible, I ask the cabinet. Only one municipality has gone to talk to an owner of a risky building. Yeah, really, one. How is this possible, I ask the Minister. Why is this cabinet waiting when the consequences can be so great? Emeritus professor Jos Lichtenberg stated because of the enormous slowness of research that safety is not taken seriously by the government. His own inventory shows that more than 1,000 buildings in the Netherlands may not be safe. The question is: will the Minister finally ensure that municipalities and provinces act quickly? As far as my party is concerned, much more needs to be done. Materials to isolate and the combinations in which they are used must be safe. And if there is a fire, it must be ensured that people can leave the building quickly and safely. For older people in particular, I would like to draw attention once again to the problem of people with disabilities. More than half of the wounded and killed by fire is 65-pluser. The ageing population, the closure of nursing homes and the extramuralisation increase the risks associated with fire safety. What's the minister gonna do for them? What about the escape routes? What kind of investigations are there now? And more importantly, when are we going to take action? Is the Minister prepared to require evacuation facilities in high-rise buildings and residential care complexes? Also in homes there are problems with fire safety. Over and over again we asked questions about unsafe Nefit boilers and unsafe AGPO Ferro-oil boilers. Have the Nefit boilers all been adapted? Is the Minister prepared to ensure that all unsafe AGPO boilers are replaced? Mr. Chairman. My final point. If there is a fire, there must be enough fire-fighting water. In the province of Groningen there are no less than 5,000 places where there are insufficient fire hydrants or connections to water. How many of these places are in the rest of the Netherlands, I ask the cabinet. Can we ensure that fires can be put out everywhere as quickly as possible? Mr. Chairman. My last sentence. This debate has been the longest on the list. In the meantime, far too little has happened. In fact, I find it sad that we still have to talk today about research results that are still not there, one and a half years after this debate has been requested. Let the cabinet finally show action today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u3	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u4	Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that it is now more than two and a half years ago, we do not forget the images of 14 June 2017: the terrible fire in the Grenfell Tower in which no less than 72 people died. Also last year we were all alarmed again by a big fireworks incident in which a father and a son died in an apartment. We must do everything in our power to prevent this kind of horror as much as possible. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister, in the aftermath of the London tragedy, had the risk cases in the Netherlands listed. This also raises questions, as the Minister reports that 74% of the municipalities had started the inventory in September 2019. Only one municipality has completed all three steps of the inventory. D66 finds that very disappointing. This is about the safety of a lot of people. Has every municipality started an inventory? What is the status of steps B and C? In short, does the Minister think that municipalities show sufficient urgency here? We are also receiving signals from Mr Lichtenberg, a former teacher of mine, who said that the inventory tool was not applied in a clear way by municipalities, while the safety requirements for each municipality should simply be the same. Does the Minister recognise the signals that municipalities fill out the tool differently? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that all municipalities complete the inventory in the short term? In short, how do we ensure that flats in each municipality are sufficiently safe in the short term? Mr. Chairman. This reminds me a bit of the whole discussion we have had about the use of stainless steel in pools. I have been drawing attention to this for years, and the inventory is not going to help. I'd like to remind you of that one more time. Many more steps have already been taken in the countries around the Netherlands to combat fires in residential towers. For example, in the United Kingdom it is no longer allowed to use flammable upholstery of buildings at more than 18 metres height. This while our minister is waiting for the results of the Advisory Committee on Application and Equivalence of Construction Regulations (ATGB) to be expected at any time. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what lessons he is taking from the British investigation that was presented in January. How are these included in the research by the ATGB and how does it make our high-rise building safe as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. In order to meet our housing ambitions now and in the future, we need to build up the air. High-rise construction also brings with it new safety risks. The fire department warned in August that fire safety of new high-rise buildings is at the bottom of the priority list. The fire department can't do much once there's a fire going on. They are only taken into account late in the design process which creates resistance. In short, no very hopeful signals. Can the Minister reflect on this? Are designers and licencers sufficiently capable of critically checking high-rise designs for safety? How does the Minister ensure that fire prevention is in the first, second and third place when it comes to safety regulations for high-rise construction? The third and final point is the materials passport. D66 strongly supports this instrument. The passport makes an important contribution to our desire to build circularly, so to make construction more sustainable. With this passport, we determine which materials are incorporated into a structure. Wouldn't it be nice to know more about building safety with this passport? Is the Minister prepared to include safety and fire safety aspects in the further development of this passport and regulation? Does the Minister agree with D66 that this reinforces the need for a material passport? For example, we are not only working on a circular future for construction, but also on a safe future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u6	Mr. Chairman. Isolation of homes and buildings is a good thing. Well insulated buildings cost less energy. Non-use of energy is still the best step for the climate. But isolation can also bring disadvantages. Fire safety is one of them. The fire in the London Grenfell Tower temporarily woke us up. But now we're a few years away and few seem to be concerned about what happened then. Recently, the municipality of Nijmegen presented the results of an inventory of buildings with façade plating, the fire safety of which may be at stake. That's 62. It didn't cause any fuss. According to experts, risks have not disappeared. If there are 62 properties in Nijmegen alone for further research, this will be a lot more for the whole of the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Minister instructed the municipalities to make an inventory of possible risk exposures in their municipalities. That overview appears to be there by now. Is that right? Can that be made public? Is the Minister aware of what action is being taken? More and more municipalities want high-rise buildings, but the fire department's ladders reach a height of 30 meters. Up there, the fire department can only fight a fire inside. The fire department wants more fire safety to be considered in high-rise plans. The use of better building materials is advocated. According to the fire department, about 10% of construction costs should be reserved for fire-proof construction. It is at odds with the affordability of new buildings. How do we ensure that we build safely, but also affordable? I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. How does he think that balance can be guarded? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to raise the issue of solar panels in relation to fire. My colleague Agnes Mulder has asked questions about this before. The fire department's worried about this. Those solar panels are sometimes poorly installed, as it turned out last weekend during the storm, and they make it difficult to put out fires. In the meantime, there are over 700,000 solar panels on Dutch homes, but is there sufficient attention to fire safety aspects? When the panels are connected over multiple premises and when they catch fire, the fire spreads from one house to another, from number 7 to 9 to 11. The fire walks right over the rooftops to the other houses. Thus, with the new phenomenon of solar panels, we are also faced with new problems, including new challenges. Can we do something about this? Is there a need for regulation? Are agreements with the sector needed? Is this on the table with the minister? Can the Minister respond to that? Mr. Chairman. We have received an extensive letter from Brandweer Nederland and the Association of Insurers. I assume the Minister himself knows that letter. There are several aspects to which our group would like to hear a response from the Minister. For example, it is claimed that it is wrong to install façade coverings and carry out maintenance work on them. Is that right? Is that right? What would be a good reaction from the government? It is also written that in the Netherlands it is even allowed to work on flammable insulation with open fire, which means that there are unnecessary fires. This is prohibited in other countries. What does the Minister think of the idea of doing something about this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to raise the issue of vulnerable groups who are not able to flee quickly enough in the event of uncertainty, when there is a fire, for example. We have discussed this extensively with the Minister before. The Minister responded in his letter of 31 January with the state of play on the implementation of various commitments and motions on fire safety for older people. We have made several proposals for this. Much has already been done, and I congratulate the Minister and the Cabinet. We are curious about the results of various studies that have been started. However, I would like to comment on chimney fires. That's 2,000 a year in the Netherlands. How can we in the Netherlands together ensure that something as simple as a chimney fire, which often has to do with maintenance, can be prevented more often and better? What can we do about that? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u7	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u8	Mr. Chairman. The VVD often disagrees with other parties on the role of the government and on what the government should or should not interfere with, but I think the whole Chamber agrees that the government should monitor security. This applies to all types of safety: street safety, but also to the safety of buildings and houses. In May 2018, ZEMBLA published a study on fire-hazardous insulation material in the facades of a senior complex in Nijmegen, and in March 2019 Kassa reported that 150,000 hazardous CV boilers of AGPO Ferroli are in use. More needs to be done for fire safety and a definitive solution for the dangerous central heating boilers. The investigation of ZEMBLA has shown that errors have been made in the construction of not fully fire-resistant insulation material in facades. It is important to identify where these unsafe buildings are, so that people do not have to worry. After the fire at the Grenfell Tower in London, the government asked municipalities to take stock of the most unsafe buildings. Now it appears that many municipalities have not yet started this inventory. Is the Minister prepared to take the lead and ensure that municipalities carry out the inventory as soon as possible? Provinces should supervise this. How do provinces do this? Can this be improved from the provinces themselves and from the Ministry? In addition, the VVD would like to see a roadmap to solve the problems in collaboration with municipalities and corporations. Where problems are identified, everyone now seems to be looking for a solution. Is there now a policy to coordinate and control the recovery? Finally, on fire safety. The Quality Assurance for Building Act can be a solution to prevent these problems in the future. What is the Minister doing to bring this law into force as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. Then the dangerous resume boilers. Earlier, together with the SP, I tabled a motion calling on the Minister to take appropriate measures in response to the NVWA investigation into the dangerous boilers. We also called on the Minister to open a 0800 number. A study was then carried out by the NVWA indicating that a large part of the boilers in question are over their technical life. Is the Minister prepared to ask corporations to replace boilers over their technical lifespan and make the necessary adjustments to the other boilers? About the 0800 number, the minister wrote that people who have such a kettle can already call the NVWA or the maintenance company. Can the Minister indicate how many reports have come in? And on that basis does the Minister still have the image that a separate number is not needed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can all remember the images of the terrible fire in London, more than two and a half years ago. Today we are discussing the security situation of buildings in the Netherlands with the Minister. In November 2018, the Minister instructed all municipalities to make an inventory of risk buildings. Last September we received an update and we didn't get very happy about it. Other speakers have already said it. Most municipalities are either in the first phase or have not even started an inventory. As GroenLinks, we find this very worrying. I would therefore like to know from the Minister how he looks at this and what he is going to do about it in order to improve it in the short term. I am also curious to hear the Minister's answer to the questions that have been asked about the large differences between the numbers of hazardous buildings in the analyses that scientists make and the numbers that the government itself brings with it, because there are really huge differences between them. How is that possible? Both in Eindhoven and Rotterdam it turned out that way. We hear from residents as well as from the industry itself that there are serious concerns about whether the cabinet takes this seriously, or whether the risk of fire-dangerous facades is not underestimated. What is the Minister going to do to remove that image and when can we finally expect this national evaluation? Before I go straight on with what is expected of municipalities, I would like to mention at least one point that is clear that the government is going to do. That is about which fire-threatening materials are and are not allowed. Because, if we understand correctly, I am very curious to hear the Minister's reaction, and the materials that have caused such great problems as in England, are still allowed to be used in the Netherlands. That cannot be true, as I say to you, Mr President, but it is actually a question for the Minister. When will these materials finally be banned? Are there any tests yet? Are they just waiting or is the Minister prepared to temporarily ban these materials so as not to run unnecessary risks? Mr. Chairman. All the Minister's hopes are currently based on a rather non-binding protocol. I have some specific questions about that. Why isn't there a timeline for implementing that protocol? And perhaps the most important question: why is that so noncommittal? Why is this no longer mandatory for municipalities? In the second period, depending on the Minister's reply, I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Why, for example, has no budget been made available? And who is responsible if a building with this protocol is not scaled up to the right level? Mr. Chairman. I would like to use my last minute to address a somewhat broader problem that is now being addressed. Because it's not just about facades. The report of the ILT, which was leaked through NRC yesterday, reveals a very worrying picture. This report concludes on the basis of six years of inspection research and analysis of hundreds of land use plans, in-depth interviews and regulations that national interests are often affected by decentralisation of spatial policy. I think it is quite typical that we have a debate this evening that was requested many years ago, but in which this is actually painful. Municipalities seem to be insufficient to guarantee a safe living environment in all cases. I would very much like a response from the Minister. What does this say about our policy? And how are we going to remove these concerns and restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u11	Thank you. Then we proceed to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fire hazard can, of course, occur anywhere. When I sat here and looked around me, I thought, "The Knight's Room is 730 years old." I'm afraid it wants to burn pretty badly here. The room's not moving for nothing. There are, of course, many buildings in the Netherlands that have a very long history and that may not be quite as fireproof as we would have liked them to be. I'm gonna ask the Minister if he's got a little insight into that. Does he also have a view of a difference between public buildings, schools, hospitals, health care institutions and more private buildings? Does he also have a view of the difference between older buildings, like the Chamber of Representatives, this is the new part, but we have very old parts here and new buildings? Is there a lot of risk difference between them? Does the Minister have any control over that? And does he want to inform the Chamber about that? Mr. Chairman. Previous speakers Mr Koerhuis has already said that we all want the same thing, namely that it is becoming a bit fireproof in this country. I'll be happy to join you on that. In particular, I consider Mr Ronnes' question about solar panels to be relevant. I've seen that footage, too; it looks like shit. You'll only have neighbors with solar panels, which you think are a bit black laid out by instructors who aren't qualified. Then you'll sleep a lot less well. I am therefore also asking the Minister, certainly because we are getting a lot more of these things on the roofs, which the PvdA is also in favour of, how is it ensured that fire safety does not increase. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my third and final point. You can still build so securely, but if the behavior isn't there, things are gonna go down anyway. I have been visiting a housing corporation in Rotterdam, which sees the number of fires go up. That really scares you, because there are many fires every month. That's because more and more people are living on their own who really can't handle it. So people with mental or psychiatric problems, people who really don't know what to do, or, for example, people who demente and accidentally leave the gas on. That's what really happens to disasters. You can make it all slowly flammable and so on, but when people set things on fire themselves, of course it gets miserable. Does the Cabinet have an eye for that? And does it see that this is also related to the so-called appropriate allocation, the extramuralisation of care and the fact that more and more problem cases are coming together also as a cause of the increasing number of fires? In Rotterdam I saw that myself with that housing corporation. He explained the figures. But I don't have a national image of that. And if so, what will the Minister do about it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u13	Thank you. Then we go to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mr. Kops from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fire in London caused 72 deaths and 77 injuries. The fire spread rapidly through the façade, which had just been renovated with plastic insulation material. That is why two questions are important to us now. One: where has the same or similar material been used in the Netherlands? And two: what is being done to prevent such a fire and all its misery? This debate was requested about one and a half or two years ago. Admittedly, we have not had this debate before is, of course, primarily up to the Chamber itself. But on the other hand, if so much time goes by, you would expect the Minister to have a comprehensive, perfect answer to the two questions I just asked. But nothing could be further from the truth. The Minister first wanted to wait for the results of the English investigation and then would come up with a response, with lessons to be drawn from the London fire. Those results have been there for a long time, and I may be wrong, but I haven't seen an extensive response with lessons being drawn. So how's that going? And what's taking so long? The Minister is far too waiting, far too laconic. I quote: "There is no indication that in the Netherlands there are large-scale buildings with facades that do not meet the legal requirements. However, it is possible that some buildings are not or are not sufficiently fireproof." Those are all open doors. Which buildings are not or are not sufficiently fireproof? That's what we want to know. The Minister sent a letter to all municipalities asking them to carry out an inventory of the most risky buildings. That was a long time ago, too, so how's that going? So what did that prove? Is the minister just sending letters or is something happening? Actually, I have no idea. I have absolutely no idea what the Minister is doing in this respect. Admittedly, an inventory was carried out in Nijmegen of all places. Of 62 buildings with façade plates, fire safety is possible at stake. A senior complex with 161 apartments was initially isolated with fireproof plates. Well, that's gonna be modified later, thank goodness. But what about all the other buildings and all the other municipalities? We can't hear about it anymore. It seems as if the urgency has subsided a little, years after the fire in London. Is that right? That would not be good, because the popularity of façade plates and other insulation material has not diminished, especially in times of sustainability and climate hysteria. Corporations are isolating their homes like a mess. Take Zoetermeer, where social rental houses are completely packed with thick plates and insulation walls of no less than 40 centimeters thick. That's incredibly wide, incredibly thick. Sprouting walls are used for e.g. purfoam. It's all happening. Of course, we have always said: that is complete madness. It's nonsensical. It's priceless. It is also bad for health, because homes are practically airtight. But what I really wanted to ask is: how fireproof is that? I don't know. So, Minister, please, go ahead. Mr President, I will conclude. The conclusions are actually as follows. One: the Minister does not know how many buildings are not or are not sufficiently fireproof. Two: the municipalities are also failing. And three: we still don't know what lessons the minister draws from the fire in London. In other words, it's three times nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u15	Thank you. I know by now that the Minister would like to suspend for 15 minutes, so I will suspend the sitting until 8:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u16	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The subject on the agenda today, fire safety, is extremely important. When we see the images of the Grenfell Tower, cited by some of you, it also charges the obligation on all of us, in the various responsibilities of local authorities, government and owners of buildings, to do everything to ensure that buildings are fireproof. We are therefore constantly working to ensure that this subject does not just disappear somewhere in a desk drawer. On the contrary. This is also reflected in the debate I am having with your Chamber and in the general discussion last November, in which we discussed this in detail. We are constantly looking at the risks that we are in contact with the municipalities; I will say something about them in a moment, but also what requirements we might need to tighten up. Because if we look ahead, not yet knowing what the results of reports from the ATGB, among others, are, I think that if we consider security to be so important, we should always make that weighting between costs and security; Mr Ronnes also mentioned this earlier in the debate. This is ultimately about safety, and if there is a price tag on it, you must have very good reasons to say that printing the price is more important than safety. After the images of the Grenfell Tower in 2017, everyone said: we do not want this to happen here in the Netherlands. That is precisely why my predecessor's actions have led to this fire. As early as mid 2018, the Advisory Committee on Application and Equivalence of Construction Regulations was commissioned to issue an opinion containing the lessons that the Netherlands can learn from this fire, based on the formal English research report. Unfortunately, as I say to a number of Members of the Court who have made comments on this matter, it has taken a long time, and perhaps too long. But we did feel that we should base ourselves on that report. The ATGB should also be able to have that report in order to finally deliver its opinion. They're working on that right now. The opinion is expected to be ready next month, and I hope that it will succeed. Following that opinion, I will also consider whether further tightening of fire safety legislation or other building regulations is necessary. I will send that advice to your Chamber immediately as soon as it is in, and perhaps only then provide it with a response; that will depend on it. I believe that we need to deal with this urgently, because there is a lot at stake. I am not saying that there would be an unsafe situation in the Netherlands, taken by the bank and compared to other countries, quite the contrary. I think we live in a country where we already have a lot of regulations and regulations. But that does not relieve us of the obligation to look closely at where we have evidence that buildings are vulnerable or that there is similar building systems or material use as in London. In anticipation of this advice, I have previously decided to launch an inventory of buildings with potentially risky facades. That was also the subject of the debate in November. This inventory is indeed carried out by municipalities, as the competent authority, on the basis of the BZK-protocol inventory and research fire safety facades, which we have prepared in consultation with Brandweer Nederland and the Vereniging Bouw- en Woningverklaring. Indeed, at least 74% of all municipalities had started this inventory. That was also the information in the general consultation of November. Following that general consultation on 20 November, I sent a letter to the Chamber on 13 December, at the request of Mrs Beckerman, responding to the article in the magazine Gevelbouw. I would just like to say once again that I think it is important that municipalities really start those actions that I have asked them to launch, and that they do those inventories. On the basis of the results of the ATGB report, which is based on the English report, I will send a further letter to the municipalities in March asking them to take up this inventory in so far as it has not been done, and to carry it forward as far as it has already begun. Then I will see how we can follow up on this. I'll keep your Chamber informed. I say to Mrs Beckerman and Mr Koerhuis, who have tabled a motion on this together, that if the results are insufficient and that I have the impression that the feeling of security is not taken up in all the municipalities, then I will ask the provinces to take this up in the context of intergovernmental supervision of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u18	Mrs Beckerman has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u19	The minister says he's still waiting for an investigation report and he's going to see if there's any need for regulation. I find that very vague, if I'm being honest. Tomorrow, for example, we will have a debate on all the climate measures we are going to take in the built environment: lots of solar panels, lots of insulation. There will also be a housing impulse. We're gonna build a lot. If we do not know in time what a safe way of building or isolating is, this means that we will potentially have many more buildings with problems. Can the Minister be more specific? At what time does he expect to be able to respond to that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u20	I understand that question very well. I would say that if that report comes to us, we will forward it to the Chamber as soon as possible. First of all, I promised. In that sense, this debate is a little too early, because I cannot force that report sooner. It's always complicated when you put pressure on externals to produce reports earlier. I have another debate on this in the Chamber. So I feel sorry for the planning that lies ahead. Because the English report has been delayed for so long, ATGB has also been delayed. The moment the report arrives, the Chamber will get it and I will get it as soon as possible, because you also need a good debate on this point, see what that means for the way in which we build, for our building regulations, for fire safety regulations. Does that have any consequences? This is because you have to weigh precisely to what extent the situation in the Netherlands is comparable. This will also partly be based on the results of the inventory and what comes back from it. At some point you have to make a choice whether and in what form you should tighten up your regulations in order to increase security. Regulations are very important. Rules, too. But at the same time, I must also miss the good Dutch word "knowingness" with everyone who is responsible for building management, owners, for how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u21	Urgency, consciousness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your awareness is also of great importance. So it's rules and culture together. I would like to have that debate with your Chamber and, as far as I am concerned, as soon as possible. At the time when I receive the report on 30 March, it is no longer possible to send it with a commentary in the direction of the Chamber for that debate. But I will do so as soon as possible, because I also see that we have actually lost some time and that this needs to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u23	I hear very often "as soon as possible." Of course that sounds nice, but of course this is a kind of pattern. We have an incident, a violent fire. Then politics is equally aware of the situation. There's attention to that. A report will be given. That's delayed again. And when the report comes, we're gonna think again. And that's how you're years away where there are unsafe situations. I'd like a little more of a time frame. I suppose the cabinet itself has thought about this. Many countries have already taken measures. Can the Minister promise that we can see these measures at least before the summer? 'Cause it seems like we've been waiting a really long time. In the meantime, England has taken measures of its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u24	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u25	We agreed that we would go through this process. I shared that with your room in November. I would have preferred it sooner, so as far as I am concerned, we will get to work as quickly as possible. I don't think it's a problem to give a first reaction for the summer anyway. I'd say even sooner if I could. It was asked what changes in legislation and regulations this will lead to. I just can't figure that out because I don't know the advice, the report. You are now asking me to judge something I do not know. I find that extremely careless. Mrs Beckerman knows me: if I make a commitment, I want to be able to live up to it. As soon as possible is really as fast as possible. When it comes to security, we're not gonna make concessions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u26	On this point, too, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u27	I also listened very carefully to the Minister. I also hear a lot of "as soon as possible." Just on another trail, that of inventory. On the question of whether the provinces can be involved as supervisors, I hear the Minister say that he is willing to do so in the long term. On the one hand, we can see that the fire happened almost three years ago. On the other hand, only one municipality has actually started the inventory. Isn't now the time to turn the provinces into regulators?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u28	74% of all municipalities had already started the inventory. To what extent they have now completed it, I cannot judge. As soon as I send the report, including to the municipalities, with the request to launch that inventory, I would also like to know from the municipalities how they stand. I'd like to inform the Chamber about that before the summer. I've reported that before. I think that threatening with the Koerhuis motion, because that's what it is in fact... No, Mr. Koerhuis, you don't. You just filed a motion that was adopted in the Chamber. But I take that motion extremely seriously. I see it as a stick behind the door for municipalities that obviously should not take this case seriously. I can hardly imagine it, but if it is necessary, then we can use the Courage motion to scale up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u29	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Perhaps there will be a slightly sharper movement that could then be threatened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u30	Well, I think that motion was pretty clear. I think I have enough to communicate in the direction of the municipalities that they need to pick this up and get on with it. Because in the end, it's important that we do this together. That is the shared responsibility that Mr Smeulders spoke of when talking about the responsibilities that lie with municipalities, but also with provinces and the Empire. We need to do this together. This is not just a matter of the Empire. Then with regard to the tightening up of fire safety requirements for residential buildings...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u31	Before you proceed, Minister, Mr Ronnes also has a question on this point. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u32	I was a little doubting whether or not I would ask this question. This was a long time ago. I know that we have had the first discussions on this issue with your predecessor, Minister Ollongren. It rejected a bit that it should check the municipalities to see whether they are carrying out the control activities that should be carried out. We are now a considerable time ahead. Does the Minister agree with me, but I believe that more people here in the Chamber should have acted more efficiently and effectively? I understand you shouldn't be in the role of the municipalities. They have their own responsibility. But if something so big happens, if you want to learn from any mistakes that are made in construction, municipalities should do a screening very quickly. Let's just say we've got six months for it. All the municipalities screen their buildings. You're taking that information together. You're analyzing the causes. Then you know if you have to take action. That doesn't have to take as long as it's taken now, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u33	I am inclined to answer Mr Ronnes' question with: I think it could have been quicker. But then I'll shave all the congregations in one place. I do not really like that, but in a number of cases it will certainly be. We want to base the measures we are going to take on the results of investigations. This risk inventory can now simply be started. That is also what we have drawn up the protocol for. There's no reason why municipalities wouldn't pick that up, I'd almost say. But I do like the house of Thorbecke, in the sense that municipal councils also have a responsibility here to address lectures that do not participate or that do not get to work soon enough. I told you, I'm gonna send you a second letter. There's already a first letter. I'm gonna send a second letter. I am threatening Mr Koerhuis. Then I guess municipalities... He's already announced he wants to file another motion. So I'm a little reluctant to say right away: we're gonna take care of that. I understand you appeal to me on this. It is also your right to do so. But it is also my duty to point out where the responsibilities lie. And yes, I'm naturally impatient. I think this is the kind of thing you should just speed up. I am very sorry that this research is not available earlier, but I cannot pull the grass out of the ground. But if there is, you will get it, also with an appreciation. Then, I suppose, before the summer, we also have a debate on that report, on the recommendations it makes and on the implications for legislation and regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u34	Mrs Beckerman, again on this same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u35	Yes, Mr. Chairman, if I may. Look, it's really easy when governments all point to each other. Of course, that's what's happening now. What if as a city council you do publish your results? A number of municipalities have done so. That, of course, leads to unrest in such a municipality. The longer other municipalities wait, the longer the municipalities that have completed their research will have to wait for the minister for concrete measures. That is, of course, a very painful situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u36	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u37	That's why I'm asking you again. The municipalities that have done well now have to wait extra long, even for the cabinet. Isn't it even more important from that point of view to put a little more pace behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u38	Two things are mixed up here. The first is that an inventory is being made. That is a responsibility of the municipalities. To that end, we have called on them, and I will call them once again. The second track is the report you need first, with the advice. That's the process we've all set in motion. The Chamber also supported doing it that way. Before I do, I can't take measures. That would be ins Blaue hinein reasoning. So we shouldn't do that. The municipalities have to get to work. That's a lot of work, I guess. The municipalities that have not yet started must start as the weed again. Other municipalities I urge to continue with this. You can only take measures after the report has been discussed here, a debate has taken place and the laws and regulations have been amended. So it's two parallel trajectories. What if municipalities haven't started yet? If we come up with recommendations immediately but these municipalities do not even know what buildings we are talking about, then Mrs Beckerman is right that we are being delayed. But I'm not pointing to congregations at all. On the contrary, I merely point out the responsibilities. The competent authority in this regard is the municipality. We are responsible for legislation and regulation at a state level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u39	So just a little sharp on that timeline. You will receive that report this month or next month and then you will go to the municipalities again. You also say: before the summer I can come up with an initial indication. Yeah, but if you don't go back to the municipalities until next month, it could be a long time. How long are we gonna wait till all these towns are done with that? So it may still be a long time before we can really take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u40	I say it again: I attach myself to the house of Thorbecke that we have in our country. In it powers have been conferred on municipalities. We should not take them over here in the Lower House or in the Cabinet. We are responsible here for laws and regulations and for whether they should be adapted. We can do that on the basis of the report we're about to receive. And again, you'll get it as soon as you can. If these laws and regulations are necessary, they must be set in motion. It does not come into force immediately, but still needs to be dealt with and so on. So there's time to go over it anyway. Municipalities, on the other hand, have their own responsibility to identify which buildings are risky buildings. If there are, owners must be contacted on the basis of permits to which they must comply. So it's two paths that go together. Everyone has to do their job within their own responsibilities. We can talk here, in the traffic between Chamber and Cabinet, about building and fire safety regulations at the state level, which has passed to the local level. Municipalities will have to monitor, maintain and continue to be responsible for permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u41	I sincerely hope that this is an incident and that we will not have to make such an inventory on another aspect or part of it again soon. I don't think I've been in the Chamber that long, but when I look back, we've got rust fr... I mean, there's no such thing as stainless steel. With stainless steel in swimming pools we have seen exactly the same trajectory. Municipalities had to check, provinces had to watch, we went to the Chamber to ask what was going on, there was nothing, it took longer, there was another letter and I had to urge all my city council members to ask questions in the city council myself. That's not gonna work, I can tell you. If this isn't an incident, I'd like it to be so, but it turns out there's something new coming up every time. How do we structuralally ensure that these kinds of inventories are picked up and executed by municipalities much faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u42	I refer again to political relations, in which municipalities have their own responsibilities in this regard and their own democratic supervision in the form of municipal councils where this can be discussed. Of course, by means of letters, we can call on municipalities to take their responsibility. I can't go beyond that, other than when municipalities say they're not gonna do it, because then we're dealing with the Koerhuis/Beckerman motion and then we're putting in inter-administrative supervision and the province is going to look at it as well. However, I assume that this is not necessary, but if it is necessary, we should simply use that instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u43	In any case, I am glad to hear that if we need to, we will have to look at how we organised it, but then my next question is, of course, when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u44	That's a bit of a rhetorical question, I think. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u45	That would be necessary in case a municipality says: we're just not going to do it. What is apparent from this, which also applies to many things that are going on in this country, is that cooperation between municipalities, provinces and the Empire is of great importance. We will soon have another consultation of this kind, even with the domes of the Treaty of Rome, which is very important if we are to fulfil this shared responsibility together. The responsibilities lie at different levels. That is the way we organised it in the Netherlands. So we have to be careful that we say on the basis of this example: the municipalities are not about that, the Empire has to be about that or we're going to organize it differently. Especially when it comes to a subject such as safety, I strongly believe that as a local driver you have your responsibility in it and you do what is necessary, because you have a heavy responsibility on you when you do nothing or not do enough about it. This also means that local democracy must do its job, in which municipal councils address lectures in case they fail to act. It is our job to conduct this debate. When we see that the inventory shows how big the problem is, it is up to us to address municipalities and perhaps help them where they need to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u46	I understand that in the end everyone has their part, but I really don't believe that this is a one-time thing. When I look at stainless steel are still not all pools organized. I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary of State that the drivers who do not take up this issue have a huge responsibility. If one of these boxes falls down again and someone dies or another tower goes up in flames and people become victims of it, it's with them, but that does make me very uncomfortable when I have to wait for another inventory and another inventory. I'll keep looking for something we can do to speed it up. Maybe not to take the role, but to speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u47	And that's a question you're asking the Minister, not the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u48	I think I have already shared some of my impatience with Mrs Van Eijs on this subject, but I can only say that as soon as we have everything, it is with you, but then the appreciation will come later because I need, of course, some time to study the report and see what consequences it has. Then we can have a debate in this Chamber as soon as possible, a sort of general debate on that report. Then we need to look at where this will lead to legislative and regulatory changes. That is our responsibility here and in the meantime that is also important I will also send that report to the municipalities. They then have an intrinsic motivation to get to work with that report, without me knowing what is in that report, because I haven't seen a letter of any concept yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u49	That's good, 'cause they won't be able to modify it from the Ministry if it hasn't been seen yet. I'd like to ask you about that protocol. I think we all agree that this protocol is incredibly important. What I do not fully understand is the Minister's reluctance to say: we actually believe that this protocol should become mandatory for all municipalities. Could he perhaps go into that a little further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u50	That is one of the questions asked by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u51	Yes, because you've asked that question before...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u52	But there is now such a debate on everything. This is a very important point and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u53	You will get that in a moment, but perhaps we can ask the Minister if he can take that answer with him right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u54	He can if he gets a chance to answer other questions in conjunction. Mr Smeulders indeed asked: why not a timeline for the protocol, why be so non-committal, why not a budget? In my letter I called on the municipalities to carry out this inventory as soon as possible. I did not mention a timeline, precisely because of the respect for decentralised responsibility. Of course, the municipality is about that, but I cannot imagine, even in view of this debate and previous debates that have taken place, that municipalities think: well, it is not important. That's what I think because of the safety. Then there's the resources for that. This is simply part of the general supervisory tasks of the municipalities. This is what municipalities are financed for. This is also a one-time inventory, you might say. That's what I'm assuming. If the report is there and if it subsequently leads to regulatory changes, then new permits will be issued, perhaps with amended regulations. That is the answer to Mr Smeulder's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u55	So the answer is actually: local autonomy, and they just have enough money for it. Then I don't quite understand something. The Minister states: we have to wait for all kinds of investigations before we see if we are going to take action. Perhaps I do not fully understand the protocol, but I think you can take steps on the basis of the protocol, for example if it turns out that the building is not safe. Why should we wait for that? I believe that we all have an interest in ensuring that this happens as soon as possible. So it's not like I want to make that protocol mandatory because I want to bully municipalities or something. I'd like that protocol to be mandatory so it's just safer. We believe that this can be done on the basis of the protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u56	I understand Mr Smeulder's question, because I am in a hurry. Once again, Mr Smeulders has also been a local director, as has a number of others here. And if you'd been in that position, you'd have wondered what you're gonna do with that, too. I don't think I would have said: well, leave that for a while, because we don't think that's important. I can't remember that from my own time as a local driver. But I'm gonna send that letter next month. It's February now, so in March I'm going to send that letter to those municipalities, accompanied by the report. In that I will also suggest... Well, let me rephrase. In that letter, I will not so much take Mr Smeulder's suggestion but the general feeling in the Chamber that urgency is needed on this subject, also because I myself fully agree with you that this point should not be postponed. Then that inventory starts. That's also reported back. This is, of course, important for us in the provision of information to see what kind of problems there are. But it is up to the municipalities themselves in the context of their supervisory task to act and intervene where necessary. So on that point I agree with Mr Smeulders: they do not have to wait until March, because they can actually do so now. But I do think that we should also be careful, because everyone feels that, of course, we certainly do not want to see and talk about a situation like that in London. Then we also know what this is about: what are the recommendations that result from it and what consequences does it have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u57	I would like to ask what Mrs Beckerman and Mr Smeulders asked. I heard the Minister, too. The report is due in March. I am also pleased with how sharply he uses the Koerhuis/Beckerman motion to possibly involve provinces as regulators and municipalities to impose obligations. That makes me doubt a sharper motion. But I do have one more question. It is in fact in line with what the previous speakers have asked. When is the Minister prepared to take these steps to involve provinces as regulators and impose municipal obligations? That report will come in March. If certain municipalities do not take action, is the Minister prepared to do so before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u58	With as-then I'm always a little careful, but if there was really such a situation, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u60	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u61	A number of members have then called for attention to be paid to vulnerable groups of people, who are less self-reliant and live in residential buildings. Work is currently under way to amend the building regulations. It aims to enable these people to escape as much as possible in the event of a fire. So prevention is one side. And if something happens, how do you get people to run fast? I will send this amendment to the building regulations to the Chamber in mid-March, in the framework of the pending procedure of the Building Environment Decision. In addition, new fire safety requirements have recently been included in the building regulations: by 1 July 2020, residential access doors in new residential buildings will have to be self-closing. This is also regulated in the amendment of the Building Decision. As of 1 January 2021, new and heavier requirements will apply to the control of smoke in new buildings. In addition, it has been agreed that other measures in existing residential buildings will be further examined together with the fire department. For example, recent research has been carried out by the Fire Weather Academy, in which fire tests have been carried out in an abandoned residential building. I will take the findings from this into account when taking any further action. Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of questions that I have put briefly in four blocks: facades, policy issues, various topics relating to fire, and boilers. That's the four cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u62	What are solar panels in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u63	That's a good one. I think they're in the block of fire objects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u64	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u65	Mrs Van Eijs asked what lessons I draw from the British study that was presented in January and how these lessons are taken into account. I have just indicated that I will inform you next month about the lessons that can be learned from that British investigation, on the basis of the advice that ATGB is finalising at the moment. Then we'll see what the consequences are. Mrs Van Eijs also asked if I could reflect on the fire department's concerns about new high-rise buildings, whether designers and licence providers are sufficiently capable of critically checking high-rise designs for safety, and how I guarantee that fire prevention is in place one, two and three in terms of safety regulations, as Mrs Van Eijs said. In the Netherlands, municipalities are the competent authority for building regulations, as I have just said. It is up to municipalities to involve the fire department at an early stage in the planning testing of high-rise buildings. So there, too, is really an important task for municipalities. My impression is that the municipal departments of Construction and Housing Control can critically assess high-rise projects for safety. Should such a thing be built at one time in municipalities where it does not play very much, because indeed, the pressure is increasing, as Mr Ronnes and Mrs Van Eijs said, because it is becoming increasingly high, then the municipalities, the judging officials, have the opportunity to hire external expertise. Furthermore, I am currently working on the further implementation of the Quality Assurance Act. Quality assurance will be carried out in the future by an independent and expert plan tester using authorised instruments. This will also increase building quality and fire safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u66	The minister says he is convinced that it is being looked at critically by municipalities. It would be nice if it were. But I am surprised that the fire department simply says that the fire safety of new high-rise buildings is at the bottom of the municipal priority list and that the fire department will not be included in the design process until later. Those are some kind of disturbing signals, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u67	Perhaps it would be a good idea if I included my response to the letter received, as far as these municipalities are concerned, in the letter I am going to send to the municipalities, also on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u68	You just reflected on the Quality Assurance Act and said it's coming. The VVD had the question of when. Can you take that with you right now, so that the subject is finished immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u69	The Quality Assurance Act may pass soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u70	Okay. He'll be here in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u71	If it isn't, it's gonna be... I see now that it is 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u73	Mrs Van Eijs wondered if I could recognize the signals that municipalities give different interpretations to the tool and what I will do to get municipalities to complete this whole inventory in the short term. How do we make sure that this is actually the core building that apartments or high residential buildings in each municipality are sufficiently safe in the short term? This tool has been carefully prepared in consultation and consultation with the Vereniging Bouw- & Woningverklaring Nederland and the Brandweer Nederland. So this is being picked up by the municipalities. I have promised earlier that I will send a letter to the municipalities and that I will take this point explicitly into account. Mrs Beckerman and Mr Koerhuis have already asked me about this side-by-side. They have asked whether I think that the municipalities show sufficient urgency. I don't have any new information about my previous letters, because otherwise I would have shared them. If I do have that information, I will share it with the Chamber as soon as possible. Then it will become clear whether each municipality has started an inventory and where it has led. If that is not enough, then the motion Koerhuis/Beckerman comes into view. Mrs Beckerman wondered about the presence of fire hydrants. She mentioned the example of Groningen and asked if I have that image available for the whole of the Netherlands. I didn't. It also makes sense, I think, that I don't have that image, also because it's a local responsibility. Of course, the municipality can decide that better than anyone. The Building Decision provides that buildings must have adequate extinguishing water supply. So it is really up to the municipality to assess that at local level. Municipalities will generally involve the fire department, I suppose, especially when it comes to the new construction of high-rise buildings. That should be sufficiently arranged. Democratic control takes place through the city council. We can say what the rules are. I know that it is discussed at regional level by the regional fire department and the municipality in consultation, but the responsibility really lies with the municipality. It must therefore ensure that the device is in sufficient places and meets the requirements. Mr Ronnes said that fire-risk buildings are still being built and asked for a response. The current Building Decision already makes demands. For the time being, it is assumed that there will be sufficient safeguards to prevent disasters such as those at the Grenfell Tower if they are properly observed. I have to wait for ATGB's advice and then I'm going to see what adjustment is needed. I am not in favour of more regulation, it should serve a purpose, but I do not hesitate to make any changes to the regulation if that is necessary. Mr Nijboer wondered if I could see the fire safety of all buildings and the different types of buildings. In general, I can say that buildings in the Netherlands are fireproof, but that does not mean everything in itself. On the basis of the number of victims killed as a result of house fires, we can show that we are fortunately on the right side in the Netherlands. Surveillance is important. Authorisation is one thing, but supervision and culture are at least as important. The municipalities have a role in this. As far as the facades are concerned, I have already indicated that I will inform you of this before the summer. Mr Smeulders wonders why we are currently not banning combustible building materials in a façade of a high building. Why are fire class A materials not made mandatory? The Building Decision sets fire safety requirements for facades as a whole and the requirement applies to the entire facade, and not only to individual parts. Eventually there could also be parts that are not in that fire class, but that are compensated by others. You can do that on the basis of the Building Decree. For high buildings in general, the façade must comply with fire class B. The market has the freedom to build the façade with different building materials, as long as the whole meets the fire class B. So it is assessed in full, not per material separately. Fire Class B is the toughest requirement in the Building Decision for new construction and building construction. The fire safety of a façade is of course only one of the elements, because there are also the solar panels in this area about the roofs and the literal running fire. In the Netherlands, most of the deaths are caused by fire in separate homes, with the fire propagation of the façade playing no part. This is without prejudice to the fact that I will examine the future advice of the ATGB as to whether there would also be a need to tighten up building regulations in this area. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the solar panels. Mr Ronnes and Mr Nijboer made comments on this, including the desire to be sustainable. Mr Kops mentioned this too, but from a slightly different background. It is noted that more and more solar panels are coming in to generate sustainable energy, but that this can also be associated with risks, especially when solar panels are poorly installed. What can we do about this now? When it comes to the fire safety of solar panels, I asked the standardisation institute NEN to consider whether the current NEN standards need to be adapted. I did so in response to a TNO report from 2019 in response to a large number of fires with solar panels. The Ministry of EZK will continue to consult with the industry on improved quality assurance of the installation of solar panels on the basis of the Van der Lee motion. Mr Ronnes mentioned the chimney fires and wondered what we could do about them. Recent parliamentary questions have been asked about this, in particular about the relationship between pellet stoves and chimney fires. You'll get the answers to those questions next week. I do not know whether Mr Ronnes had asked those questions. I don't think so. I think it was the colleague of the SP. Mr Ronnes asked me what I think about the fact that there is often a fire in work. You see that a lot. I call it the roofing. Something needs to be changed. He wondered: open fire close to roofing and insulation, shouldn't this be regulated? It is true that it often goes wrong there. Then there is mainly material damage. Construction regulations do not ensure the prevention of material damage. We also discussed this in the previous AO. Those building regulations are really designed to ensure the safety of people in buildings. That can be through prevention through materials, that can also be through good escape routes. It's usually a combination. When it comes to material damage, I see it mainly as a responsibility of builders to carry out their work in a fire-proof manner. Insurers could draw the attention of builders to this in order to prevent major damage. The industry organisation for roofers VEBIDAK has also drawn up guidelines for fire-proof working. Then I come to a number of policy issues. Mr Smeulders said that we think it should be safe here, but the decentralisation and powers that lie with municipalities may put these national interests at risk. That is a bit at the heart of the debate we have just had. This is an interplay between local authorities, especially municipalities and the Empire. By the way, it's not like the Empire is completely out of the way. Of course, we have various means. I have just mentioned the Koerhuis motion, but that is actually what intergovernmental supervision is hiding behind. Of course, we have the possibility of informing municipalities through the domes or directly. We also have the Environment Act, in which national interests can be protected. We are already talking about instruments that can be used for this purpose. It is, of course, still a bit of practice how this works in practice, but in the end it is not the case that there are no possibilities at all to intervene, even in the national interest. Mr Nijboer was wondering, but I have just discussed this point a little bit about whether the cabinet is aware of the risks of fire safety in relation to the weaker residents. He mentioned Rotterdam's example. I am aware of the increase in such reports. This was also mentioned during the AO of 20 November, for example. I'm currently investigating exactly what's going on, and I've been in contact with the fire department about this, among other things. As soon as I get that information, I'll inform the Chamber about it. Then to Mr Ronnes' point: building well and affordable. He's pointing out the task there is. Of course, we see this everywhere, in different variants: rising house prices and people who no longer have access to the housing market. How do we put that against the fact that we have to invest in safety? What does that do, especially if you go up high, with the affordability of homes? There is undoubtedly a correlation between that, but as I said earlier, I do not think that we can say about security: well, you know, let's make that property €5,000 cheaper; then we don't put a few things in it, and yes, then he is no longer safe. I do not think we should have that debate here, if I listen to you all, with the examples you have mentioned, but I cannot deny that some measures will lead to cost increases. On the other hand, if you take the right measures when building new buildings and use the right materials, this should not always lead to higher costs. I have just answered Mr Koerhuis' question about the Quality Assurance Act. He asked for it to be introduced as soon as possible. We are working hard on that right now. I assume that we will be able to introduce it by 1 January 2021. Then Mrs Van Eijs asked whether you could not add some sort of security dimension to the material passport. I am currently working on the preparation of the materials passport. I intend to inform the House of this before the summer. I will take this aspect into account. I cannot promise to what extent, but at least I will consider whether that can be included in the material passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u74	Mrs Van Eijs has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u75	Then perhaps the Minister will spare himself a motion. Would you also like to reconnect to the Chamber or, if so, how it turns out to be possible in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u76	Yes. I'd like to do that before the summer. This year, I'm just saying for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u78	I'm getting to my fourth block now. Mrs Beckerman had a question about the boilers. She wondered if the parts had been replaced with all the Nefit boilers. The NVWA states that Nefit has identified 95% of the boilers to which this applies. For all these boilers the necessary adjustments have been made or the boilers have been replaced. Despite all efforts, the last 5% has not been traced and is unlikely to succeed. Of course, there are all kinds of reasons for that. However, you can imagine that: there are records and those things were bought once, but people have moved and then it is no longer clear what the relationship between copper and kettle is. So this is the answer I can give. Mr Koerhuis wondered how many reports about CV boilers have been received by the NVWA. He asked me if I still think the 0800 number wouldn't be necessary. The NVWA does not register all questions on theme. In 2019 there are 70 questions or notifications registered by the NVWA about CV boilers. In the previous years there were only a few per year, so there really is a significant increase. The page about Ferroli on the NVWA website has been viewed by 5,500 visitors. That is the situation at the moment. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's question about the same boilers. Have they been replaced? No. The NVWA has instructed Ferroli to take three corrective actions. NVWA concludes that Ferroli CV boilers are safe when the boilers are maintained in accordance with the improved maintenance instruction. Mr Koerhuis also asked a question about the same boilers, but in relation to corporations. He asks if I can urge corporations to replace the boilers that are at the end of their lifespan. The NVWA has concluded that the boilers can be used safely, provided that the updated maintenance instructions are followed. It further recommends replacing boilers which are at the end of their lifespan, but which cannot be required to do so. Owners are and will remain responsible for the maintenance of their homes and for decisions on replacement of parts thereof. The same applies to housing corporations. The government can't sit in their seats. We heard that message again this week. By the way, there is no reason to treat housing corporations differently from other owners. So if landlords, both corporations and other landlords, would not perform the maintenance in the opinion of the tenants properly, those tenants can go to the rental committee and possibly go to court. The tenant organisation can also address this subject in consultation with the landlord. This is the right way to ensure that landlords fulfil their obligations. Moreover, there is no evidence that corporations do not respond adequately and would not pick up maintenance and replacement at the end of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u79	I think corporations still have a social responsibility. They are social institutions and they are supervised by the government. So I think we can ask for something extra for that. Doesn't the Minister share the view that we can do that with corporations and that we can ask them, following the NVWA report, to replace boilers that are over their lifetime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u80	Look, there is no obligation to replace them, and the government's supervision of the corporations that Mr Koerhuis is talking about is a different kind of supervision than the supervision of boilers. I think it's good to say that. Let me turn it around. Suppose there are indications that corporations would say: we do not take this seriously, do not think it is so important and leave those boilers standing for days. Then I cannot imagine, because maintenance costs are increasing, and when the risks increase, you have a responsibility as a corporation. Honestly, I can't imagine. If you have any of those signals, I'd like to recommend it. I'll act on that, too. This can only be done in the sense that I would point out to those concerned that something needs to be done about it. The first is that tenants who have knowledge that this does not happen in the right way, report this in the manner I have just indicated. In my administration, I have come to the end of the answer to the questions. If any questions haven't been answered, I'd be happy to hear them. I shall do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u81	That's up to the members. I've written down a few more questions about the fire department and the height of the fire trucks. Members will come back to that themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u82	We've been asking a lot of questions about the seniors. That's a group the fire department keeps calling attention to. That is something that has often been called attention to in the debates. I kind of miss that in the answer. Half of the victims of fire, deaths and injuries are exactly 65-plussers. They have to live longer at home and are more often in an unsafe situation. I asked a few more questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u83	So questions about the vulnerable groups and specifically the seniors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u84	I specifically dealt with that. I've been talking about the modifications to the entrance doors to the house, the escape routes and smoke control. I mentioned this very specifically, also in response to questions from Mr Ronnes and Mrs Beckerman in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u85	Yeah, I recognize that, too. You may have another question for the second term. I also see that all Members agree on the answer. I'm gonna see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Mrs Beckerman can start immediately. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is not quite the debate we had hoped for as a Chamber. I think that might be the conclusion. We're all here waiting for more fire safety. We are very concerned, but we have to conclude above all that real action is being pushed forward. I think I am going to ask for a general consultation through the committee for the third week of June. I've already checked to see if there's any support for that. The Minister has indicated that he can then become more concrete. I think it is very necessary for us to have a debate immediately. We are, of course, doing so through the committee. I have a motion of my own and I shall table another one with Mr Koerhuis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas everyone (including seniors and disabled persons) should be able to be warned and be able to flee if a fire breaks out;]] [[Whereas there must be sufficient extinguishing water in municipalities so that there is sufficient water to put out a fire quickly;]] [[calls on the Government to identify with relevant parties the situation regarding evacuation alarms and escape routes in buildings from 13 metres high and extinguishing water supply in municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman and Mr Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28325-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u87	Mr. Chairman. We had a motion on the inventory towards municipalities. That already sounded a bit in the debate. We find it really shocking that only one municipality has entered into conversation after a year and a half. However, we are not going to vote on this motion because the Minister has made some promises. But it's got to happen now. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u88	Thank you. Mrs Van Eijs also needs a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u89	Mr. Chairman. It is a very important subject, but I do not think it is the most exciting debate. As you can conclude, we are all for more fire safety and against fire in these kinds of buildings. I think we were also very united about the inventory. I am pleased that the Minister has promised that he will address the municipalities. I am also pleased that he is going to address the municipalities to the concerns the fire department has about high-rise construction. It is very important that the new high-rise building really becomes safe. I hope the municipalities take this seriously. Unfortunately, I have seen earlier in the stainless steel swimming pools that this was not taken seriously. I hope it's gonna be different this time. I am very pleased that the Minister has made a commitment to include safety and fire safety in the materials passport. As a result, the motion I had written has become superfluous, but of course that is not an end in itself either. I therefore hope that we will soon see how safety will return in the materials passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u90	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mr. Ronnes. It also needs a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u91	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, before the summer, we will be together again in this composition to discuss the results of the study and whether this could lead to legislative changes. In his response to flammable insulation and working with open fire, I think the Minister stepped over my point a little quickly. I said that in our neighbouring countries, it's strictly forbidden to do this. So the question is whether you should not look at why we do not, when the countries around us do. Can the Minister take another comparative look at that? My final point concerns the solar panels. The Minister said that there was a question regarding the NEN standards based on TNO's research from 2019. On the basis of these results, I would like the Minister to consult with the existing quality labels and insurers. I have a motion on that. I want this all the more because we see that rules are being dealt with differently in neighbouring countries that are being applied to solar panels and to the installation. We have heard, for example, that Belgium would make more demands than the Netherlands would on installation. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of solar panels on roofs in the Netherlands is high and will increase significantly;]] [[Whereas such solar panels are sometimes poorly installed and therefore present an increased risk of fire safety and damage;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands Standardisation Institute NEN will soon issue an opinion on the fire safety of solar panels;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of NEN's opinion, to act in consultation with existing quality labels and insurers with a view to increasing the quality of the installation of solar panels to a fire-resistant level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28325-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u93	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Koerhuis. He also wants to say something in second term, and I simply believe he has another motion in his hands. Just one? Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u94	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a safe house is important for both homeowners and tenants;]] [[Whereas research carried out by Kassa shows that 150,000 dangerous central heating boilers are in use;]] [[Whereas, according to NVWA, a large proportion of these boilers are in need of replacement in any case;]] [[Whereas corporations holding these boilers have now informed their tenants;]] [[calls on the Government to ask corporations to replace the boilers which have been used over their technical lifespan and to make the necessary adjustments to the other boilers;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before the summer of the progress of the replacement and necessary adjustment of boilers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28325-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u95	We are tabling this motion because the Minister indicated that he does not yet have the image that corporations are not working with the boilers. I would suggest to the Minister that he take a look at some of the broadcasts from Kassa, because on that basis we have really got a different picture. We also had another motion in preparation. In writing, it was no longer necessary with the Minister's promise. We will indeed apply for an AO for the third week of June. Then the summer has just begun. We hope to have information about both the inventory of the facades and the central heating boilers. We shall then continue to debate this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u96	Thank you. Mr Smeulders is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in second term. The other colleagues have waived their second term and have already left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I think that as a Chamber we are very much in agreement on this issue. We shouldn't make things any more complicated than it is. We actually had a motion on making a protocol for municipalities compulsory by now. On the basis of the Minister's answers, we choose not to submit them yet, but to see what will happen in the coming months. There is one point that we think is important to make today. It's about fire-threatening material. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United Kingdom prohibited combustible materials in the façade which caused the fire in London soon after the fire;]] [[Whereas these combustible materials in the façade are still permitted in the Netherlands;]] [[believes that safety should also be at the forefront in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Building Decision in such a way that combustible materials in the façade of high-rise buildings are no longer allowed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28325-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u98	I sincerely hope that we will never again see such a terrible fire as in London, but if it does happen in the Netherlands, then I think that we cannot explain it as a government if we have not intervened and have still allowed those materials. Hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u99	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes to give the Minister the opportunity to give an appreciation to the motions and to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u100	Given the late hour, I'll just hammer as soon as the minister's ready to answer the Chamber. I see all the coworkers around the neighborhood. While I'm talking slowly, I can see them coming in slowly but surely. I am looking at the Minister and I am happy to give him the opportunity to answer the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u101	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Members for the second term. Mr Smeulders was right to say that we in the Chamber are broadly in agreement. I would like to join in this in terms of good dualism by saying that I have actually heard very few things that I do not agree with, namely a kind of urge to do the right thing but, at the same time, with respect for the responsibilities that lie in various places. The fact that the debate is being held here, with the look that goes with it and the letters I have promised to send to municipalities, hopefully contributes to the security awareness in those places where it is not yet sufficiently present, and ensure that, at the time of the ATGB investigation, we can discuss this with each other in the Chamber as soon as possible. Then I'll get to the motions. In the Beckerman/Koerhuis motion in part No. 207 calls on the Government to identify with relevant parties the situation regarding evacuation alarms and escape routes in buildings from 13 metres high and extinguishing water supply in municipalities. I would like to consult with municipalities to see whether this is useful and then whether it should be further mapped out, but I would like to include this in the opinions that will undoubtedly come from the ATGB. We will have it next month, so my request to the authors is to hold this motion. Then we have the overall overview and we can make that assessment. In the Ronnes motion in part No. 208 invites the Government, on the basis of the NEN's opinion, to consult with existing quality labels and insurers with a view to increasing the quality of the installation of solar panels to a fire-proof level. That's basically policy support. EZK's working on that, too. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on this point. Then the motion to part No. 209 by Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Beckerman, in which the government is asked 'to ask companies to replace the boilers which have been used for technical life and to inform the Chamber before the summer of the progress of the replacement and necessary adjustment of the boilers'. I have already indicated that I see a different responsibility there. So I'm going to have to discourage that motion. I can, however, point out to Mr Koerhuis that I will also bring the thrust of the motion to the attention of Aedes, the dome of housing corporations. I like her in that sense, but I must discourage her for reasons of responsibilities. So if I can fill it out in such a way that I send the thrust of the motion in the letter to Aedes, then I hope that Mr Koerhuis can also support it. If it isn't, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u102	I think that's pretty much what we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u103	Oh, well, nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u104	We ask the Minister to send it to Aedes. So I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u105	You just want an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u106	Yes. I find it a little strange that the motion would then be discouraged. That sounds almost like taking over or judging Chamber, if the Minister wants the Chamber to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u107	Well, it says: "Asks corporations to ask them to replace the boilers that are technically useful and to make the necessary adjustments to other boilers." It's more in the formal sense that from my position, I'm not gonna ask corporations to do anything. I would like to point them out on this point of the debate. I think it is an important subject, but I am particularly concerned with the second operative part which I'must ask them to replace boilers'. They have to make the necessary adjustments, and I'm assuming that's what happened. I have not seen that broadcast from Kassa, as I say to Mr Koerhuis, but I am happy to convey that signal to Aedes. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 210 by Mrs... No, I'm sorry, Mr Smeulders. It is still Mr. Smeulders; Mrs. Van Eijs had not tabled a motion. "Asks the government to amend the Building Decision in such a way that flammable materials in the façade of high-rise buildings are no longer permitted." This follows on from Mr Ronnes' question. I would have expected Mr Ronnes' name to be included in this motion, but that is not the case. He had asked to map that internationally. That's not part of the ATGB investigation, but I'm willing to look internationally as well. I do need time for that, so I am trying to do so for the debate you are planning in June. I would ask Mr Smeulders to hold that motion. Why? This may well be the result of the advice of the ATGB, but I'm not sure. I also think it is a nice motion in itself, but in the context of proportionality and because I want to do justice to the committee that comes up with opinions, I do not think it is appropriate to anticipate one aspect. So it is not that I am not sympathetic to the motion, but why not take it into account in the debate that is still going to take place in full?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u108	So, in concrete terms, you're asking for the motion to be held because otherwise you'll have to dissuade her? Mr. Smeulders, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u109	Let us indeed keep her in the spirit of the debate. I'm glad the Minister is sympathetic to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u110	At the request of Mr Smeulders, I propose his motion (28325, No. 210). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u111	Mrs Beckerman is probably going to say if she is going to make the motion in part No. 207 is holding on, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u112	Yeah, I think that's a little crazy. Because the Minister started by saying, "God, the Chamber is so united that we have to give priority to it, that we have to speed up fire safety. Next, almost all motions are asked to hold them for a while. That doesn't quite fit in with the line of speed and speed making. So we're going to have the motion in part no. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u113	Okay. The Minister's opinion is then: dissuade. At the motion in part No. 209 is still a little unclear to me with what appreciation the Chamber is going to go with. Has she been dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u114	I did not advise her, but it is, of course, up to the Chamber itself to rule on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u115	Yeah, or you can change the motion and then there's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u116	Then my question is: how to change? 'Cause I understand the minister's gonna run her. Then how does he see the change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u117	I'll control myself to fill that out, because the minister is the one who's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u118	I can amend motions from this place, but that seems a little... That is really up to Mr Koerhuis himself. In view of the scope of the motion, I would like to 'point out and point out', but in view of the earlier debate on the division of responsibility, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u119	Mr. Koerhuis has heard how you feel about that. If he amends the motion, we'll face it. If not, the appreciation is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-31.u120	The votes following this debate are next Tuesday.
