ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	We have planned a short debate today, which was not on the agenda but which, I understand, had to be today. This means that we shall now proceed to a brief debate on the amendment of the Tax Plan 2021 (35659). Mr Nijboer is already there, I see. I now give him the floor on behalf of the PvdA. And of course I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, whom I had already greeted, but not officially.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a change to the Tax Plan and one of the cornerstones of this cabinet's Tax Plan, the BIK. There was a lot of discussion about it, it wasn't part of the Tax Plan at first either, because we didn't get the properly worked out proposal until October. There has been a lot of debate about that. Scientists, the CPB, the Council of State, actually anyone who has any sense, says "don't spend that 4 billion like that, there are much better ways to boost investment and employment," but it had to and it would be given as a gift to VNO-NCW. That bill was made with steam and boiling water, and that is something that can be ignored. It was too late, and now we already have the first amendment to that law, because European law is raging on all sides. With this bill, which we received at the end of last week, 800 million may be postponed. That must and will also remain within that BIK, which already does not work. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Secretary of State once more: how on earth is it possible that there will be another amendment of that law in a month's time? Does he really think this is going well in the implementation? What kind of entrepreneur can make a decent investment decision if he doesn't even know what discount he gets? When will we be clear about this European legal side of the matter? I also find it rather difficult in Parliament that one of the most important, most important measures in the Tax Plan was not even included in the Tax Plan and that there will then be a change, with Parliament as co-legislator barely having a decent opportunity to give a good opinion on it. We were allowed to do that in one weekend. We were delayed from 09.00 a.m. Monday morning until 11.00 a.m. Monday morning to deliver our input. Last night we spoke with two opposition parties, Mr Snels van GroenLinks, and three coalition parties, about a change of 800 million. That's not a do. Normally we can debate here endlessly about 10 million, 20 million, and see exactly what happens with it. So I think it is really inappropriate legislation. There's gonna be chunks of it. Does the Secretary of State foresee that, too? Does he really think that it has all been repaired with this action, that it will be good in the implementation, that European law will be good and that he should not come back here again? I also find it unprecedented that we have a measure which we do not know on 1 January as to which rates are actually involved. That's not about small beer; it's 2 billion. The Secretary of State then says that the articles say that if it becomes one side, it is the tariff and if it becomes the other side of European law, it is the other. But then you don't fix them. That's unbelievable. It would be a good thing if we didn't know what the VAT rate would be next year or the rate of income tax. It's now two and a half weeks before January 1st. Isn't that inappropriate legislation? I'm asking the Secretary of State if these laws, which he himself deliberately linked to the Tax Plan... could have been a loose law. Then the law could have been better thought out and could have been filed separately. I ask the Secretary of State not to offer this to the Chamber anymore, as a tying. This year, after the Hoekstra motion, the First Chamber also adopted the Sent motion on this: do not do that again. Why did the Secretary of State choose to do that? Why would he charge the entire Tax Plan with such an abomination of a measure? Mr President, I will conclude. We often say that the First Chamber must assess the quality of legislation. That is true, of course, but also the Lower House has a separate task. If legislation goes rogue on all sides, if the content is not achieved, if there is a huge budget involved, if implementation is rattled, if European law is not correct and if the legislative process is poor, we can only make one judgment. That is to reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead. Oh, an electric...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	I got a shock! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State knows the position of GroenLinks when it comes to the BIK. GroenLinks was against the BIK, GroenLinks is against the BIK and GroenLinks will remain against the BIK in the future. In fact, I can also broadly agree with Mr Nijboer's contribution. Both in terms of content and process, this does not deserve, to say the least, a beauty prize. This is, certainly as rapporteur, an insight into quality, where Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act is really very important, a way of deciding a lot of public money that should not really go this way. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to come to a specific point. In yesterday's legislative consultation, the Secretary of State made a commitment that, should there be a negative opinion from Brussels on joining the tax unit, he would first send a letter to the Chamber and not automatically make a royal decision to raise the rates in the IJK. I welcome that, because that means that the Chamber can have another debate on what should be done in that case. I am not asking for this for nothing, of course, because it bothers me in the novelle that if the European Commission decides negatively, the increase in rates and the reduction rates will automatically take place. As Mr Nijboer said, this is about 800 million in two years and 400 years a year. This is not the way in which we have to take decisions on so much public money, even under Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. My question to the Secretary of State is, therefore, not only to send a letter explaining the decision of the European Commission, but also to give the Chamber a real opportunity to re-decide on the 400 million. In the end, as the Compatibility Act says, the question is what the purpose, effectiveness and efficiency are. Alternatives should also be identified. I would also like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. I'm considering a second-term motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66. Did I understand from this that you also want a second term? Some people do, I see. Okay. Mr Van Weyenberg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We discussed a novelle in the legislative consultation yesterday because the Secretary of State says that he wants to bring one piece of this bill into effect by royal decree and that he wants to review it in Brussels by notifying it. It is unfortunate that we still have to do so at this stage, but given the information and opinion of the Secretary of State, I think it is wise that he should now choose this route of the novelle and not take any legal risks in it. As far as the measure itself is concerned, I have already said that I consider it justifiable as a crisis measure. He is temporary and two thirds are for the benefit of SMEs, including by an amendment by Mrs Lodders, and also by many colleagues. I had two more concerns of my own. One touches a little on the point where Mr Snels was given a commitment yesterday, namely: let us be able to speak again, should bad news come from Brussels. The second was this: the point of contact where this can be requested will open on 1 September, but this can only be done if it is clear from Brussels before 1 February. I understand the Secretary of State is hopeful about that. However, I asked to keep us informed during January so that we could see what that means for the implementation, if there is no hope of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The PVV is not in favour of the BIK. We weren't, and we still aren't. It is a poorly drafted law, which has gone through it too quickly, against the advice of the State Council and most of the political groups in it. Anyway, this novel makes the law a little less bad, so we're gonna support it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mr. Edgar Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we took a long time for a legislative consultation, in which, of course, as I do often, I used most of my speaking time, with the aim of examining this novel in detail with regard to the substantive questions. That's how we do it, but we were done after an hour. I am pleased that the government is adding an extra check to the European Commission to ensure that we do not get a dramatic leak because there is a problem with fiscal unity. I had argued in favour of this before, and it is good that it is now happening in this way. Second, I would have expressed my concerns about the problems you might have if you alienated it too quickly. If you get a cure and you get a BIK that's a grant on it, and if you sell that two days later to a subsidiary of your own company in another European country, there has to be a disinvestment reserve on it as far as we're concerned. That disinvestment reserve is not in the law as such, but the Secretary of State has promised that you must hold it for at least a year, with a counter-proof. For example, if you threaten to go bankrupt and sell money, you don't have to pay it back. It seems to us to be an appropriate solution to this in the manual. We look forward to this guide before the end of January, also in order to give legal certainty to entrepreneurs. We also look forward with interest to the European Commission's letter at the end of January on the state of play of this notification and whether that is good or not. It's very important to know that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mr President. We have discussed the BIK in detail during the treatment of the Tax Plan. For the VVD this is an important crisis measure; a measure to encourage investment, to stimulate investment, especially at this time. Now the Secretary of State has sent a novelle. We had a debate on this last night. I have indicated that we hope for clarity as soon as possible. This is important for our business and for those SMEs who want to make investments. I hope the Secretary of State can please us very quickly with good news. I have every confidence that he will do so in Brussels. Last night I expressed my concerns about communication with entrepreneurs. The answer I have received is that there will really be targeted communication. That's very important. I do not need to repeat the question of a commitment here. I'm assuming you're okay. Thank you for your time and for your flexibility. That can be said at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	That's very sweet. Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I note that the Secretary of State needs a one-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	I see the Secretary of State is back in. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr President. For my part, too, thank you very much for the flexibility that this debate could take place quickly. I would like to pass on a few things: Mr Nijboer's fundamental point about the law, a few points by Mr Snels and then a few smaller things. First of all, the fundamental point. I have promised earlier in this Chamber I have to catch my breath, because I have been running as well as in the First Chamber, that I will write a letter at the beginning of the year, in which I will discuss a better distribution of the plans around the Tax Plan for a forthcoming cabinet. I explained that in the First Chamber during the week when I was there for the treatment of the Tax Plan, and in response to Mrs Sent's question at an earlier stage in the General Financial Reviews. I'm gonna try and find a solution to that. One of the solutions is that we come to the Chamber earlier with structural tax proposals. Then the second point: what does the BIK mean? It's starting to be a bit of a repetition, but the BIK aims to stimulate investment in the Netherlands. This novelle tries to avoid a possible problem, namely that these investments do not take place in the Netherlands but abroad, and that the tax unit does not keep European law, which causes a leak of Dutch tax money. That was never meant to happen. So I think that novelle contributes to the quality of the bill. Mr Mulder has already indicated this. What you think of the basic quality, let me put it in the middle, but the contribution to the quality of the bill is in any case positive. Mr Snels asked if I could come up with a letter. We talked about that extensively last night. I think it is really wise that I should send a letter after the process in Brussels has been completed. Even if the process has gone positively, it might be wise to report exactly how it went. There is, of course, a novelle with the striking of a royal decree.... I said it last night in a fork: whether the fiscal unit is allowed and then it just comes in, or it can't and then the percentages go up. But I indicated I wanted to send a letter. It is then up to the Chamber to debate this with me if it so wishes. Of course, I always come when the Chamber calls. That's the rules. Mr Van Weyenberg asked for clarity on 1 February. That is the aim. I said the same thing last night. If we do not achieve that, if we really go well over 1 February and it is going to lead to implementation problems, then I will send another letter to that effect. Mr Omtzigt pointed out once again how this all happened: criticism and comments from the NOB and from other quarters about the fiscal unit. Last night, at the legislative consultation, I admitted that it took some time until we came to the conclusion that we should notify in Brussels in order to avoid the risk of leakage. I'd have preferred to have done that before, but that's how it went. The second thing Mr Omtzigt said was about the guideline in which we are going to include in what way we are going to prevent investment credits from being resold quickly, rather than the real disinvestment scheme. Last night I promised that I would indeed come forward with a letter in January. Maybe a little more. Mr Nijboer just said in his speech that tariffs are not clear, but I am going to fight that one more time. The rates are clear. There can only be a situation where the tax unit is not allowed, and then the rates become higher. That is the uncertainty, but it is an uncertainty in the right direction, let me just say. Mr President, that was my contribution to this deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	One more question about this. The rates have now been clarified; they are contained in that article. If the State Secretary gets his way with European law, it's one rate, and if he doesn't get his way, it's the other rate. So that's where it's clear. My question was when has it happened before in history that entrepreneurs or ordinary people do not know what tax rates they have two weeks before 1 January. That is, of course, my point. What these tariffs then become, that is proposed here. It's about 400 million. And you don't know yet whether or not the Secretary of State will be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	Stay here... If I have the floor, at least. Sorry, I was a little too eager.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	Yes, of course, go ahead. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	There is still a misunderstanding between Mr Nijboer and me. The rates on 1 January are clear. They're already in the law. The only thing that can happen, I repeat: what can happen if the fiscal unit is not allowed, is that the rates increase retroactively as of 1 January. That's retroactive. That's what can happen. So, no, it's not true that we wouldn't set a rate here unprecedented. The rates have been set. The novelle merely says that either the tax unit enters, and then the rates will remain the same as the tax unit does not enter and is not allowed, and then there will be a letter to your Chamber and is basically the next step that the rates will go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	So this is precisely the illustration of the messy legislation. Normally you figure this out in advance and then you just know what the rates are. But now the Secretary of State says: this is the minimum rate, but if European law runs a little differently, you will get a bigger discount. I don't like that legislation. I think that that should simply be done and that it should be clear to everyone what the tax rates are for next year, at least two or three weeks before 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	But that's what they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Yes, Mr Snels, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law provides that, if there is a negative opinion from Europe on the affiliation to the tax unit, a decision may be taken by royal decree to increase the percentages for the BIK;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State has promised that in this case a letter will first be sent to the Chamber to enable the Chamber to reach an opinion on what should be done in that case;]] [[Considering that the decision-making process involves a substantial amount of around EUR 400 million;]] [[calls on the Cabinet at that time, under the legal obligation of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, to review whether any use of EUR 400 million other than the increase in the BIK rates is socially more effective, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35659-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I assume, of course, that the Secretary of State's "judgement chamber" will be used, but in fact it is an unnecessary motion, because this motion comes from the Compatibility Act. In the chamber next to the Secretary of State is the guardian of the Compatibility Act. In the case of 400 million, it is perfectly logical that you then reconsider and argue from Article 3.1 whether this is the most efficient and effective way to spend public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	Thank you, Mr. Quick. If you hand over the motion, it'll get a number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	May I speak with my officials for one minute on the content of this motion? Then I'll be able to pass judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yeah, that's good. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. It will be disappointing for Mr Snels, because I am going to discourage this motion. The decision on the spending of the 400 million he is talking about has been part of the decision-making process on the BIK. It has already been decided. The amount continues to be used for the same purpose. So I do not see why Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act would oblige us to reconsider that. This is the unfriendly side of my answer. Of course, I also have a more friendly side, as Mr Snels knows very well. I would like to write something about this in the letter. Otherwise, the letter won't make much sense. Of course, I am going to write what happened in Europe and I would like to add the sentence that I am prepared to come to the Chamber for a debate. Then Mr Snels may table any motion and amendment he wishes. However, I cannot now give this motion a ruling on Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	Then we're done with the bill. We shall vote in ten minutes on the motion on item No. 7.
