ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	The debate on the citizens' initiative is now on. I am priceless (35484), no. 1). On 16 April 2019, the Exxpose Foundation offered more than 40,000 signatures in support of its citizens' initiative on criminalising sex buying. In April last year, the Chamber decided on the admissibility of the proposal. On 4 July, the Justice and Security Committee decided to notify the initiative for plenary consideration. I am very pleased that we will be able to discuss the citizens' initiative in plenary in this Chamber so soon after the summer recess and to have the debate on it. It is the 15th citizens' initiative that has been discussed by the Lower House in plenary since the introduction of this instrument in 2006 and the third citizens' initiative of the current Chamber. Today, the initiators are here in the Chamber, in the President's Lodge, to explain the citizens' initiative. Some of them are in the bleachers, I understand. You, too, are very welcome. Sara Wijnja, Willemijn de Jong and Natasja Bos are in the chair. Once again, welcome. Also a warm welcome to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and all those who follow this debate through the livestream. As part of a citizens' initiative, the initiator is given the floor first. That is Mrs Bos in this case. I'd like to ask the Keeper of Chambers to escort you to the office. Then you have four minutes, well, five minutes to explain your initiative. Of course, it is well known to Members of Parliament, but I say it again: Mrs Bos must not be interrupted. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand many of you have had a short night. I'm honored to have you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	But we all look fresh and fruity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Sure, sure. My name is Natasha Bos. I am chairman of Exxpose and initiator of the citizens' initiative I am priceless. As I said, I am greatly honored to be standing here in front of you and to urge you to criminalize the purchase of sex. We, Exxpose, are a movement of young people who have seen the raw reality of prostitution and can no longer remain silent about it. I myself often visited youth care institutions during my research. I met a girl there, Laura. She was often sexually abused and severely traumatized. She was there because she was locked up for her own safety. Because she had come into contact with loverboys. Until she was 18, we did everything we could to protect her from these pimps, but after 18, she was legally behind a window. You know that this is not just one story from one woman, but that it is about the majority of the people in prostitution. The vast majority comes from a fragile situation. For example, 63% of women in prostitution indicate that they were sexually abused in their youth. What turns my stomach is that we have created a legal market around these women. 21 years ago, the Netherlands started regulating prostitution, including to address the abuses. But in the meantime, it has been proven numerous times that this has not been done. We have our hands full fighting the peripheral phenomena, but this makes us forget to look at the core of the problems. Prostitution is a form of violence. Research shows that, regardless of where prostitution takes place, people in prostitution suffer so much damage that they can develop a post-traumatic stress disorder. Buying sex causes severe trauma. Prostitution is unequal. It is no secret to you all that especially men with power and money buy off the consent of mainly women coming from minority groups. All forms of inequality come together: inequality of power, economic inequality and gender inequality. Maybe you're thinking, but it can still be a choice of your own? Then let me ask you honestly: who does it belong to? Is it more important to you that one person says "I do this voluntarily" or is it about that very large group that is in an exploitation situation? Or is there something else going on? Do we think it's more important that men in the Netherlands can buy sex? Do we think their choice is more important? Because that's why prostitution can exist. Prostitution can exist because people buy sex. It's time we moved the burden of prostitution. It's time we made sex buyers responsible for the consequences of buying sex. Addressing the demand for prostitution will reduce the market for prostitution and trafficking in human beings, and that is exactly what we have committed ourselves to in international treaties. Take the UN Women's Convention. The European Commission indicates that the best way to reduce the market is to discourage the sex buyer. In Sweden, they made buying sex a criminal offence 21 or 20 years ago. By making sex buying illegal, by not penalising women in prostitution but by offering them help and by launching awareness campaigns, the market has been successfully reduced. This means that fewer people end up in prostitution and fewer people end up in the cycle of violence that causes prostitution. This means that there are fewer sex buyers and fewer human trafficking, and that also means that women in prostitution are protected by policy. It is true that this policy puts women in an equal position. The sex buyer's already in jail. It is therefore significant that no woman has been murdered by a sex buyer in Sweden since the introduction of the law. Compare these numbers with the numbers in the Netherlands, Germany or New Zealand. You are dealing here with the consequences of the previous generation's policy. There's nothing we can do about that anymore, but the next move is really up to you. 50,000 Dutch people ask you for a decent policy, to work on a society in which no one has to go into an unequal situation and in which no one is doomed to the web of commercial sexual exploitation. The best approach against modern slavery in the sex industry is to criminalize the buying of sex. Mr. Chairman. After Sweden, Norway, Ireland, France and Israel were followed with the same success. I ask you: is it now time for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you very much for your explanation, but especially for the fact that you are really conveying it from your heart. You almost didn't look into your papers, so you really handed it over with emotion. Thank you for that. It is now up to the Members of Parliament to find something of that. Thank you very much for this initiative and very well done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yeah, that's okay. You can't do that to MPs, but you can do that to civilians. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to Natasha, Sara, Willemijn and everyone from Exxpose who is here today to present this citizens' initiative. Thank you for having managed to get this on the Chamber's agenda. It's a historic moment. Mr. Chairman. How do you give words to a phenomenon that is the embodiment of injustice, of inequality and of a dark world, but which is constantly well talked about in our country? That's hard to accept. I'm thinking of the women I met, for example during a field trip a few months ago with aid workers at a so-called private house. It has a living room that looks seemingly cozy, with six young girls, a manager and an operator. Every time the bell rings, there was a man at the door. Then all those girls got up, and they had to show themselves to him. One was chosen, the rest came back into the room. That's how it went over and over. That bell kept ringing. One of them was just 20. She had a man's name tattooed on her upper body. Human trafficking detectives told me that this is how human traffickers brand their wives. She told me she was in debt and a director. She'd been in the business for three years, so she'd been underage. She worked in that house for seven days that week. A girl who was just 18, sitting there in a corner, paying close attention to every question I asked, looking at her operator, who then threw her a bag of a very luxurious brand: "Look, this one is for you; that's what you like, isn't it?'. Mr. Chairman. I cannot imagine with the best will of the world how the maintenance of this system strengthens the position of women and promotes equality between men and women. Here, at the heart of the matter, is the imbalance of power, which has just been brought forward by Natasha. It is about human rights, it is about human dignity, it is about children's rights, it is about women from low-wage countries and it is about vulnerable Dutch girls. Twenty years ago, the brothel ban was lifted in the Netherlands. We've been 20 years and the targets don't seem to have been achieved. The WODC is showing that, too. It is estimated that there are 3,000 Dutch victims of sexual exploitation every year, including 1,300 minors, according to the National Rapporteur. Research by PROUD and Soa Aids Netherlands showed that 90% of the prostitutes are involved in violence. Women have benefited very little from this system. To see who's going to benefit, we have to follow the money. Those are the whorehouse owners, the operators, the pimps. Trafficking in human beings has remained. The spirit of time also puts our noses on the facts. The MeToo movement brought to the surface that society is done with women being seen as objects of lust and that we don't think it's normal for men to have sex. In addition, countries such as Norway, Sweden, France, Iceland and Canada have all banned the purchase of sex in the last 20 years. International obligations exist under international conventions. Member States must take measures to stop prostitution of women and trafficking in women. If the Netherlands were asked what we have done about it, reference was made to the Meld Crime Anonymous campaign, where buyers of sex notifications could make. We really need to get rid of the idea that sex buyers are important sources of reporting. They contribute precisely to the preservation of the phenomenon. There really is a demand side that sustains supply. The Palermo Protocol on cross-border crime says that we must take measures to discourage the demand for all forms of exploitation. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the Netherlands has done to meet these international obligations, to discourage the buying of sex and to remove the breeding ground for sexual exploitation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to conduct an independent comparative study on the impact of laws and regulations on dealing with trafficking in human beings on the number of victims of trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	There's a kid in the public gallery who probably has an opinion on what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	I forgot to ask the Secretary of State. This clearly shows that the Christian Union supports the citizens' initiative that has been laid down here. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to all the proposals they have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	My first question was answered: Mr Van der Graaf wants to introduce this Nordic model in the Netherlands. I have a follow-up question to ask. In February/March, when the corona crisis hit hard in the Netherlands, we stood side by side to ask the cabinet if sex workers could also be covered by thezzp support measures. We saw how difficult that is, because they cannot register with the Chamber of Commerce without a licence, for example. What I am so afraid of is that if we push these sex workers further into illegality, their rights will be further undermined and they will become even more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	My question to Mrs Van der Graaf is: how does she see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	We've seen those problems in the corona crisis, but I think if we really... One of the goals of lifting the brothel ban in the Netherlands was to distinguish between legal prostitution and criminal prostitution. We see that making that distinction has not brought the solution. Even now there is illegal prostitution. In fact, it's growing. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings also points out this. I therefore believe that this is not the way to offer these women the best protection and improve their legal position. I think we should work on real human rights. I think we really need to work on the real human right not to be sold for money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	I agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that we are far from there with the lifting of the ban on brotheling. I will deal with this later in my own speech, but my question to Mrs Van der Graaf is: why is she for the Swedish version, but not for the New Zealand model, for example? In this model, sex workers have more rights and can claim assistance and support more easily than here at this time of corona crisis. Why does she choose the Swedish route and not, for example, the New Zealand route?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	What I like about Sweden's model is that they have really chosen to tackle the inequality that exists between men and women, between the buyer of sex, who is still a man of average age with a fixed relationship, a modal income and education, and the woman, who often ends up underage in prostitution, often has a background in which there were no or little income, the language does not speak and is low-educated and therefore sometimes in a disadvantaged position. This inequality is addressed at its core. It is chosen not to criminalize and criminalize these women, but to buy sex. The man in that comfortable position is held responsible for the abuses that are taking place. That appeals to me. I also think that's a better approach than decriminalizing pimps and sex bosses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	We have seen in the Netherlands that that does not work and we see that in New Zealand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	Madam President. I would like to begin by bowing to Mrs Natasja Bos and the other people of Exxpose, such as Sara and Willemijn, for the very important and beautiful initiative they have taken to say to this House: please think about how we deal with prostitution in the Netherlands. Know what reality is behind that. I am very pleased that I have had the opportunity to discuss the lifting of the ban on brotheling in this Chamber for some 20 years. I said on behalf of the SGP Group that sex is about love and is not a commodity because it affects human dignity. That's how I still feel about it. Then you can have a very ideological debate. Others said: we think more liberally; it is a free choice. But in the years that followed, also through all these debates and now through this citizens' initiative, we have looked into the world behind this. Also with the work visits, with the conversations, with the contacts and also with what I read and hear now, you get more and more on the retina: let's not fool each other; it's a world full of vulnerable people who often end up in that prostitution because of a build-up of problems and still find it extremely difficult. There is hardly anyone to be found who says to his daughter in the vocational guidance: "Wouldn't prostitution be something for you? That's a nice job you can make some money from." Then we all say, "No, don't do that." That double morality that's in here, exploiting those vulnerable people and all the excuses that we end up using because we think that men have the right to pay for their lusts, that's basically what it's all about. Mr. Chairman. In all these ideological debates, those reports wars from the past, and also the discussion on the evaluation, it has been shown time and time again that the lifting of the ban on brotheling has in fact become a failure. This trafficking in human beings has not been dealt with at all and it has not been the neck blow. This trafficking in human beings is sometimes reinforced by the fact that they can say: it is legal in the Netherlands. Let us no longer look away, as with slavery, which has been spoken of so glowfully before here in this Chamber. It's easy to talk about the past and how bad it all was. No, this is about what's happening now. This is pure slavery, as is evident from the stories of those vulnerable women, who are sometimes recruited abroad. We can't look away from this anymore. Therefore, let those personal stories, which are so broad, be given the opportunity today to say as a Chamber on this matter. I would like to table a motion later that we embrace this citizens' initiative and that we ask the Secretary of State to take initiatives as soon as possible to introduce that model, banning the purchase of sex in the Netherlands, legally. I hope that will happen, of course, but I have also become a little realistic in those 20 years. This is gonna take some time. In any case, I notice that people from a new generation can often look at this in a fresher way. So there is hope for the future, but if it does not succeed today, can you at least say that what was already in the government agreement a few years ago on how to deal with the abuses of prostitution, the ban on pimping, the age limit and the other fine points that were mentioned then are now urgently reaching the finish line? Because the plans and the laws on them have been there since 2019. How is it that all kinds of things have changed, but that's not gonna get us anywhere? Now, please, let that come to the Chamber soon, to be dealt with. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Van der Staaij made a glowing speech on this subject. I understand that very well. In the end, we all want a world without human trafficking and without abuses. But I do object to two sentences from Mr Van der Staaij's speech. I think he meant to say that other parties use excuses because they think men have the right to buy sex. I don't think that's the issue. I think there are several parties here - I have just heard an interruption from GroenLinks, and I think other parties are going to point out that... But I will speak for myself. I see, for example, the risk that if you embrace the citizens' initiative, I will have a lot of beauty for it, and I will be expressing it later too, and that this will not help the vulnerable women in a marginal position. We differ from understanding what the effect of a ban on prostitution could be. But don't go telling other parties that they're using excuses because they think men have the right to buy sex. That is not the case. It is an assessment of the impact of policies. It may be different from that of the other party. We all want a world without human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	I believe that, too, when you say: a world without human trafficking, that is what we all want. I don't want to question anyone's integrity. But I'll be more specific about what I meant to say. They are all rationalizations, fine arguments, but in my opinion the forces behind them are the forces I have appointed. But I recognize that everyone here is trying to take their stand in a more honest way. And I am glad that the SP is also involved in this debate, because 20 years ago, when it came to lifting the ban on brotheling, I was disappointed that the SP was not present. Especially the SP knows that these beautiful stories, that myth of the strong man who will choose, often lead to marginalization of the weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	Twenty years ago, indeed, Mr. Van der Staaij. I took part in that debate at the time. Mr Jan de Wit has also worked for this. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bolkestein on behalf of the VVD. It is Mr Bolkestein's maiden speech, on a very interesting subject. As usual in this house, a maiden speech does not interrupt the MP. So you can say anything. And then it's done. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. Yes, Chairman, this is indeed my maiden speech. I understand it's also good practice to say something about yourself at such a maiden speech. So I'll do that briefly. Then, of course, I will turn to my response to the citizens' initiative. Let me say something about myself. My political interest began in high school. It was woken up by my history teacher, Bonno van Dijk. Somehow it had concluded that I would probably be VVD-minded. He liked to talk to me about that. As a good teenager, of course, I wanted to respond to him. So I was going to be interested in the news as well. But it was later my economics teacher who decided to do something else. He said, "I'm gonna teach you how to read and understand the paper." He meant by that: stock exchange rates, exchange rates, yield requirements, solvency requirements and that sort of thing more. What I wanted was to understand the newspaper and the world. So I started studying economics and I went to work in international business later. That was first in the Netherlands and later five years in the Middle East, in Dubai. I've always liked that. I've discovered new things. I've discovered, like, the fairytale forest of the world. I really liked that back then. In Dubai, for example, I also learned Arabic. At least, I tried. At least I took a class. But in Dubai no one speaks Arabic; everyone there speaks English. So that didn't come off the ground. I did find someone in Holland to keep practicing it, though within the VVD. The downside is that you learn words like "majlis el-sh'aab" or maybe "ras el-maal," but you don't learn how to order a fried egg in a restaurant. So I can't. The experience I have gained there is that, if you want to get to know a culture well, you need to learn the language. When you learn the language, you learn so much more than just a language. I've switched to politics, as you can see. There aren't many people who do that. It means, in a way, starting over when you're from business. But the contrast between business and politics and government is not that great. I don't see any contradiction. In fact, I see a world in which government and business have to work hand in hand to shape the world to a large extent. That is exactly what I want to contribute to as a Member of Parliament. Let me now turn to the initiative of Exxpose. On behalf of the VVD, as you can see, I have become a spokesperson in the field of prevention. This includes the Drinking and Horeca Act and the Tobacco Act, as well as the area of prostitution. I've already discovered a very strong difference. I get e-mails all the time on those first topics. My inbox is full of people who smoke, whether or not with a flavor, and want to keep doing that, and constantly send emails about it. It's also good that they do. I also get a lot of messages from people who are worried about the new alcohol law. But of people who are worried about prostitution, which is a very big problem, forced prostitution at least, I never get emails. I've received zero e-mails on that, except Exxpose. I think it is very good that with more than 40,000 signatures they manage to bring such an important subject to the attention of the House, even if their proposal is not accepted. Young women who have to work long days and then give up most of their income again, who are being abused, misled and forced: I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who feels anything for that. I think everyone wants to act against it. The big question is not whether we want it, the big question is how we want it. The VVD wants to give priority to tracking and prosecuting criminal pimps and pawnshops who can benefit from it. But prostitution is legal in the Netherlands and as far as the VVD is concerned it remains legal. That is also the policy of this cabinet. Soon we will expect a new bill: the Law on the regulation of sex work. He's known too long a history. That is a pity, precisely because of the question of how we are going to combat these abuses. That question needs to be answered. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: do you have any idea when we can expect this law? The law is called Law regulation sex work. The word regulation already indicates that prostitution in the Netherlands is a recognised profession. But it's not gonna be normal. It's never gonna be a real normal profession. I believe it was Mr Segers who said: we do not expect it in the card box of the UWV. But banning sex doesn't fit in with regulating. You cannot regulate a profession first and then prohibit its business. What is included is that prostitutes are protected against malicious customers and, of course, against exploitation and abuse. Additional money has been made available for this purpose during this cabinet period. My question to the Secretary of State is whether this additional capacity for prosecution has also resulted in results. Can she explain that? Finally, I would like to say that some lawyers point out that the current criminalisation of exploitation and trafficking in human beings in the Penal Code is very complex. Effective prosecution, of course, will benefit from clarity in the Code of Criminal Law. My question to the Secretary of State is whether the current wording of the Criminal Code can be improved. Can she explain that too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you. You're way over your speaking time, but it's your maiden speech. It's also a very nice maiden speech. Maiden speeches are the most beautiful speeches, because in them a piece of personal history of MPs is always shared with us. In politics you don't get to know each other very well, but in maiden speeches you still see the other side of politicians. That's very nice. Thank you. I'd like to suspend for brief congratulations by your colleagues. They're here with a bunch of flowers. But keep your distance!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u25	Let's move on. I give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Bolkestein. It was like he'd been there for years. I look forward to working together. I will be brief, because I would like to pay particular compliments to the initiators of the citizens' initiative. I've spoken to them before, including Natasha, Sara and Willemijn. We've just been able to hear how passionately they've been on this subject. It is good that this issue is on the agenda. I think we will disagree to a large extent on the direction of solutions; let me also be honest about that. But I think that the problem they put on our agenda is indeed a very real problem. For I agree with some of my fellow Members, Mr President-in-Office of the Christian Union and the SGP, that the lifting of the brothel ban has not brought what we expected in advance. Then there is the question of why. I have spoken to several sex workers, such as sex workers, who are in fact sometimes very difficult and with traumas and also sex workers who say they have chosen this profession. They simply want to be a full-fledged entrepreneur who is not stigmatized or criminalized and can simply participate fully in the economy. That group says that the reason why the lifting of the brothel ban has not worked sufficiently is that we have not completely decriminalized. I recognise that there are problems in sex work, in prostitution, and that there are many human trafficking in it, more than in many other sectors. But I think we should be careful with human trafficking and calling sex work in one breath all the time, as if those two were one and the same. And I hear a number of colleagues do that anyway. I saw Mrs. Kuik already wanted to stand up. I happened to read her interview this morning at the General Dagblad. I read that with some surprise. Because first, in that interview, she says that it is not her moral point of view on sex work, but the position of vulnerable women. But then she says she does believe that sex work cannot by definition be a decent profession. Those two things, of course, are at odds with each other. 'Cause if you're talking about your moral stance on that sector, we can talk about that. For example, to what extent is exploitation in sex work different from exploitation of Eastern European migrant workers in horticulture? First of all, I have great appreciation for horticulture. I'm a gardener's son myself. But there is also a lot of exploitation going on there. I don't hear the CDA as much about that as when it comes to sex work. I would argue that we should look at the problems and abuses that exist. Let us also find solutions to this. At the end of my speech, I will make a number of concrete proposals for this. But let's not pretend that every sex worker is a victim of human trafficking. And let's not put it in that corner either, because then we stigmatize and criminalize and bring solutions not closer, but further away from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr Van den Berge has already indicated that more abuses are taking place in prostitution than in other sectors. If you see that there are more abuses than anywhere else, my question to Mr van den Berge is who the government should stand for and make policies for. Is that for the women who say they're willing to do it, that little group? Or is that for the warehouse to women behind it who are forced into it? If you look at the lifting of the brothel ban and what comes out of it, do you not think that we are actually laundering wrongs and money?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u28	First, Mrs Kuik's first question. I think we should make policies that are good for the Netherlands and for everyone in our country. We should not look at one group and say: every sex worker is a victim of trafficking in human beings, so we ban it. But we shouldn't say: every sex worker is a happy hooker, so we don't have to do anything about it. We just need to see what we can do for the people in the sex work. The people who work there willingly and willingly, we must give rights above all. They do not want repression, they want full rights. In an interrupting debate with Mr Van der Graaf, I mentioned a very poignant example of this in the corona crisis. For example, as there are so limited permits for sex work that does not apply to other zzp sectors.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's an example of an effect you'd have if you criminalized it further. It already is, but that would make you worse. I would like to make one final point to Mr Kuik. She says I recognize that trafficking in human beings occurs in sex work. That's right, but like I said, it also occurs in horticulture. I wonder why we are having a very fierce debate here to ban an entire sector because there are abuses there. Why do we do that when it comes to sex work, but not when it comes to horticulture, for example? If Mrs. Kuik's answer is because she thinks differently about sex work, that's okay. That is her right, but then that is a moral starting point. Then I think you will have a different debate than when you talk about tackling human trafficking and abuses, because that requires other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u29	Let it be clear: you have to tackle all the abuses in all sectors. But the crazy thing is that GroenLinks has a position on the 24-hour economy and on capitalization. Isn't this buying off permission? The man's facing the woman. The man says, "I want to have sex with you, and the woman says no." But money is being deposited and that no turns into a yes. In other words, the physical integrity is being paid off. The no turns into a yes because of the money. This must also be a value debate at GroenLinks, where this theme is present in all subjects except in this situation when it comes to equality between men and women. Because the women, that's what it's about: the large group of women that gets paid off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u30	This is very nice. Now we're here. It's a value discussion. Well, that's good, because that's not how the interview started in the Algemeen Dagblad. It started: I want to stand up for the vulnerable women who are victims of trafficking in human beings. Then I think you have another debate. I will make a few more proposals to the Secretary of State on what GroenLinks thinks is necessary to deal with these abuses. But if there is a value discussion, and I like that very much; as a political one, I would say: GroenLinks stands for different values and one of them is the integrity of your own body. That integrity works both ways. If the woman is forced, we have to deal with it. That's not good, but that also means that if a woman chooses to sell her own body, if she finds it morally acceptable and if she wants to make her money in that way... I see Mrs. Kuik looking surprised, but I speak to sex workers who say that. For example, they started it in their student days. They like it and they've kept doing it very consciously. Those sex workers are there, too. I believe that Mrs Kuik is wrong to lump together vulnerable sex workers who are victims of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u31	Finally, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yeah, finally. Mr Van den Berge does not go into the point where you capitalize on that physical integrity. The most intimate thing, sexuality, is for sale because of money, because someone with power opposes it. At that point, I'd like to hear something back. My other point is that it's en-and. It's a sum. We do see a group of women saying, "I do this voluntarily." But if you see the abuses of women we don't see so often on TV, who have traumas, then shouldn't we, as a government, choose to protect that group? Then there is legislation where you see that there is a change in society in thinking about the right to buy sex. Shouldn't we look at the women we're supposed to protect? Shouldn't that be the focus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u33	First at the point of physical integrity. I think I have largely accepted that. I said physical integrity works both ways. And then the price tag, because that was the second point. Mrs. Kuik asked several questions. I answered most of them. Then about what Mrs Kuik calls "the words "the capitalization of physical integrity." Yeah, that's also a consequence of finding that physical integrity is a high quality, right? Then you can decide for yourself what to do with that physical integrity. So that freedom of choice is essential in that, but I would not take the moral view that I am not okay with that at all costs. We capitalize a lot of things that are very personal: our privacy, for example, and our time. We do this all the time, and we need to have moral debates on whether we are okay with it. To say that we are not okay with sex work, but that we are okay with that for our privacy, so where we go and who we meet is okay with that, in a way, double standards, unless I start hearing objective criteria why sex work isn't okay with it and privacy or your free time is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr Van den Berge also put the finger on the moral debate. That's good. It is an honest matter to think: from what moral values do you think? He himself says, and that's how I know GroenLinks: we think you can choose for yourself. Does he see another development in thinking in a progressive party like GroenLinks? I notice that there is a development in a country such as France, and also in the northern countries mentioned, as in the slavery debate. It is said: no, we should not only tackle abuses; in fact, human dignity is at stake here too. Is there still a chance of an evolution at GroenLinks in terms of the value debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u35	It is nice to hear colleague Van der Staaij talk about evolution. That's the first thing. But I think there's always a chance. But now, when I look at the facts, at the studies I have studied in preparation for this debate, and for example at different models, such as the New Zealand model and the Swedish model, and also at their effects, I see that in the short term it will not happen. But we are indeed there Mr Van der Staaij is right in saying that a party is built on strong values. We have in-house constant conversations about values, whether or not they should evolve and how they fit into the present age and context. So I never rule it out. Mr Van der Staaij just asked: where was Mr Van Nispen twenty years ago? Yeah, if you talk to me in 20 years, maybe we'll think differently. I do not rule it out, but I do not see it happening in this debate. Let me be very honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u36	Indeed, I am seeing some evolution. I remember Mrs Halsema as the spokesman at the end of 20 years saying that they were going to celebrate the emancipation that had been achieved here. I don't think there was much reason for a party after all. On the contrary, you can see that a lot of problems have not been removed after that, but have come back stronger. Which brings me to my second and final question. Look at facts and reports. I noticed that in 2016 by the European Commission, I know that GroenLinks, who is always following very well, has carried out an investigation that says: our conclusion is that the criminalisation of prostitution can help to tackle trafficking in human beings. How does GroenLinks read such a report from the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u37	We read this with a great deal of interest, like other reports such as those of Mr Rottier, who has been promoted on the New Zealand model. We read all kinds of reports with great interest and certainly those of the European Commission. I am not saying that there could be no effect of criminalisation at all on trafficking in human beings. But I do see that there will also be a lot of side effects and unwanted effects. Trafficking in human beings involves a great deal of illegality, which means that a lot of it disappears from sight. That's what I hear from sex workers who have worked in countries where buying sex is criminalized. The question is also how reliable the official figures are. The short answer is: I read all the reports with great interest. Let me also say that I already acknowledged in my speech that it is a fact that lifting the ban on brotheling did not bring about everything we expected at the time. I think that at that time we had different expectations, including as a progressive and liberal party, as regards the follow-up steps, namely giving full rights to sex workers. Of course, there is still no such thing. I hear from many sex workers: give us rights, not repression. I see my time is running again, Mr. Chairman. In that case, I'll move on quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u38	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u39	I'm sure it's a sign that my answers are too long. I would like to address a number of specific points. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if it would be possible to carry out a comparative study on the impact of different models, such as the Nordic model, but also the New Zealand model, on the position of sex workers and trafficking in human beings. That is one concrete point. The second specific point is in line with Mr Bolkestein's question on the additional resources allocated to tackle trafficking in human beings. But also think of our own proposals during the previous General Political Reviews, for example to spend more money on extra vice detectives. What's the effect of that? Can we say anything about how this has helped to reduce human trafficking? With regard to time, Mr President, I would like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mrs Van der Graaf has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u41	Before Mr Van den Berge is gone, I would like to ask him another question. I really liked the discussion about values that just came into being. I know that GroenLinks strongly believes in the equality ideal and that this is an important starting point. So I would very much like to know from Mr Van den Berge how he looks at Dutch prostitution policy. Does that promote equality between men and women, or is it an underlining of the power inequality that our society knows and which GroenLinks as a great advocate for the MeToo movement is constantly emphasising?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u42	Well, GroenLinks doesn't think that the current prostitution model would institutionalize inequality in a general sense. What I do see is that the way we've arranged it, it's the way inequality works. For example, I hear from sex workers that they really want to start for themselves as a full-fledgedzzp'er, but that they can't do that because, for example, they can't get a permit from their congregation. So they are forced, for example, to work in a brothel or at an already existing collective and thus, of course, also become dependent against their will on pimps or otherwise people who make money from their work. I am not saying that I would be against pimping in all cases, but there are certainly situations in which women do not choose to do so themselves, but are forced to do so by policy. Therefore, my proposal would also be to decriminalise it completely and to treat sex workers as full-fledged entrepreneurs or employees, depending on the employment they choose, and to give them the same rights. We are already making proposals on tackling abuses. We got extra money for Vice detectives last year. So we agree on that right away, but not on banning the whole profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u43	Can I ask how Mr Van den Berge is looking at the fact that this vast majority is perhaps concerned with survival and perhaps not directly thinking about improving the employment situation, as he advocates here? Think about it. What happens when those curtains close? What happens if you haven't made enough money that day for the rent of your room? What happens if you think: I have nothing to lose, I have to help this customer, I'm going to be under the price? What happens if that pimp or that operator puts pressure on you to earn extra income? What happens when the family comes after you and asks you to give up your money? Women are not in the process of strengthening their legal status. I would very much like a response from GroenLinks. Does GroenLinks see this large group of women and what is the answer for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u44	The examples described by Mrs Van der Graaf are really poignant. I do hear those stories from women, too. Those stories are there and I don't deny them either, but I also hear stories from women who choose to do so. So let's not pretend that the whole group consists of women who experience what colleague Van der Graaf describes. Then her question how GroenLinks looks at these stories. They are indeed very poignant and we must do something about that. Only, I believe that we can do this best by tackling abuses, but above all by choosing rights instead of repression. Because why do women, for example, sometimes have to work against their will because they haven't earned enough that day? Because their labour rights are not sufficiently protected, because they do not have secondary employment conditions, because they fish alongside the net at emergency support in times of corona. I also liked the fact that we jumped together for those women, despite our ideological differences. So I believe more in the rights approach than in the repression approach, but I absolutely see the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u45	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u46	This corona crisis does indeed make it clear that it does not really seem so in order, that they have no registration at all with the Chamber of Commerce and that they sometimes do not have a bsn or their own bank account. At the same time, this is not a normal sector. Police investigation indicates that, too. It's a sector in a criminogenic world. That means there are ties to organized crime behind this. So it's not just a market. These are not professions that you find in the UWV boxes, precisely because of these abnormal conditions in which young women, underage women, often end up, are in a very vulnerable position. Is Mr Van den Berge then prepared to look not only at strengthening the legal status, but also at whether the criminalization of sex buying works, so to criminalize not the prostitute but the buyer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u47	I don't think that's the solution route. Mrs Van der Graaf is right that part of the sex work takes place under criminal circumstances, but I think we should ask ourselves why. I also think that we cannot separate that from the policy. How is it that many women who would like to do so cannot apply for registration with the Chamber of Commerce? Because they don't get a permit from their congregation, because we have it very regulated and very limited. I see the problems, and I don't think we've taken care of it right now, but the question is which way you're going. Are you going to turn left, go the way of decriminalizing and giving women rights, which I choose, or are you going the way of repression and prohibition? But as I said, I asked the Secretary of State to identify the advantages of the different models so that we could talk about them. Because we are also being beaten up by investigations. It's highly polarized, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, a warm welcome to the new colleague of the VVD. Nice to have you here with us. It was a very nice maiden speech. Welcome! Then, Madam President, I would very much like to thank Natasja for her wonderful story. She could get to work as a Member of Parliament, because she was doing a great job. Natasha of Exxpose, thank you very much. It is also a great good thing that citizens can speak here in plenary as far as I am concerned. In her words, we are involved in the subject of combating abuses among sex workers. Here we can find each other very well when we talk about abuses, because for D66 it is also very important that sex workers, men and women, should be respected and protected. Everyone deserves a safe and healthy working environment. For D66 it remains important to mention that sex work is also really ordinary work. Yes, there is trafficking in human beings within the sex work sector, but not all trafficking in human beings relates to the sex work sector. If we want to combat the abuses, if that is really what we are talking about, the Swedish model, as proposed by this citizens' initiative, is not the solution, according to D66, because with perhaps very good intentions, criminalising and criminalising part of the transaction pushes both sides into illegality. Men and women disappear completely from sight. Criminalisation can have very serious negative consequences, and that really cannot be the intention. After the introduction of this Swedish model, I also heard my colleagues from the Christian Union and the CDA, who see this as some sort of magical remedy, we really saw very frightening figures in Ireland and France. Because let's also focus on what happens when you criminalize it. There was a huge increase in violence in Ireland and in France there were HIV increases that were beyond your control. I was visiting Paris a year ago and there the forests of Bois de Boulogne are completely filled with illegal prostitution, because we push people that way. I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u50	Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr Bouali of D66 mentioned a number of studies. I didn't see that one and the statistics underneath. He's picking out a few things. When I look at France, the number of proceedings against human traffickers has increased by 54%. We in the Netherlands are hardly able to catch the people who force women into prostitution. In France, it has risen by 54%. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u52	We can play a game here about statistics. I'm not gonna do that. That's not wise. What we can find each other on is to deal with abuses if we find them. GroenLinks' colleague has just said, and I will also mention it later, that we have two models, namely the Swedish model and the New Zealand model. You say quite clearly: we choose this one model, we want a ban, we want to ban everything related to prostitution. But you're not talking about the effects that happen then. I'd like to take you to what happens to a society. I don't want to take that responsibility, I don't think you do either. We have the examples, we know what is happening in Ireland, we know what is happening in France, we know what is happening in Sweden. In Sweden they do not even want to do any more research on it, because they are afraid that the figures will be disappointing. I went to work in France the other day. I saw what's going on there. That doesn't make you happy. If you tell me on behalf of the CDA, we are going to work together in this Chamber to see how we can deal with these abuses, how we can strengthen the position of women, yes, then you will find me on your side. But if you just want to hit something very dogmatic and say "we're just gonna ban it all, and I don't really care what happens next," then those horrible things keep going on. You also mentioned a number of examples in your interview and the colleague of the Christian Union. They will then come back in worse form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u53	That's bullshit, because that's also clearly proven in research. It's hard when you mention research here that isn't scientifically substantiated. Let's go back to the Netherlands and see what kind of abuses are taking place here. The human trafficker Saban B. has been able to continue putting women behind the windows for decades. If you see how much illegality there is already through the internet, on the dark web, then we have a problem here in the Netherlands? Surely we agree that there is a problem here in the Netherlands? When you see that 95% of women on the Walls come from poor Eastern European countries, we do not have a fantastic culture here with women who all choose firmly, freely and in a good position. Isn't it the reality that 75% of the people who are in prostitution are young girls, between 13 and 25 years old? We've been working together for those kid brides to do something about that, but this is a very large part of those people who are being dragged here, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u54	You are quite right to say that we fought together where we can offer solutions. But you no longer come up with a solution; you make the problem worse and more invisible. You really need to look at that, because you close your eyes to that. The cases you mention now, the terrible crimes you mention, go on even harder if you criminalize it completely. It's getting away from your field of view, for God's sake. We end up in a society where we can't control it anymore, where bad things happen. I will also ask the Secretary of State in a moment: let us all here as Members of Parliament, when sensible people look at what these models do, what the pros and the cons are. I've got the tests right here in front of me. There's a lot of them. Of the World Health Organization not the least Soa Aids Netherlands, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, all organizations with a reputation say: make the right decision. You can keep interrupting me all the time, but look with us instead of just doing something dogmatic. Look at how we can solve the problem, how we can combat these abuses, instead of magicing that magical tool of "we're going to ban things" all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mrs. Kuik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u56	I also read those reports which Mr Bouali refers to. For example, if I look at Amnesty International's report, these are old data before the model was introduced in Norway. So you must also take a critical look at what we are dealing with at the moment. So I'm looking at how we can protect those women who are now in a terrible situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u57	Yeah, I'm fine. I'd like to do that with you. I think the whole Chamber wants to do that here and we all have to work on it. We have to do that with open sight and look at all the figures. But I also see that we have good examples. I'll ask the Secretary of State, too. We now have a number of countries where the system you are advocating has been put in place, and we are seeing very serious negative consequences. I just want to map it, too. Then we can discuss it openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman. We saw at the beginning of the corona crisis that this group was very vulnerable when all the revenue dropped. For example, there are more sectors; think of the housing market, where sex workers are treated unfairly. D66 wants to strengthen the social position of sex workers. More and more international and Dutch organisations I have just mentioned them to my colleague Kuik and support this call. Let me mention them again: the World Health Organization, Soa Aids Netherlands, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, international organizations in the field of the Ihbtqi community and so on. That list is almost infinite. The message is very clear. If we want less violence, if we want more rights, if we want better health, better contact with the municipalities, better contact with the police, then sex work must be freed from stigmas, discrimination and exclusion, and so we must really tackle these abuses. I now turn to the Secretary of State. What opportunities does the Secretary of State see for improving the social position of sex workers and for destigma of sex work? And in what sectors? I refer to the housing market, health care, contact with the municipalities and so on. Mr President, I will conclude. Within this sector, we must prevent and combat financial exploitation, coercion and violence. We must ensure that rights are respected and stigmas are combated. We shouldn't push sex work into crime, we should turn sex work into work. We just talked about these different models. I am working with a colleague of the Labour Party on a motion to see if we can investigate the advantages and disadvantages of these models. We'll come back to that later. Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mrs. Van der Graaf, brief questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr Bouali simply has a very recognizable story for D66; let me just say that first. He's been playing that with a lot of shit. But I would ask Mr Bouali whether he is prepared to allow the possibility to see whether we are actually right in the Netherlands. In other words, to look not only at strengthening the legal position, but also at what really works to tackle human trafficking and forced prostitution, what really works to tackle those abuses. So I ask him to look at a model as there is in Sweden, but also in France I have just spoken to you about it, and so to look at what is happening in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mrs Van der Graaf has given me a very solution-oriented person, so I am happy to say so. We have had discussions with each other on how, for example, to facilitate women who wish to leave. Once you want to leave the profession, you know my point of view in that regard. That's what we need to look at. I do want to watch that with you. But I also keep calling you to look at all the systems and all the pluses and minuses. If you ask me to look at the Swedish model and its possible benefits, then I would very much like to do so. I think we should just look at that with an open eye. In the previous debate we also discussed this, but with Mr Segers. We can really find each other about these abuses. There's a lot wrong in that sector. Let's see how we can solve that, but I'm not from the school: we're going to ban it, because that's some kind of magic formula and then we'll see how it goes. And if it all gets worse, then maybe it doesn't or we don't want to see it. I'm not from that school, but I'd like to see what the possibilities are with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u63	That's very good. D66 goes into this election time with the slogan: release everyone, but don't let anyone fall. I would very much like to know from D66 who they are looking for, who they want to release and especially who they do not want to drop when it comes to prostitution in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u64	That phrase that you quote very nicely, I like the fact that you quote our campaign slogan again, actually says it all: release people. That's what I argued in this story. That's a progressive story. People have to have choices, but don't let people who are weak fall. Mrs. Kuik just interrupted me as well. We often do the OS debate together. We often argue for the weakest links. We have often fought together to combat trafficking in women and trafficking in human beings. That's where you'll find me by your side, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u65	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u66	Then the question is: who is actually free and when is there a free choice? Is there a free choice if you agree to what someone else has decided you have to do, if you have agreed to a proposal another says you have to do it or if you actually have no choice and have to choose between two evils? Actually, those aren't choices, they're decisions that the vast group stands for. Is that also the group that D66 has in mind and doesn't want to drop? Is D66 willing to see if we can also criminalize sex? That might be an uncomfortable position for you to take in, but are you willing to really take a serious look at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u67	I think it's a very strange question, but I have to be honest with you, because you're asking me if I want to release people. At the same time, you want me to ban things. If I'm gonna ban things, if we're all gonna adopt legislation here in the Chamber and ban things, then I'm not gonna let people go. And some of my colleagues have also said it: it is simply a job, it is a profession. A lot of people do it with great pleasure and earn their living with it. There are indeed abuses. I'll go with you. I would like to go along with you in the sense of: how do we deal with it; how do we prevent it? But I just want a free society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u68	No, Mrs. Van der Graaf. I'm going to see Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u69	Yeah, it's a pretty picture. I had to think: if you release wolves to sheep, you have a lot of freedom but still many victims. You can drop that again anyway. So it's still a nice picture to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u70	There's always context, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u71	The question I have to ask Mr Bouali is the following. I heard him say open visor, open visor. On the other hand, it sounds like banning, a criminal approach, can never help. Isn't that a somewhat dogmatic approach? Surely it doesn't suit D66 to be so negative about the handling of criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u72	No, you won't catch me on dogma, I hope. But I'll ask you the question straight back: are you willing to check with me to see if the other models are working models? I have just said to your colleague that I am quite prepared to look at a particular model, if it shows many positive aspects and makes sure that we are fighting these abuses. But if analyses and the debates we have here show that New Zealand, for example, is working and that it is in the end better, will you, as a SGP, support us in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr Bouali is good at asking questions back. Actually, you have to do that on your own term. Nevertheless, I would like to say: yes. We will also support motions that say: government, take a closer look at research. On the other hand, I'll establish the following. I do see developments in our group over time in the sense that we say: well, we understand that, if you are very much focusing on women when offering prostitution, it can be very negative. So take those men, the buyers, especially! That's actually the Swedish model. That is a specific point from research on which we have changed our mind. We say: yes, that is a good approach. My question to D66 is: can you also imagine that, in this respect, there could really be tightening-up of legislation in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u74	If this legislation is intended to combat abuses and strengthen the position of women and men in this profession, yes. But I just indicated to you that I saw with my own eyes what happens in countries when you criminalize it. That really doesn't cheer me up, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bouali. Mr Markuszower has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Bolkestein of the VVD Group on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to express my sympathy for this citizens' initiative. The PVV very much welcomes citizens' initiatives. It is very good that citizens are expressing their views on pressing issues. As far as we are concerned, this should be done much more often. The authors of this initiative rightly call for attention to be paid to abuses in the prostitution sector. Violence, trafficking in human beings, exploitation and rape are the order of the day in this industry. The PVV supports the problems raised by the proposers of this citizens' initiative. Unfortunately, prostitution and trafficking in human beings have become almost synonymous. More than 12 years ago, the PVV proposed raising the age of prostitution to 21 years. Eventually, the cabinet took this position, but implemented it, no matter what! I ask the Secretary of State: please do so! At the same time, unfortunately, we must also note that the approach to trafficking in human beings has failed for years. It is estimated that the number of victims of trafficking in human beings in the Netherlands is around 6,000 per year, but more than 80% of the victims, minimally, are afraid to make the move to the police. They know that the perpetrators are barely convicted and that if they are already convicted, they will receive extremely low penalties. As a result, they can quickly take revenge on the often very vulnerable women and men. On average, only 200 cases are detected each year and only 130 are convicted, with an average sentence of less than two years. So less than 2% of the perpetrators disappear for a very short time. The Netherlands is a carnival for human traffickers. The odds of getting caught are almost zero. Justice is looking away and abandoning the victims of human trafficking. The Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State, who is here today, should start to act against these unscrupulous human traffickers. A large majority of the perpetrators of trafficking in human beings are foreigners or so-called Dutch people with a non-Western background. Take those pimps, those bastards, and those Eastern European gangs for real! And if you catch them, Secretary of State, make sure they disappear under lock and key for a long, long time. As far as PVV is concerned, a human trafficker disappears in prison for at least 20 years. This will also help the victims of trafficking in human beings. If the buyer knows that the woman is being forced, then there is rape. Then treat it as such. Secretary of State, I ask you to report this to the Minister of Justice as well. Treat it like rape. How can the perpetrators of rape hardly be punished? One of those perps, Fouad A., who brutally raped a prostitute a few years ago, was only sentenced to 30 months in prison. That's nothing! With the current policy, you declare prostitutes outlaw and unscrupulous rapists and ruthless human traffickers above the law. Stop EU border policy as well. This only gives Eastern European gangs the opportunity to trade women to and in the Netherlands. The PVV only wants to allow labour migration if there is an employment permit. Because of the open borders of the European Union, the Netherlands has no control over what kind of rabble of people comes in here. The EU forces us to let those human traffickers who are often non-Dutch people in here and then EU privacy legislation reduces the chance of getting caught. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The PVV wants the Minister and the Secretary of State to quickly arrange for the minimum age to be set at 21. The PVV wants the Minister and the Secretary of State to ensure that human traffickers are dealt with very hard and are punished very long. And, in conclusion, the PVV wants the so-called sex buyers who know that the prostitute doesn't voluntarily sell her body to be prosecuted and convicted of rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr Markuszower says that the cabinet is abandoning victims of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u78	Hard as hell to go!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u79	I have a very specific question about that. One of the things that this Secretary of State, including asylum and migration, has done is to abolish or at least severely restrict the so-called B8/3 procedure. This means, in concrete terms, that people who say they are victims of trafficking in human beings and who have reported them may wait for the criminal investigation in the Netherlands when they come from abroad. Does the PVV agree with GroenLinks that the cabinet should return to that? Do you also think that if people say 'I am a victim of trafficking in human beings', they should be able to wait for the criminal investigation in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u80	I must honestly tell you that that part is not my wallet in the Chamber, as it is called, so I should check it with my colleague. I need to think about that. You say that victims of trafficking in human beings are now forced not to stay in the Netherlands. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u81	If they press charges, which means they're on the radar of police and justice, they'll be deported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u82	That does not seem to me to be a good development. If victims report, the Netherlands also has a kind of duty of care. But the problem is that very many of these women are not Dutch and are traded from Eastern Europe. So you should stop with that open border policy first, so you don't have all those Eastern European gangs and therefore women here. I do think that once women are here and are victims of a crime here, the Netherlands has a duty of care for those victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u83	Rounding up. I think it is very nice that Mr Markuszower is going to discuss this in his PVV group. Maybe GroenLinks and the PVV can ever work together on asylum and migration. That would be interesting, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u84	I will discuss it with my colleague and my group. The answer was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u85	Really a fervent argument: take on those human traffickers! I couldn't agree more. With regard to the model of equality, as I said earlier, the number of procedures for dealing with these traffickers has increased by 54% in France, for example. Here in the Netherlands we are hardly able to catch them. That's what you said. If this model of equality means that the buyer, not the woman, is punishable and that we can tackle and condemn those traffickers, that scum, does the PVV agree with us that we should go to that model of equality, or at least examine how we can carry it out in the Netherlands, if these are the effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u86	I have listened to the debate, read your article and, of course, I have listened to the authors of the citizens' initiative. I don't see the causal link. You're criminalising the sex buyer through a penalty system, which doesn't even get a prison sentence; I never understand that very well: if something is criminal, punish hard, but doesn't deal with the traffickers, even though they're already criminal. Trafficking in human beings is already a criminal offence in the Netherlands. It's just that the justice system isn't doing anything about it. The odds of getting caught are almost zero. 2% of the human traffickers may have ended up in the cell even less, for a very short time. So we're already not doing anything about trafficking in human beings, which would lead to a prison sentence if we prosecuted it. Now we want to give another group, the sex buyers, a fine. What do you mean, justice would be able to prosecute that group? Do they have a capacity for that all of a sudden? I would say to the Justice Department: first tackle the real big problems, the human traffickers, who could have been in jail for years now on the basis of the current law. I want it to be at least 20 years. But also on the basis of the current law, we can put that kind of horrible criminals in jail for a very long time. So let's not focus on that group of sex buyers by giving them a small fine. There's no prosecution capacity for that either. We once had a human dealer in the Netherlands, Saban B. And what did the Justice Department do? He let him go! So even if we have them inside, even if we have the human traffickers in our sights, the justice system will let someone like that flee to, of course, Turkey. Indeed, the perpetrators are not only Eastern European gangs but also very often people with a non-Western immigration background, often from Islamic countries. That, of course, we should stop you know our PVV position too. This would also solve the problem and the abuses in the prostitution world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u87	Last question, Mrs. Kuik. I wouldn't have limited the number of interruptions, but I will now. Because today we are also going to try to work a little according to schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u88	I think we are on the same page when it comes to dealing with these human traffickers. But Mr Markuszower can also see that it is now very complicated. Because women are standing behind the windows with a smile, and ten years later, they dare to find out that they are victims. So it's very complicated to build a case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u89	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u90	If we see that the model of equality in France, for example, is now very easy to tackle and condemn those traffickers, is it not interesting for the PVV to look at that model so that we can lock those figures up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u91	Clear. Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u92	I'm never that good at short, Mr. Chairman. I think it is the duty of every parliamentarians to look closely at everything. So, of course, we have to look at everything. But again, I do not see the causal link and I do not agree with my colleague from the CDA...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u94	Yes, Mrs. Kuik, I know. We started in the Chamber together. We did another newscast together. So I do not agree with her that it is so complicated to deal with human traffickers. By the way, not all women are sitting behind the windows with a smile. There is also a lot happening in the dark world of the Internet. But you can see it. I live in Amsterdam. I used to take tourists to the red light district. And you don't see any smiling women there. You can see the abuses, but you don't see the police. You don't see any vans picking up human traffickers and pimps just standing outside, waiting for the money, exploiting those women. I think it's very simple to deal with human trafficking. Justice should just do it, but they won't. And if you don't do something, it won't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr Bouali and then Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u96	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u97	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u98	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u99	Then you may, indeed, take a little longer, because my question is short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u100	If it's okay with the president.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u101	Could you perhaps explain what you think of the proposal to criminalise the prostitution sector? You deal with trafficking in human beings and at the age, but can you elaborate on what you want with the proposal, the citizens' initiative, which is here? Are you in favour of it or against it? Are you for the Swedish model? Do you want the New Zealand model? That is not really clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u102	I'm in favour of the Dutch model. The Dutch model is not running well. That's not because of the model, it's because of a non-functioning judiciary. It's because the police don't pick up, because the Public Prosecutor's Office doesn't prosecute and because judges don't punish hard enough where there are abuses. And it is because, as a Chamber, we do not force the government to do what the cabinet has already promised, namely to increase the minimum age for prostitution to 21 years. If we did these things, we would have a Dutch model that other countries could look at. Of course, I am forgetting one important point: close the borders so that all those terrible human traffickers stay outside our door.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u103	So no criminalization of prostitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u104	No. As I understand it, the initiators of the citizens' initiative do not want that either. They only want to criminalize the sex buyer through a fine. I think that's a gray area anyway. I like black or white. I really don't see anything in a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u105	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u106	I have also said that I think it is based on the detection capacity for the real abuses. I also agree with Mr Van Nispen's speech in D66 and with Mr Van Nispen's speech, which followed on from that, that criminalisation will only lead to more underground prostitution and more abuses. It will lead to far more abuses with vulnerable women and, by the way, men. I would remind you, for example, that Deputy Chief Prosecutor in Amsterdam. He may now be prosecuted, but he was not initially prosecuted, even though he had abused or fornicated children, underage boys. Those are really the wrongs we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u107	You may ask a short question, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u108	I will. It is often said that it goes underground, but if you look at the Dutch model, which Mr Markuszower speaks so enthusiastically about, you can see that three quarters are actually already taking place in the illegal corner. The national rapporteur also pointed out this. There is a huge increase in the number of minors, including in home prostitution. Actually, we're only getting a look at the case now. Is Mr Markuszower not prepared to see if we can influence that demand side by looking at its consequences and seeing how that can contribute? The police in Sweden have been able to do a much better job of picking up and condemning those wrong people in this corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u109	Very briefly, because I don't think we disagree in the basics. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union also says that a lot of problems start with underage prostitutes, underage girls who are lured into prostitution by loverboys, often boys with a non-western background, immigrants, often from Islamic countries. We already agree on this: increase that age to 21 years. We believe that those 21-year-old young women are in a different phase of their lives, so that you can mitigate the risk of these abuses, which indeed often starts with vulnerable, younger girls and also boys, a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u110	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the initiators of Exxpose for having succeeded in putting this issue on the agenda here. Whatever the outcome of this debate today, it shows that we need to talk again about how we deal with the sex-working Netherlands. We have fought a long battle for the legalization of sex work, but we must also note that it did not bring about what we might have hoped for ten years ago. So that requires us all to look again with an open mind: how do we proceed? Maybe ten years ago I was visiting myself on the "Groningen ramparts." I'm sure it has a correct name. I was there visiting a lady who was a fully voluntary sex worker, but she immediately said: "Don't be naive and don't close your eyes, because I am one of 5% of the sex workers in the Netherlands who really does so voluntarily, without compulsion or urge. It's one big crook gang." That also shows that I like to handle it well for the 5% that is in it for good reason and therefore makes those choices entirely out of their own integrity. Then let's do it right. The corona crisis has shown that we have not yet managed this properly, because even a simple Tozo scheme did not qualify for many people. I think that's a shame when you say that you see that as a full-fledged thing. On the other hand, in 95% of cases, there are just a lot of abuses, such as abuse, exploitation and abuse. All examples have already been mentioned here. That is also why we still have an initiative proposal in the First Chamber in which we, together with the SP and the Christian Union, advocate a ban on buying sex when we know there is abuse, for example because the girls are far too young. The cabinet is also working on a bill for sex regulation, but that too has been quiet for a number of years. That is why we see that we are doing the debate on how to deal with trafficking in human beings and exploitation, above all very politically, rather than looking at what is needed. That does not require the simple solution of raising the age of prostitution, or regulating a number of other matters, because this obviously affects many subjects. It's about labour migration and how we deal with it. It is about whether we are sufficiently protecting our children in child care, because it is full of girls and boys who have fallen into the hands of loverboys. So that really requires a broad view and a look at the issue. It's also about the care of victims. They're just being deported. We have been advocating protection for Nigerian girls, for example, for years, as they used to be available. Vietnamese girls just walk into the front door and disappear back at the back door, and we all think that's normal. This is also happening under the CDA regime, I would like to say in the direction of Mrs Kuik. In other words, I want to look with an open eye, because I see that this is necessary. That is why I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State to look objectively and carefully at the Swedish model on the one hand and, on the other, the New Zealand model on the other, and perhaps some other models in between. We will also table a motion to this effect together with a number of other parties. Do I expect the Holy Grail to be in between? No, because we're looking for a Dutch model. That will have hooks and eyes, but we will look at what we can learn with an open eye. What are the benefits? What are the downsides? What do you have to take into account? And how does that relate to the Dutch context? I would very much like to encourage such a well-founded research, also with a little speed, so that we can make serious work of it at the beginning of the next cabinet period. Because nobody can look away and nobody can politicize. It's time to look at new solutions with an open mind, because that's what all the girls and all the boys who are now victims of a situation they haven't chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To the initiators of Exxpose, I would like to say: you are priceless. I want to thank you for your commitment and commitment to the rights of people in prostitution. It is very nice that you have now managed to get this on the agenda. As a CDA, I share your view that it is about values: protecting vulnerable people, but also the fundamental right of equality. As a politician, you have to ask yourself who you're making certain laws for. The strange thing about the whole prostitution policy is that it seems like we're doing it for women who want to get into prostitution. But when you look at it, you can see that mostly the customers are served. In the vast majority, that's a man. The hallmark of prostitution is that the woman doesn't want to have sex with the person asking, but the offer of money makes it a yes. The agreement is therefore paid off by the buyer. Isn't it very vulnerable to buy off something like sex, the most intimate thing I can imagine? Let's look at the facts. Of the 40 million to 42 million people in prostitution worldwide, 75% are between 13 and 25 years old. Those are very young women. Assuming the most conservative estimate, one in seven victims are human trafficking. Traumas and addictions are incomparablely more common in this sector than in other sectors. And what does it say that more than 95% of young women from poor regions work in Eastern Europe on the Walls? What does that say about how we look at these women, whom we want to sacrifice, and about the double morale, which Mr Van der Staaij also talked about? When you ask someone on the street, "Would you recommend your daughter to go into prostitution?', is the answer no. But those Eastern European women? "Be my guest." GroenLinks said that the northern model is about criminalising, but women are not criminalized. I also find the comparison with horticulture strange, because in horticulture you are not raped. They're completely different situations. It's a crazy equation. I think you should address both abuses, but I think it's a crazy equation when you see how many women are left with PTSD on this job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mrs. Kuik spoke to me. I do not think it is a crazy comparison, but we can differ on that. We've had that moral debate before. Let me now turn to that point of criminalisation. It sounds very sympathetic on paper: we do not criminalize the woman, or the man, so the sex worker, who offers the work, but only the user. But de facto criminalize and stigmatize the work with that of course. I have been in contact with a sex worker who has worked in Ireland, where they have taken over the Swedish model. It indicates: if something happens to you as a sex worker, you think three times...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u115	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u116	...before you go to the police, because then you lose your business. Isn't that criminalization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u117	I would like to go back to what we are going through here in the Netherlands. In the legal sector, abuses take place under our noses, under the noses of the police. Then there is such a woman who is forced there for ten years under the name "happy hooker." For ten years, we have not been able to recognize that. But we say, with the legislation we have now: no, we legalize it, it's allowed, it's a right to buy sex. Then I think: yes, but you make as many abuses as possible, which you're actually laundering. We are unable to take the wrongs out now and get the women out of that situation. You can see from the examples: women are in such a situation for ten years. Mr Van den Berge must also want to do something about this. And then you have to look at what's happening around us, right? In society, we have discussions about equality. I think that is very important discussions. You also have to think about being open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u118	Open look, of course we always do that at GroenLinks. But at this point... I continue to think this is a crooked reasoning. Tackling wrongdoing? Yes. That's why we want those extra vice detectives. That is why we say: victims of trafficking in human beings must be able to wait for their procedure in the Netherlands when they come from abroad. But measuring double standards is something I would like the CDA to be honest about, because then we can have that debate on values. In sex work, we think it's dirty, we don't think it's hearing, and that's why we forbid it. But in horticulture, where there are a lot of abuses, we do not say: we are going to ban the whole sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u119	That just switched.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yes, but I'm getting that same answer from Mrs Kuik again. I'd love to hear which one it is. When it comes to abuses, we must be consistent. Are we going to ban peppers and asparagus? Or is it about sex work being a whole different sector for you? Then say so, because then we have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u121	It's en-and. It's a sum. It's a whole different sector. You can see the abuses. But as a politician, I also make the decision. I see a small group of women, whom I also speak, who are voluntarily in prostitution. But I see a much larger group of women forced there, victims. Shouldn't we be standing in front of those victims? I want to stand in front of those victims as a CDA. That's what I want to make policy on. And if that means that the women who volunteer can't get to work legally, then that's a choice I make because I put the protection of the women and girls who are vulnerable first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u122	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u123	Me and GroenLinks, we're in front of those victims, too. But not by forcing them into illegality, but by giving them rights and help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u124	Look at how that went over the years in Sweden. That's developing, too. You can see there's a lot less prostitution. The number of victims is decreasing. I often hear in this debate the argument that it will disappear into illegality. Yeah, guys, there's a lot of illegality already! I don't know, but with the arrival of the Internet, a lot of illegality has gone into it. Let's not close our eyes to that. And besides, I'm sorry: if the client can find the prostitute, then the police can, can't they? The police can focus. And we can, as we also see in France, deal with these human traffickers really well for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u125	Good. Then I'll go to Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u126	Following on from my colleague from GroenLinks, I would like to ask Mrs Kuik the following question. You're very concerned about these abuses. I think that's very important. But do you really believe that the abuses you just mentioned are all gone if we criminalize the purchase of sex immediately? Are they just gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u127	I don't have that illusion at all. No, I'm a realist in there. But when I see how many abuses there are now, how we've dealt with it now, that's outrageous. By legalization we wash a lot of wrongdoing white. We need to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u128	There are also other systems, for example the New Zealand model. My proposal is to have that checked out. If that proves that we have fewer abuses as a result, would you please move on to that model? Do you say: if this leads to less abuses and more transparency and visibility, then we are going to go down that road?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u129	I keep my eyes open and I look at everything. I see that in New Zealand the ratio between the population and the number of people working in prostitution is much greater than the number in Sweden. Those are also things we need to take with us. I have an open mind to see how we can protect women who are now in such a situation. But I hope D66 has an open look, too. I also hope that your list leader, Sigrid Kaag, will make a strong case for that, because I know she stands up very well for the position of women and girls. Maybe after the election we can do business on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u130	Finally, Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u131	In the end, of course, it's about those abuses. I think we can all find each other there, including in this room. You just don't see that a lot of people just go into illegality if you criminalize it. More women will then become even weaker and even more vulnerable. They're being blackmailed by pimps and you name it. You don't want to see that somehow. I call on you to look at that and make sure that we do not just turn left on that one model which is apparently being promoted and which I think you have some sort of blinders on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u132	I think the positions are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u133	I think I have really responded very well to GroenLinks, although I say it myself, when it comes to disappearing into illegality. That illegality is already there. Why don't you go talk to the women in there? Why don't you go talk to the paramedics? Go talk to the police. That illegality is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mrs. Kuik from the CDA just said something I totally agree with. She said, if the client can find the prostitute on the internet or whatever, then the police can, can't they? Can Mrs Kuik then explain why she is from the CDA, the Minister of Justice is also from the CDA, she is a coalition colleague and the Secretary of State is there why it is not possible to find the forced prostitute and the human dealer who is behind it if the customer can? Then why can't your own coalition parties do it? Why can't your Minister of Justice do it? Why can't your secretary of state handle it already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u135	I fully agree that it is now very difficult to deal with it. Why? Because we legalized it. A characteristic of trafficking in human beings is that repression is taking place. The victims with the stories are not presented on a platter. They won't say at the first interrogation with the police: yes, I'm forced here. They're scared. They're being blackmailed. That is why we need to look at other legislation. I see in France, for example, that the number of proceedings, because it is punishable, is not for women, but for those other figures...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u136	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u137	It makes it easier for them to pick up those figures and prove it. That's the problem. It's really hard to prove right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u138	I don't know if that's a causal link. You say that, but I don't know. Don't you think it might also be possible that there is a causal link between the fact that often young, vulnerable women are often women, but it can also be men who do not step forward and press charges and the fact that they know that the Public Prosecutor is barely prosecuting, and that if it continues, the judges will hardly impose high penalties? A girl like that knows that if she's gonna press charges, that human trafficker's gonna be back in a couple of months, and she's gonna be on her doorstep doing the most horrible things with that girl and her family. Don't you think there's a causal link there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u139	I think we should definitely look at that and also at the comfort of women to tell their story. Special detectives are already being deployed to start those conversations, because it's very traumatic to have to tell your story to someone else every time, with all the details of what happened to you. So it's a complex matter. It's also very difficult to prove it. And you are right: it is also very difficult to put those human traffickers behind bars. We need to make that easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u140	All right, Mr. Markuszower, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u141	In conclusion. Mrs. Kuik, you're from the coalition. You can pull your Minister Grapperhaus and the Secretary of State much harder than I can. Then do it! Pull the Minister and the Secretary of State on their jackets and make sure that they are prosecuted and punished more severely. Let the Minister and the Secretary of State speak with the Public Prosecutor and the judges, so that the sentences can be raised. Please support our proposal for minimum penalties, so that traffickers disappear under lock and key for at least 20 years and that for rapists it may be possible to implement for life. Will you help us with that? That really solves the problems. And of course, detectives need to facilitate conversations, but that's not really gonna help those girls. Those girls and those boys can only be supported if they know that their perpetrators stay in prison for a very long time, perhaps for life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u142	I agree that we need to ensure that these human traffickers are locked up for a long time and that the victims can count on them to be convicted. But how we've arranged it now makes it very difficult. Well, there's gotta be a different way. And yes, I'm also looking at the Secretary of State. How far are we with the legislation to at least take a few steps when it comes to increasing age? Because those are points that can help prevent young, vulnerable girls from getting into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u143	The secretary of state is from the VVD house. You said CDA, Mr. Markuszower. That was an accident. Oh, okay, you said coalition. But, of course, the Secretary of State is here on behalf of the Crown. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u144	I can tell I'm still feeling a little discomfort. Because Mrs Kuik constantly says that it is complex and then she says very simplistic: we take over the proposal and then it's done. But I don't think she wants to say that. She also sees that she does not have a majority now and at the same time she attacks the colleagues of D66, GroenLinks and perhaps also the SP about the fact that they do not go along with her morally right. That is not going to work in politics, because we are all incredibly struggling with how sex work is now arranged in the Netherlands and how to deal with the abuses. We see that much needs to be done. So I just want to get back to the political reality. Leave Sigrid Kaag out of it. Shall we at least start an open investigation now? That research must be wrong and disoriented from all kinds of preconceptions, ideologies or political strangleholds. It really needs to look at the Swedish model, the French model, the Irish model and the New Zealand model. Then, on the basis of facts and in line with the Dutch situation, we can come to a policy that is more than just an increase in the age of prostitution or a moral appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u145	I do like this debate, because it is about values. I'm in politics because I have ideals and I want to stand up for people who are in a bad situation. That is why I think this is a good point to discuss and exchange views and to connect together. I think a number of colleagues have indicated that they want to look at the different models. I say I want to do the same myself. I therefore think that this is a little faint, because I think this is a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u146	And now the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u147	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have already said that, of course, the CDA is open to looking at how we can better protect these women, even in Europe if you look at the situation and the consequences. Surely it cannot be the case that all kinds of developments are taking place in Europe and that we in the Netherlands will soon be attracting human traffickers through our policy? I think that's something we need to focus on our retina. So, yeah, I'm looking very closely at how we can improve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mrs. Chicken, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u149	I do not deny Mrs Kuik her value debate. That's not my point. The point is: if we have a bit of bad luck, we don't come up with anything concrete. Because we are not going to solve labour migration here today, we are not going to solve the problems in youth care and we are not going to solve the problem that we have too few detectives when it comes to trafficking in human beings, even though extra money has been allocated to them, including by the Christian Union and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u150	And the question is, Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u151	My question is: what specific message do we send to the Secretary of State today, so that we can have a debate in a year's time on the basis of new policies rather than just sticking to the value level? I'll give her that, but I want more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u152	Of course, I wasn't finished with my speech at all. So I would say: let me continue with that and then I will also come to that point. Mr. Chairman. I told you, it's the government's job to protect people. I, as a woman, but also my male colleagues, do not find it progressive that we in the Netherlands give men the right to buy sex. Prostitution is inequality between gender, but also economic inequality. A parliamentarians from France said it all but clearly: where is the glamour of ten to fifteen penetrations per day that women who are forced to be prostitutes, apparently for economic reasons, with dramatic consequences for health? I also speak to women who are willingly in it. Open conversations in which they, too, indicate what they see around them. The question is whether we focus on making prostitution possible for those few women who really want it voluntarily or whether it is our expensive duty to protect the women who are forced into this profession from coercion. In short, the CDA supports the initiative for the equality model. However, I also see that my coalition partners are not yet ready, two then, and opposition parties. That is why we have steps to take in the coalition agreement. I would like to propose that we also look in the Netherlands at how we can make it possible to introduce this model of equality, learning from all the things that have taken place in the countries in recent years. Finally: Natasha, young people of Exxpose, thank you for your initiative. I hear your call. Let's keep fighting together to stop the abuses in prostitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u154	Well, that's not the right thing to do. Mr Van Nispen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to congratulate the initiators of Exxpose. I was also at the offer of your petition in April 2019, a long time ago. They were indeed poignant stories and they are still when you read your pieces about the abuses, about the vulnerable people. I repeat it here: I also think that the lifting of the brothel ban did not bring what we expected at the time. In any case, it has not put an end to the abuses. There are many abuses. Much is going wrong, and we need to do something about it in every possible way. One of Mrs Kuik's last sentences was: we need to introduce the equality model. That is also what the citizens' initiative is advocating. Of course, that sounds like music to me. Putting in a model of equality, who wouldn't want to? Equality is one of the reasons why I went into politics. Only, if the core problem is inequality... I share the analysis that in many cases this will be the case. You say prostitution comes from inequality. I think that is the case in many cases, perhaps not in all cases. I want to stay away from that for a while, because I did not examine it myself and investigations contradict each other on that point. Do you have to ban prostitution when you say that prostitution often comes from inequality? Or should you address the source in all possible ways in the Netherlands and worldwide, namely combating inequality by ensuring good education, access to care, good housing for all and fair opportunities in the labour market? I find it difficult to ban one of the manifestations of inequality and then expect that you have solved the problem. I say immediately that the SP is not convinced that this is the right direction. However, I am in favour of looking into the advantages and disadvantages of different models and what we can learn from them in the Netherlands, as has been suggested by several colleagues. I am very much in favour of this, but I am not convinced in advance that a ban on prostitution will end the abuses. In fact, I think that it will be a part of the distance from sight, that it will be more underground and that it will not benefit vulnerable people at all. That's what I'm very worried about. I would like to hear the position of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I also have a question about labour migration. That point has also been mentioned a few times. It is true that many women from Eastern European countries work in Amsterdam. That raises the next question. I'll just say right away that I don't have the ready-made solution. That is not the time for this debate either, but I would like to put the question to the Secretary of State. Do we think it is desirable that many women from Eastern European countries come here to work for tourists from all over the world? Is that the position we want to have in the Netherlands? Isn't there an over-representation of vulnerable people in that group? Shouldn't we be looking specifically at that? Once again, together with the Christian Union, we have made many proposals to regulate labour migration. There is no proposal that solves this problem at once, but I do think we should name it here today. Again, we support an investigation into the advantages and disadvantages of different models. But until then, we have to do everything we can to see what we can do about the abuses that exist. Again, these abuses are there. We are not closing our eyes to that. Nobody does that around here. Everyone wants a world without human trafficking. It has to do, for example, with easy access for all and with the exit programmes, which have often been called for. The SP always supports that. We need to do much more with the initiative law that has been mentioned about the responsibility of customers who may suspect abuses. Mr President, I see that I have to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u156	We forgot the clock. I see you're eager to take advantage of that. That's okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u157	Well, that's not so bad. Yes, I'll finish. The SP has also often called attention to the much better use of criminal law. I am really disappointed in the performance of this cabinet, but also in that of the previous cabinet, when it comes to tackling trafficking in human beings. It's really disappointing. In the debates on trafficking in human beings, we find that Chamberwide. That is not a political difference of opinion. It's really disappointing. We can talk here about models and different rules, but we all agree that this is not enough, including from this cabinet. I'm very sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. I see you want a short suspension. Ten minutes? Yeah, that's fine. Then I'll suspend the meeting. Shall we make it 15 minutes? Is that better? Yeah? Then that's what we'll do. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u159	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I propose to allow two interruptions, which is actually four questions. You may decide whether you ask them in succession or whether you ask a question each time. So two interruptions in two or four questions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the initiators very much for their efforts and for the presentation in this Chamber today. I think Mrs Natasja Bos did a fantastic job. Also the other initiators who are here, Willemijn and Sara, compliments on what you have achieved. That is a huge achievement and it also requires a huge amount of perseverance to ensure from 2013 that you get enough signatures and then make sure that it comes on the agenda of the Dutch Parliament. I think that is a great achievement, for which I pay tribute. I would then like to congratulate Mr Bolkestein on his maiden speech. I have heard many maiden speeches in my previous position, but you have done so in a very good way and you have also managed to keep everyone's attention, which is always a very good performance. Good luck in your work here in this Chamber. I am convinced that we all share the view that no one should be forced into prostitution and that it is of the utmost importance that any form of exploitation, violence and coercion in this sector be prevented. But on the question of how best to deal with this, there are differences of opinion, including political issues, and that is not a secret issue. The Cabinet considers that the lifting of the brothel ban in 2000 does not provide sufficient guarantees for a safe and healthy sex industry. Several spokesmen have already said something about this today: it did not bring about what was expected in 2000. Policies and regulations have been locally invested since 2000 and therefore we see large differences in the approach that human traffickers benefit from. However, criminalising people who pay for sex or a total ban on prostitution is not the solution to the existing abuses either. Offering and asking for prostitution will not disappear by criminalising those who pay for sex. This has already been mentioned today. Instead, the activities will be more out of sight, with all the risks involved. I therefore take a negative view of Mrs Kuik's question to introduce the principle of equality. For example, research into sex work and violence from 2018 shows that sex workers working without a license or illegal activity are more likely to be involved in violence than sex workers working in the licensed sector. Trafficking in human beings, too, seems to me to be more common in the illegal circuit. But what is the solution? How do we protect the sex workers who are now disappearing in the shadows? We do this with more visibility, a stricter approach to abuses and a greater responsibility for the customer. That is why a new bill to regulate the sex sector has been made, the legislative proposal on regulation of sex work, which provides for a uniform licensing requirement. Both the sex companies and the individual prostitutes will soon have to be licensed. "Once again" is when the bill was adopted by both Chambers of the States-General and it also entered into force. Prostitutes get this license only after a test on self-reliance and voluntaryness. This is an immediate answer to Mr Markuszower's question, 21 years of age or older, in order to be able to obtain a licence. Customers who use the services of a prostitute without a license, so the prostitute who does not have a license, will soon be punishable. This also applies to those who allow illegal prostitution. With the law, we want to get a better view of the industry and, already at the front, create strong barriers for human traffickers. It is precisely this that will ensure that we can better prevent abuses and we can deal with them better and faster where they occur. If it is up to me and if it is up to the cabinet, there will be a legal industry in which only prostitutes who choose to work for themselves will be able to do their job safely and healthily. The bill is currently before the Council of State for advice and I hope to be able to send it to you for consideration as soon as possible as soon as the opinion is received. I hope it will come soon, and I am also prepared to ask if there is any speed of consultation at the Council of State, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u161	I was already walking forward when about the answer came to the question I was going to ask. Can the government promote, because I think it's there for a while...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u162	From July 13th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u163	June 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u164	July, July, July, July, July,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u165	Okay, so not very long now. But the Internet consultation was already done. So it's been going on for a long time. The Secretary of State knows. We heard the first plans in 2009. At the beginning of this cabinet period it was also said that the abuses in prostitution, the higher age limit and other points were really going to be addressed. We are almost already at the end of the period and we are still waiting for legislation. So from that impatience it would indeed be incredibly valuable to take the utmost urgency on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u166	I thank Mr Van der Staaij for that question, because I understand that question very well. I want to speed it up, too. From the beginning that I accepted this position, it was an important task for me. It's an agreement from the government agreement to live up to that. However, as the debate has shown here today, it is an issue which is widely debated. The results of the internet consultation were also very different. We had to take that into account when incorporating it into the bill. It hasn't been that easy. That is why it went to the Council of State on 13 July. I did not ask for an urgent opinion at the time, because the Council of State is extremely busy with all the urgent opinions on corona. I think you should be a little reasonable, but I'm gonna have to ask what's going on. I think they're busy; they also know it's important. I hope that as soon as it gets there, this Chamber will be able to deal with it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u167	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u168	In addition to this bill, I continue to pay attention to the social position of sex workers. Too often they are unable to claim benefits and services which are self-evident to other workers. And it has been put forward here today by several spokesmen: even in the corona crisis, the problems were popping up there. That is why I am currently working on creating a portal where sex workers can go with complaints and where the conversation between sex workers and bodies is facilitated. Finally, we strengthen the nationwide coverage network of exit programs for those who want to leave prostitution. From 1 January 2021, this is a structural scheme. After all, it remains important that every woman or man who wants to leave prostitution and chooses another future gets the support he or she needs. I am confident that with all these efforts we will be able to create a safe, healthy and visible industry where abuses belong to the past as much as possible. I hear that there is a lot of discussion and questions about the effects of different prostitution models in different countries and that there is a need for research. I'd like to get to that now. Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bouali, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Van Nispen, well, asked for this by a wide range of spokesmen. I also note that several international investigations have been carried out into individual prostitution models, but they often contradict each other. There is only a very sporadic comparison. So that is all a bit fragmentary and not systematic. That is why I agree that it would be a good idea to have an international comparative study which looks at existing models of prostitution and the effects and side effects they have on, among other things, the position of the sex worker and, of course, on trafficking in human beings. That must be a good and thorough investigation and it must also be speedy. But I'm not telling you anything new. Members also understand, of course, that if I give the order tomorrow, so to speak, it will not be ready the day after tomorrow. So one of those researches that's solid takes some time, but we can make it fast. In the meantime, I'll continue with the Law on Sex Work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u169	I hear the Secretary of State making a clear commitment here to a sound and thorough investigation. I would like to ask whether she would like to share the investigation with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. My second request is whether she would also like to make wide use of the various interest groups that are there, because today Exxpose is home, but there are of course others involved in carrying out that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u170	On both of Mrs Kuik's questions, I say: of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u171	Finishing, you won't see me here again. That also means that I do not see the notion of holding a second term or tabling a motion later, because if we see it that way, we can do it together. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u172	Okay. Mrs Van der Graaf, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u173	Then I'll ask what exactly the Secretary of State is thinking about, what should be the focus of that investigation. Does that focus on dealing with forced prostitution and trafficking in human beings? Should I understand that the Secretary of State is prepared to include the question put by the initiators in order to look at the influence of the demand side, including those countries that have introduced it, as is the case in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u174	I think there should be a thorough and thorough investigation. All kinds of questions, including the question that Mrs Van der Graaf now raises, will undoubtedly be involved, otherwise the research will be of little use. So it's going to be a wide-ranging, solid investigation, but at the same time I'm saying that very clearly in the case of this study, not a five-year study. We also need to have an investigation that works like this. For my part, of course, I can tell the researchers which direction to go or what to investigate, but at the same time those researchers themselves are the experts. They will definitely set their focus. But it's got to be a wide-ranging investigation with tempo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u175	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u176	Mr Van der Staaij raised the question of whether the points of the coalition agreement are going to reach the final stage as a matter of urgency. I have actually already answered that, namely that the bill is before the Council of State for advice and that it comes to your Chamber as soon as possible. Mr Bolkestein and Mrs Kuik also asked about this. Mr Bouali would then have asked a question about the social position of the sex workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u177	Then I have a question about the timetable, because we have now discussed that the Secretary of State hopes that we can still deal with the regulation of sex work in this cabinet period, both in the First and in the Lower House, I assume. In every debate we have on, for example, dealing with trafficking in human beings, the Chamber asks where that law is. At the same time, there will also be an urgent investigation. Mrs Kuik expressed the wish that there would be a post-election meeting, for example, so that a new cabinet could work on it. How does the Secretary of State view this affair? For apparently it does not expect the research to show a very different picture than the words which I think are worthy of mentioning, namely that the risk of prostitution disappearing more into illegality and so on. I said something about that, too. But the Secretary of State says: we will continue with the law and we want to introduce it as soon as possible, but at the same time we are open to new insights. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u178	In the coalition agreement it has been agreed that there will be a law which I have just referred to. I think it is my duty to ensure that it is achieved before the elections are held. At the same time, an investigation is being carried out. I just said that. I am entirely in favour of this, but at the same time I have said that this research is not there tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. If it's around the elections, it's pretty fast for a scientific investigation, but I can't guarantee that either. But before you have taken new measures from such a study and made new legislation or whatever, we are a whole end again. I think it is important because, first of all, it is an agreement from the government agreement that I have to honour, but above all because that agreement from the government agreement ensures that abuses can become a thing of the past, that there is at least better regulation with that law, that prostitutes can work safely and healthyly, and that the prostitutes, such as the customers, are punishable by the use of illegal prostitution. So I'm gonna do one thing and I'm not gonna leave the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u179	Thank you for that. No misunderstanding, I support that line. I think it's very good that that law comes to the Chamber and that we have that investigation. I have another question. I do hope that the law and the debate we are going to have on that law will not affect all the agreements we have already made on stepping up the fight against trafficking in human beings, the increase in the number of detectives, the search work, so really tackling and combating trafficking in human beings in every possible way... We were shocked that that had gone down. This is also recognised by the Secretary of State in the last debate. Of course, that should never have happened. Everything must now be done, whether there is a law or an investigation or whatever, to do what needs to be done basically to combat the abuses as quickly as possible. In addition, we must not hesitate for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u180	I'll get back to you in a minute. I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen on the point he refers to here. That is incredibly important and it must not stop, because trafficking in human beings is terrible. Mrs. Van der Graaf. Oh, I can't say! Sorry! I'm falling into my old role anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u181	I can imagine that very well. You've been President of the Supreme Court for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u182	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u183	No, it's really not a problem at all. Mrs Van der Graaf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u184	That went very naturally. I am pleased that this Secretary of State speaks so passionately about dealing with trafficking in human beings. Now in prostitution there is a very large gray group in that twilight area. The Secretary of State wants to have an investigation done. Mrs Kuik asks to speak to interest groups as well. For this group there is actually no interest organisation, so I would like to ask the Secretary of State to present this group and what would be best for that research very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u185	However, we must keep an eye on the fact that research is about examining the various international systems and looking at how they work, what the results are and so on. Of course, I also think it is very important to talk to the grey group that Mrs Van der Graaf mentions, but it is about those international regulations. We're gonna have to keep an eye on that. But I think it's important that we make sure that the researchers get in touch with it. How does that have to be arranged? I hope that by then there will be a representation or that they will have a certain approach to doing so. I do know that years ago there was an organization called The Red Thread. I don't know if it exists now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u186	I suspect the Scharlaken Cord.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u187	Okay... No, no, it used to be called different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u188	No, that's another one, The Red Thread.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u189	But that's for Mrs. Van der Graaf's time. It's been a while. But I'm sure researchers who take their research seriously will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u190	Mr Van den Berge. You were about to give him the floor, I just saw!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u191	No, no, no, I was just taking some air right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u192	Now it's gonna be hard for me to see which president I'm looking at! I'm glad the investigation's coming up. I have asked for this in my contribution. I have another question about the human trafficking approach. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to engage with organisations that assist refugees, such as Refugee Work and the Salvation Army, for example, to see what could be done to support victims of human trafficking who do not have residence status, for example because there is no threat of expulsion over their heads and because there is more cultural sensitivity in police teams when there is a report? Well, I won't mention all the things I think about. There are a lot of organisations that know a lot about this, but it would be good to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u193	I don't want to mix up two portfolios right now. I have to make that very clear. We are now talking about the citizens' initiative that has just been expressed by Natasja Bos. For signs of trafficking in human beings with asylum seekers reporting in the Netherlands, there is an approach. That is constantly being looked at, because that is a vulnerable group. We are constantly paying attention to this, but I do not want to go into it any further at the moment. I hear Mr Van den Berge's signal. I'll take that with me, but I'm not going to discuss it in detail, because then I'll mix two portfolios with each other, but I'll hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u194	I mix those wallets because I think they're very linked. For example, I hear from Refugee Work and Salvation Army that victims of human trafficking assisted by these organisations often do not dare to go to the police because they are afraid of the consequences, for example in their asylum procedure, so they are linked. If you want to deal with trafficking in human beings, you also have to make those people feel safe, so I hope the Secretary of State will take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u195	One comment: Mr Van den Berge will undoubtedly know that when an asylum seeker comes to the Netherlands and reports that he is a victim of trafficking in human beings, that is the 24-hour rule of temporary protection, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u197	I had arrived at Mr Bouali's question on strengthening the social position of prostitutes, combating stigma and so on. I take various measures to improve the position of sex workers and to help counter the stigma of sex work. Together with those involved, preparations are being made at the moment for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These can be agencies from all kinds of sectors: banks, municipalities, housing corporations, anything. In addition, I support the development of the Ugly Mugs platform, which should contribute to a secure industry. Following the symposium on the stigmatisation of sex work, which I organised last November, a broad alliance of different sex work organisations and other stakeholders emerged. This alliance is currently working on a multi-annual action programme to address the stigma of sex work and strengthen the position of prostitutes. I know that this will take a broad look at what should be improved in the different sectors. When that action plan is finished, I will discuss with the alliance the contribution I can make to it. I will also seek cooperation with my fellow executives of SZW and VWS. I now come to trafficking in human beings and exploitation. What is the government doing to tackle sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings? Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union has asked this question among other things. The programme Together against trafficking in human beings takes an integrated approach by various departments and partners in the field. We focus on the various forms of exploitation, one of which is sexual. We invest in preventing people from getting into an exploitation situation. We do this through various prevention initiatives, such as education in schools and training for certain professions. We are also committed to rapid alerting and helping victims of exploitation. Finally, of course, we are focusing on the detection and prosecution of perpetrators, both criminal and administrative. Mrs Van der Graaf asked another question: what has the Netherlands done to meet international obligations? In the Netherlands, we are active in all areas to meet the international obligations arising from the various conventions. We are doing this through the programme I have just mentioned: together against trafficking in human beings. In doing so, we are committed to fighting wrongdoing. The said EU Directive imposes obligations on prevention, victim assistance, detection and prosecution of trafficking in human beings. Article 18 (1) of that Directive requires Member States to provide for appropriate measures, such as education and training, to discourage and reduce demand for all forms of exploitation. But there is no obligation to discourage the purchase of sex. In the Netherlands prostitution is a legal profession. I've said something about that before. What we are going to do is regulate, control, assist in getting out and prevent abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u198	I must point out to the Secretary of State that the European directive also states that the international obligations impose on us that we must do everything we can to address the underlying demand for the cause of trafficking in human beings. That's what we need to focus on, and we need to stop it. We must prevent women from getting into prostitution. The European directive says that Member States must strengthen their policies to prevent trafficking in human beings, including measures to discourage demand. On that point, I wonder what the Netherlands has done. When I look at the answer from the Netherlands to the reviews that are made, the Netherlands says: we have the campaign Meld Crime Anonymous. But that cannot be the answer if we have listened to what has changed today and what is going on here? What has the Netherlands done to meet this international obligation to discourage demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u199	Mrs Van der Graaf is right about that. You can't just do that with a campaign. I hope Mrs Van der Graaf has confidence in the bill. The bill, the sex work law, says that a prostitute must work legally and have a license. The same goes for a sex institution, but now it's about the prostitute. This also means that the customer using an illegal prostitute, who is therefore not licensed, is punishable. I think that with these measures in the legislative proposal we are doing very well to meet what is contained in the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u200	Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u201	I think that is indeed a very important step. When I look at where the parties are in the debate, I think that is a very nice step towards finding a majority in this Chamber. However, I believe that the international treaties call for more. I would also like to know what the Netherlands has done so far and I would urge the Cabinet to see what we can do to stop the international demand that leads to trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u202	We have a National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking in the Netherlands, and we have it for a reason. It has to do its best to solve a huge problem, because it is a huge problem. But the Netherlands also invests in this: it has a National Rapporteur and also ensures that special training is given to the police and so on. Perhaps Mrs Van der Graaf will say in a moment: what is the point of training? I think it is incredibly important to recognise signs of trafficking in human beings, because we often do not even know that it is trafficking in human beings. And it is not all prostitution, as Mr Van den Berge has said: in the gardening industry and elsewhere, it is all prostitution. I cannot say it often enough: we are doing an enormous amount of work to combat trafficking in human beings and to deal with all the bad things that result from it. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings is working hard on this, and we are working with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u203	The Secretary of State says we're doing the best we can. However, 2% of the population of the Netherlands is caught, perhaps even less of the traffickers in the Netherlands, and then they get a very low sentence. So what exactly is it when the Secretary of State says we're doing our best? Because 98% of the human traffickers are whistling around in the Netherlands and justice is not bothering them. Even that 2%, which does get caught, goes back to prison after a few months of whistling. So I do not understand that and I would like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on the fact that only 2% will be caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u204	I understand Mr. Markuszower's heart cry. We all suspect there are a lot of human traffickers. There are, but in the figures, I shall let it be said that it does not. But it's complicated... that's an incredibly obscure word, that I'm afraid to use anymore... to deal with human traffickers. Because often they don't even sit here, they often go abroad. Those are organizations with all connections. And you don't want the last doll that just did that last errand. No, you want the big boys. That's very difficult. Then it's very difficult to get the evidence around. Mr Markuszower is a lawyer and he knows very well how criminal law works. You have to have all that ready to make sure someone can be convicted. That's why it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u205	Thanks for the answer. I understand it's complicated. That is why we, as PVV, say: do mix those two portfolios of yours with Mr Van den Berge and you said that you do not want to mix them and close them. Because a lot of these human traffickers are gangs from Eastern Europe, from Africa or from other very scary countries. So if you close those borders and just let people work here through an employment permit, it will solve a lot of problems. But the Secretary of State, the judicial system, does not tackle the human traffickers enough because it is so complicated and does not want to close the borders, so that new traffickers continue to enter our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u206	Two points to Mr Markuszower. He says the Secretary of State doesn't take on the human traffickers. That's not correct, because we're doing the best we can to get behind what we can get. I have just told you about the National Rapporteur and everything that we are doing. Mr Markuszower also knows government policy: we are not closing the borders. There was also a question from Mr Bolkestein. What about the police deployment on human trafficking? Has additional capacity led to better results? I believe that Mr Van den Berge has also asked a question about the impact of the sex detectives and how to deal with trafficking in human beings. The police's commitment to trafficking in human beings and vice is an important theme. That's really important. Minister Grapperhaus and I will keep you regularly informed of this. This autumn, your Chamber will be informed about, among other things, progress in recruiting capacity for the Foreign Police, Identification and Trafficking Division, better known as the AVIM. This is the result of the Segers/Asscher motion, which was adopted in your Chamber and which produced an additional 10 million, precisely for the fight against trafficking in human beings. The recruitment of the vice detectives starts after the summer. We've reported that before. The regular moments of accountability will also report on progress. Then there was a question from Mr Bolkestein and Mr Van Nispen. They asked whether the current wording of criminalisation could be improved. Indeed, Article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law is a complex article. It's not like you're saying to someone "gosh, read that for a second" and then he immediately realizes what it says. Research is being carried out in the framework of the Co-operation Programme against trafficking in human beings. We're investigating that. However, a legislative amendment must have added value to the implementation practice. I will inform your Chamber in November of this in the progress report on the Co-operation Programme against Trafficking in Human Beings. Then there was a question from Mr Markuszower about the firm approach to trafficking in human beings, the minimum age of 21 years and so on. I have already indicated that in the legislative proposal regulation sex work the age for the consents of the prostitutes goes to 21 years. I therefore believe that Mr Markuszower is well served. I am firmly committed to dealing with trafficking in human beings, together with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the municipalities, in that programme Together against trafficking in human beings, which I mentioned earlier. I just said something about minimum age. The criminalisation of the customer who uses the services of a suspected victim of trafficking in human beings is included in the initiative proposal of the members Segers, Kuik, Van Nispen and Kuik. That's in the First Chamber right now. I think there is still a further reply to that, but that is right there. But that's with a suspected victim of trafficking in human beings. A customer who uses the services, sex, where he may suspect that this is a victim of trafficking in human beings, is included in the initiative legislative proposal. But that's in the Upper House right now. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u207	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term. Oh, Mr Van Nispen has another question for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u208	Yes. Then I guess I can waive a second term. Maybe it's me, but I missed the answer to the question of whether there's going to be a specific look at labour migration. I raised the question as to whether we would like people from all over Europe to come here and offer their services to people around the world. Is that something that's being considered? Do we think that's a desirable situation? Because it's often about people in an extra vulnerable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u209	This is just outside the legislative proposal, apart from the initiative proposal, of which you are also one of the proposers. As far as trafficking in human beings is concerned, we are also looking at these other things. The idea is usually that human trafficking is prostitution and vice versa. No, I don't. On the contrary, we are looking at all these other things, such as abuse of labour migration and so on, because there is a lot of undiscovered trafficking in human beings that we think should be covered and that we can establish: boys, take a look; that is where trafficking in human beings is at stake. That is precisely what we are drawing attention to. So that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u210	That wasn't quite the answer I was looking for. However, that can of course happen in a debate. I am more concerned with the fact that a lot of human trafficking takes place among people in an extra vulnerable situation. The debate has been initiated by initiators who have pointed out the unequal situation. Of course, this is all the more true in the case of people who come from Eastern Europe for the sole purpose of earning many times more here than in the country where they come from. Sometimes there's nothing wrong with that. I'm just saying, do we think it's a desirable situation? That is quite a question of principle. It's also a complicated question. We have not solved it from today to tomorrow, also because of European rules. But I challenge the Secretary of State to think a little more deeply for once, perhaps that will not work in this debate................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u211	I'd like to think more deeply about it, but I can't right now. I can't tell you how much I'm gonna think. You mention something that it is indeed important to think deeply about, but I think that goes beyond the subject of this debate. I'm not gonna tell you, I've been thinking in six weeks. I can't. But I am glad that you are raising that point, because I think it is right that we should think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u212	Without requiring an immediate deadline or something like that: can I assume that this point will come back to one of the progress reports when that thought process has progressed? I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u213	Yes, but I have to say that this is not something that I say in the next letter that we have thought about. Of course, it may be that we've been thinking, but there's nothing to follow. I think we should take a serious look at this. You raise a point that I say: I do not know what the outcome of the reflection will be. I think it is good to think about it and more than I can and will not say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u214	Okay. Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. I'll check my list of speakers. Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union, is the first speaker. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u215	Do I have a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u216	You have a third of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u217	Oh, one third of the time. Very good. I look back on a very good debate, in which we as a Chamber may have come a step further...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u218	We need to take care of the clock, because otherwise it's not right. He's got to be in his 20s at one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u219	The clock is running all the time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u220	No, we'll just do it again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have had a good debate which was also quite fundamental and touched on what it really should be about. I would like to thank colleagues for the way in which we have been able to talk about this with each other. I would very much like to stress that I like the fact that it seems that we are getting a step further by recognising that what is going on in the Netherlands is simply not going well and that perhaps we should look at it with a different pair of glasses. I thank the Secretary of State for that. Thank you to the initiators for having achieved this today. I would like to table a motion to make it really clear how the Netherlands is fulfilling the international obligations laid down in the Treaties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the citizens' initiative "I am priceless";]] [[Whereas international conventions require measures to discourage, inter alia, the demand for trafficking in human beings and to combat prostitution of women and trafficking in women;]] [[having regard to Articles 5 and 6 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and Recommendation 19 of the United Nations Committee of the same name;]] [[having regard to Decisions 25, 26 and 18 of the EU Directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims thereof;]] [[Whereas Article 5 of the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings;]] [[Whereas Article 9 of the Palermo Protocol;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear how the obligations arising from these international conventions are implemented and what steps can still be taken in this respect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35484-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u222	Madam President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer. We had a debate today on the citizens' initiative 'I am priceless'. We have the citizens' initiative: it is allowed within the rules of the Chamber if a decision has not been taken in the past period. That is why I think it is right to make a specific motion on what this citizens' initiative is proposing, namely to criminalise the purchase of sex. Since that is also in line with how we as a SGP stand in this regard, I would like to table the next motion so that the Chamber can also give its opinion on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Citizens' Initiative "I am priceless" proposes to criminalise the purchase of sex;]] [[Whereas evaluations carried out by other countries where this has been introduced show that this is very helpful in preventing exploitation of people and combating trafficking in human beings;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to criminalise the purchase of sex in line with the citizens' initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35484-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mr Bolkestein has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering my three questions. I'm not filing any motions. I just want to make a point. The debate went much further than I had thought, on a subject on which we seem to agree 90%. Then it's too bad if we zoom in on the parts we disagree on. Another thing that struck me is that we expect quite a lot from the law regulation sex work. It's been postponed a lot. There have been many previous versions of this. I know, although I've only been walking with you for two months. It now feels a little bit like we want to do the whole discussion again and like we want to see again which model actually works. That's actually always been the problem that still doesn't have that law. I am very pleased with the commitment to a study or a competition, but I hope that will not lead to further delays. I also hope that the CDA and the Christian Union will continue to fully support the current policy of regulation and thus also support the forthcoming Law on regulation of sex work. I see nodding. No, I see an interruption in my first debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u226	Yes, a short question, Mrs. Van der Graaf. You provoked him, Mr. Bolkestein.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u227	Mr Bolkestein, of course congratulations on your maiden speech and I hope for a nice cooperation in this Chamber, but the Christian Union has never supported regulation. We voted against the lifting of the whorehouse ban. We do, however, agree that there will be a law to protect the prostitutes and raise their age. So I support you in that appeal and I also call on the Secretary of State to come up with it as soon as possible, because we needed that law 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u228	It remains difficult to oppose regulation and, at the same time, sex work for the Law. But we'll see about that, hopefully soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u229	Thank you, Mr. Bolkestein. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u230	Mr. Chairman. In any case, I very much agree with Mr Van der Graaf on one thing: I too look back on a very good debate. It was, of course, a very ideological debate. We will not agree with all parties in the Chamber on what we consider morale of sex work. But I do feel that we are taking another step forward. I'm glad that competition's coming up. I hope that we can really see how we can achieve a good Dutch approach, a Dutch model and how we can best choose between how other countries do it. I also hope that by doing so, the authors of the citizens' initiative, whom I would like once again to thank for their involvement, will be able to be satisfied with this debate. And even though you, I think, will not quite get what you want, I hope it will do justice to your wish and your commitment. Finally, I hope that I have just pointed this out a few times in the inter-ruption debates I have heard from a number of colleagues here, from a number of parties, the same passion that I am going to hear in the asylum and migration debates in this debate on the victims of trafficking in human beings. Then we are talking about all those victims of trafficking who do not yet have a residence permit and are put in the cold by the policy of this cabinet. I hope that we will find those parties by our side. To assist victims of trafficking in human beings: yes, but not only in this debate, but always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u231	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. Mr. Bouali. I thought he was gonna wake up from yesterday. I saw you look. Mr. Markuszower. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u232	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators once again. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I'm glad there's a wide-ranging investigation going on. My question is: is there any explicit consideration of the market, its reduction and its impact on women? That's important. I also agree with Mr Van Nispen's question about this market, about the fact that everyone is being used everywhere, especially in this area. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that trauma, addiction and exploitation are incomparablely more common in the prostitution sector than in any other sector;]] [[noting that a large proportion of women in the prostitution sector in the Netherlands are women from poor regions of Eastern Europe;]] [[Considering the success of a system of criminalising sex buying and reducing prostitution and associated exploitation in Scandinavian countries;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the equality model, which criminalises sex buying, can be introduced in the Netherlands, taking into account lessons learned from countries that have already introduced the equality model, and to inform the Court of Justice about it in spring 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35484-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. In any case, we must copy and distribute all the motions relating to the new directives. So we have to wait five minutes for that. But I'm also looking at the Secretary of State. Five minutes? Ten minutes? We're done with the second term. We await the motions, which are copied and distributed. Five minutes? Okay. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u234	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u235	Mr President, thank you. As regards Mrs Van der Graaf's motion to item No. 2: I have just discussed this issue extensively in the exchange of views with Mrs Van der Graaf. I answered that question. In the Netherlands, we are active in all areas to meet the international obligations arising from the various conventions. That's what we do by treaty. We also meet the international questions that are being asked about this. The approach to trafficking in human beings is shaped, among other things, by the Co-operation Programme against Trafficking in Human Beings; in the case of prostitution, among other things through the Sex Work Act, the Bill, and exit programs. On all these subjects, your Chamber will be regularly informed. The bill is on its way, let's say carefully. Therefore, I advise against the motion. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u236	Mrs Van der Graaf, a brief question on your motion on item No. Two?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u237	What I'm asking for is to really make it clear what those obligations look like. There are all explanations of these treaties. Will the Secretary of State make that clear to us and put it next to it whether and how the Netherlands meets it? That is not clear for the Christian Union at the moment. I read the responses to the reviews that are being made internationally. Then we refer to one or two campaigns, but I'm really looking for a little more floor on that question. I hope, therefore, that the cabinet will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u238	I just gave my opinion on the motion. I said that, in an earlier exchange of views with Mrs Van der Graaf, I discussed in detail the way in which the Netherlands complies with the Treaties and the fact that we comply with them. So I stand by the view that I should discourage the motion. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 3. I have told your Chamber in detail how I view prostitution policy. I'm moving on and I'm busy with the law regulation sex work. I hope he gets to your room as soon as possible. I am also going to investigate the various models as requested by your Chamber, a request that I would like to follow up. I therefore advise against Mr Van der Staaij's motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 4. That is a bit of a combination: Mrs Kuik is asking for an investigation into the model of equality in which buying sex is punishable. In fact, the answer I gave to Mr Van der Staaij is that I will continue with the Law on the regulation of sex work. So I have to give a negative answer to this too. Mrs Kuik also asked to look at the lessons learned from other countries. That's the investigation I promised. So I have to discourage the motion for a resolution for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u239	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u240	The motions tabled, the proposals that have been made, will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State. I would also, of course, like to thank the Members. I think we have had a nice, dignified debate. I would particularly like to thank the initiators, Stichting Exxpose. In particular, I would like to thank Natasja Bos for her passionate contribution here behind the cathedral. Like I said, we're going to vote next Tuesday. I will then inform you about the outcome of the votes. Very, very good luck with your work. Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:30. Then we'll vote.
