ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 35054, the Supplementary Act Sound Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for the questions they have asked. I would actually suggest that they should be dealt with in a number of cubes. The first block, generally, is about the system. Then there's a block on noise regulation. There are questions about the standards of the World Health Organisation, peak noise and the DSO. Then a separate block about accumulation and sources and then another block. It includes the Crisis and Recovery Act and nitrogen. And then a block about monitoring and implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u4	And your proposal is to do the interruptions at the end of the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u5	That would be very nice, because then we have all the questions that relate to that block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u6	Can the spokesmen agree with this proposal? Yeah? Fine. Mr. Rietkerk, too? That's how we're gonna do it. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u7	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Supplementary Laws soil and sound. At the same time as a step towards the system of the Environmental Act, the sound regulation is modernised in terms of content, as before for the national infrastructure. The essence of this was already decided in Swung-2 legislation. This has already been mentioned by some of your members. In this sense, this transposition is not political, but rather modernisation of Swung-1. Features of this modernisation are simplification and a more unambiguous standard framework, while at the same time strengthening protection against gradual noise increase through structural monitoring and weighing measures, including for decentralised infrastructure and industrial sites. This is, of course, an important framework for the different levels of government. In the period following the public consultation on the decision, extensive discussions were held with the umbrella bodies, in particular on the feasibility aspects. The talks with the domes have led to a positive result. People's health demands extra attention. We're building high-load locations. By bringing sound to the front of the planning process, good solutions can be found. The simplification of the framework of standards naturally leads to pluses and mines, but the mines generally relate to situations which are not very common at national level, such as new construction along municipal roads outside the built-up area. After all, many of the large housing projects take shape within the built-up area and by the way, a sign has been moved quickly. The simplification of the framework of standards is accompanied by other improvements, some of which have been referred to by some of your Members. This concerns in particular the accumulation of noise from all relevant sources in the application of the indoor values, which provides better protection against sleep disturbance, the accumulation of noise from similar sources, thus improving the protection of, for example, road crossings, monitoring noise development and weighing measures. I will come to specific questions on this later. The monitoring of sound development shall take place at the sound production ceilings and the basic noise emission. This is a major improvement over the Noise Act, which had no control over noise increase due to gradual traffic growth: the enforcement hole referred to by your colleague Crone. All in all, RIVM has made a table in which they indicate the equivalence of the level of protection. Then we see that some 160,000 people in the Netherlands are improving with this new protection. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important to say something about the ILT report, which was referred to yesterday in an article, at the beginning of this debate. A few questions have also been asked about this; Mr Verkerk and Mr Janssen of the SP asked questions about it. The ILT report is a bundling of older supervisory signals, partly from the time that previous legislation was only just in force. The report deals with the extent to which municipalities have correctly incorporated the frameworks of the Empire into their land use plans, in order to safeguard national interests. On parts, this guarantee was certainly likely to be improved. Good assurance starts with clarity towards co-governments about what they have to comply with. The Environment Act improves that clarity. All the rules of instruction are combined, the rules themselves are clarified and their digital accessibility is improved. This applies both to the system as a whole and to the supplemental track noise, so I expect these improvements to contribute to solving it. In the letter I sent to you today, which, of course, could only be sent this morning, also in view of the request, I have indicated on the various sections on which the ILT has addressed in its summary report how the points of interest have been assessed in recent years and where necessary any adjustments have been made in the Environment Act to address precisely those problems. GroenLinks had a question about the basic noise emission. Is there any obligation in that? The basic noise emission monitors a gradual increase in noise due to traffic growth, to close the so-called "maintaining hole" of the Noise Act. If noise increases by 1.5 dB or more, the municipality must weigh measures. If this increase leads to an exceedance of the limit value and the inner value, action is also required. In the end, therefore, there may also be an obligation arising from that BGE. The Labour Party asked: what are we doing now to help people who are already suffering from that enforcement hole, the people who are actually in it? The new rules will therefore ensure that the enforcement hole is closed in the future. But now, when the new rules are introduced, we are also going to clean up the existing bottlenecks. At the expense of the Empire, measures are taken to reduce noise in these homes. Mr Verkerk asked: how does the Minister assess the different interests and roles in relation to noise? In the case of noise, of course, there is the importance of protecting citizens and, on the other hand, the importance of things such as mobility and activity. In general, these two are also in the interests of citizens. For large sound sources, such as provincial roads and national roads, we separate the roles. The source manager shall be given a sound production ceiling with a clearly delimited part of the sound space. For the rest, it is up to the municipalities to weigh the different interests. The environmental vision is now, unlike the structural vision, also about the environment, and therefore also about noise. A number of you have also referred to this. This brings interests to the table early on, so they can be taken well. Wherever there may be tightness, it can also be divided. The Environment Act requires municipalities to involve health more strongly in their deliberations. And the program Getting started with the Environment Act helps municipalities to apply the Environment Act on this point. The VVD and the Christian Union asked: can the minister indicate how she weighs that balance between protecting and exploiting? Many standards in the environmental law system have been taken over from current law, but the system has been simplified, as I have just said. RIVM has assessed the environmental impacts of the four AMvBs. It is therefore concluded that the system can provide an equivalent level of protection, depending on implementation practice. A similar conclusion was drawn by RIVM on the Supplementary Decision sound in September 2019. I just gave you some figures of that. For the balancing area, the Environmental Act contains safeguards in the form of instructional rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision and the Supplementary Decision, such as adding standard values and limit values for noise from roads, railways and industrial sites to the Bkl. So within the bandwidth, there is room for consideration. In this context, I believe that the Labour Party has set out how it is possible to talk about borders on the one hand and on the other hand. That is because this discretion is given within the limits laid down in the standards and rules of instruction. Mr Rietkerk asked: how does the Minister see the combination of tasks for environmental services and the extra effort in relation to the recently launched VTH course? The tasks of the environmental services are now regulated in the Environmental Law Decision as part of the VTH system. These tasks for the environmental services, and the other rules, are taken over under the Environmental Act. The same applies to the VTH course. So the basic tasks under the Environmental Act are in line with the current basic tasks package. There is therefore no additional effort from the environmental services. The same applies to noise tasks. However, I would like to focus on improving the implementation of the VTH system, such as better knowledge sharing and knowledge sharing between environmental services when it comes to new developments. As a system responsible for the VTH system, I intend to set up an independent committee and ask this committee how we will ensure a future-proof VTH system in relation to our challenges. So this is not the independent committee for the Environment Act, but really a specific committee for the VTH system. I have already informed the House of Representatives of my intention. This has been decided in such a way as to follow the biennial evaluation of the VTH system. That evaluation actually concludes that the system is in place, but that it can be improved on some points. I thought it would be a good idea for an independent committee to advise us on how this could be strengthened. And knowledge sharing is definitely part of that. Mr Janssen also asked about the balance between the protection of citizens and the space for business. Of course, we have an eye for that. When companies want to start new activities or expand existing ones, they have to comply with the rules of the environmental plan. The environmental plan will be the central instrument for weighing interests. There may also be a need for permits. The competent authority shall assess the application. Citizens are therefore never directly opposed to companies, because the authority is between them and also weighs the interests of the citizens. Legal protection does not change under the Environment Act either. However, participation is strengthened in a number of areas. The Labour Party also tabled a motion on this subject during the debate on the Environment Act. Under the Environmental Act, applicants for environmental permits must indicate if they have involved residents. In addition, the participation around the environmental plan has been strengthened. We discussed this extensively last week. Participation is a plus on the legal protection that there was and is there, and so it also protects the citizens. I come to the regional industrial sites. Both the CDA and the SP have asked why it is not immediately regulated that the province is the competent authority for regional industrial sites. And when will this be clear? In line with the principle of "decentral, unless," the primate was initially deposited with the municipality. For regional industrial sites this is different from under the Noise Act. There was a top-down approach. The province was able to exercise jurisdiction. The approach in the Supplementary Act is initially bottom-up. If it is more efficient, the municipality can ask the province to take over that role. The change in this division in favour of the province affects the position of the municipality. But I also understand the question of the CDA on this point. And I also raised that with IPO and VNG. They are therefore in agreement whether or not the original allocation of powers under the Noise Act is preferable. I have indicated that this is no objection to the Empire. If the domes agree on this in the short term, I am prepared to include it in the forthcoming IenW Collection Act. So that will also be laid down by law. The Supplementary Act therefore does not have to wait for this. Nothing will go wrong if this is not ready when the Environmental Act is implemented, because the transitional law already provides that the provinces for regional industrial sites set the first noise production ceilings, because the provinces already have the necessary information. So in the first instance this is determined by the provinces and in the meantime the domes can discuss further together. And if necessary, we can also legally anchor that. The VVD and the Christian Union asked if we could discuss the latest results of the administrative consultation with the umbrella organisations last February. We went through the arrangements with each other once again. The VNG and the UvW have also wholeheartedly endorsed the agreements in the administrative consultation. Monitoring will focus on the new elements in the noise rules. This includes the noise production ceilings for the provincial roads, based on the GPPs already available for the national roads. During that administrative consultation, the IPO requested further attention to the instructions, rules for the GPPs and the location of reference points. Monitoring will, of course, also focus on this. They also asked what the substantive guarantees are for the quality of the environmental vision and the environmental regulation. Both are subject to the general obligation to strike a balance between protection and exploitation. For both there are procedural requirements that contribute to quality. Both shall be determined by the representative body. There is an open preparation procedure. The minimum content of the environmental vision is regulated by law. In addition, three important environmental principles have been transposed. The environmental regulation also includes a number of substantive instructional rules, for example in the areas of nature, cultural heritage and drinking water supply. Of course, there is then quality assurance through the democratic process of the city council, provincial states and the participation process. And if you refer to the ILT report, inter-administrative supervision also applies. However, I believe that we will be able to talk about this briefly in the fourth term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u8	Mr. Verkerk is standing by the interrupting microphone, but we agreed to keep the interruptions until the end of the blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u9	This was the last answer in this section, Mr President. The cube is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u10	Mr. Verkerk, that was perfect timing. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u11	Sorry, chairman. I didn't get that. The Minister referred to the consultations with IPO and VNG on 4 February. Have all the technical details been agreed and settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u12	There are currently no outstanding points with both domes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u13	Maybe I'm early with my question. The Minister mentioned the noise production ceilings several times. Will she come back to that later and can I ask my specific questions about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u15	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u16	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u17	The Minister refers to the choice of jurisdiction in respect of industrial areas in the municipality or province. She says they're gonna talk to each other. Kind of reminds me of the turkey and Christmas. What's the Minister's position on that? I don't think anyone wants to go back to some kind of hierarchical jurisdiction where the county is in charge, blah, blah. But I would feel for some kind of equivalence. The province guarantees good consultation and can still make decisions at the end if necessary. If it only happens at the request of the municipalities, then we must ask them to give up powers. I wouldn't have done it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u18	This statement by Mr Crone illustrates precisely why I think it is important for the domes together to discuss further how they see this balance. He outlined that we should not go back to a tight hierarchical division of powers. At the same time, it is also recognised that there is sometimes a real interest in organising it in this way. That is why I would like to leave it to the proper consultations between the domes at this very moment. They asked me for that space. I'd be happy to give it to them. I have just said to Mr Rietkerk that the solution they find can still be enshrined in the law, if that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u19	Mr Verkerk is coming to the interrupting microphone at a rapid pace. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u20	I have another question for the Minister. She said about the balance between protection and exploitation that RIVM states that the system can offer an equivalent level of protection. I understand that there's the word "can." I would be very pleased if the word "will" was there, and then the average. Could the Minister say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u21	Sure. Because there is a balancing room, you can never guarantee that everyone at every location will always be the same. If you're going to make a determination, you have to be able to guarantee it. It is of course important to know what overall is the assessment of RIVM's effects of the different buttons. On 24 August 2018, an RIVM study was conducted with conclusions on the equivalence of the level of protection based on the design of the Supplementary Decision sound. It looked at standard values, internal values, limit values, monitoring and enforcement, 30 km zones, accumulation and low noise facades. The RIVM has made the sum of what this would mean on average for improvement or deterioration. The reduction in the number of severely hampered people was above 200,000. For 10,000 hindered people, there was a possible deterioration. This shows that with this law many people are better protected, but it always depends on the specific situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u22	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u23	Then I start with the second block, which contains a number of substantive questions. Mr Crone had a question about the mopeds. We all know the situation that you can hear a crackling moped or motorbike coming along that will lift up while you are really sleeping. I live in a street like this. It would be nice if we could get rid of all that sort of thing with this law, but I'm afraid I can't promise that. Enforcement is carried out on complaints or detected high noise levels. On stage: if you get caught by the police, you will of course get a fine. That is certainly important. So I'm afraid we're still dependent on that. GroenLinks asked questions about the sound-low façade in housing. The question was what exactly is meant by that consideration. What does that really do in practice? In fact, it amounts to an obligation to state reasons. It is an obligation to state reasons for taking or not taking additional measures. A sound-low façade is a relatively quiet façade. It is well known that this is a good compensation for a heavy-duty façade. That is in the interests of health. Therefore, the supplementary decision requires that the health importance of the sound-low façade on the other side should be weighed at higher noise levels on the façade. Can you or can you not realize that? Is there or isn't there? This is therefore part of the measures that need to be taken in order to serve the health interest in a proper way. I hope that will clarify what is in the explanatory statement. Mr Janssen asked for peak levels. Mrs Moonen also asked for peak levels. The Quality of Living Environment Decision provides for activities outside industrial sites that the noise rules in the environmental plan are to ensure an acceptable noise from those activities on residential premises. The same goes for peak noise. The Supplementary Decision sets average annual noise standards for roads, railways and industrial sites. Those standards include the fact that rail noise, for example, consists of peak noise. There won't be any trains coming by and then in one go. In addition, the municipality can always include rules on peak noises from specific activities in the industrial site environment plan, if necessary. So that's the possibility for the municipality. Mrs Moonen asked for specific attention for people who sleep during the day. The Quality of Living Environment Decision provides that the noise of activities must be acceptable. The same applies to peak sounds during the day. In general peak noises during the day do not cause discomfort or sleep disturbance. Anyway, Mrs. Moonen specifically asked for attention for people who sleep during the day. Municipalities can draw up customized rules at a special location. The rules don't stand in the way of that. We come in response to the Schonis motion with a letter on the WTO standards report. I will see if I can say more in that letter about those peak standards in relation to sleep disturbance, for people who depend on it during the day. I have nothing to say about this now but that the municipality can do it, but it might be nice to look at it a little more carefully. The Labour Party asked about the preventive effect of noise production ceilings. The new system with sound production ceilings is indeed preventive. When noise increases, action is needed, such as the introduction of noise reducing measures. National roads and main railways have been regulated with noise production ceilings since 2012. So we also have examples of this preventive effect. How does that work? In 2018, for example, 114 kilometers of silent asphalt were constructed by Rijkswaterstaat to prevent noise production ceilings from being exceeded. That's how you see this system works. The Christian Union asks whether we intend to allow the reduction of noise production ceilings to be accompanied by a reduction in standards. In my opinion, the question was: can the standards be adjusted downwards if there is sound space? The sound production ceilings record the sound usage space for the source. So that is separate from the standards on the houses. If, on the basis of the WTO report, we say together that we should still strive for a different noise level, then of course we will first have a proposal and a more detailed policy balance, but they could indeed lead to this. I'll be back to innovations in a minute. That was a question from Mr Janssen. It says that innovations can also lead to quieter traffic through silent tyres, quieter road surfaces, quieter trains and quieter rail constructions. They're all working hard on that, too. Once every five years, the answer to both of you is whether innovations give rise to lower noise production ceilings. This consideration is also reflected in an action plan of noise drawn up every five years in the framework of the EU Environment Noise Directive. Of course, the WTO report provides an additional context for this consideration. Then Mr Crone asked if the noise maps were ready and readable on time. Since 2007, municipalities, provinces and the Empire have been producing noise maps and action plans under the said EU Directive. In general, these are delivered in good time. InfoMil also helps governments implement the Directive and monitors progress. Most governments adhere well to the guidelines for the layout of these cards, making them readable and comparable, which, of course, is also important for legal certainty. When is the Central Provision Noise data available? The DSO does not yet provide the basic level for digital support of the noise rules, but of course we want to go there. That's why the Central Supply Sound Data is being developed, the CVGG. That's what RIVM does on behalf of IenW. The CVGG is being built this year. In the second half of this year we are going to test with data that is already available. Upon entry into force of the Environment Act, including the supplemental traces, the CVGG will be ready for use. A link to the CVGG is then included in the DSO. Then both the VVD and GroenLinks asked about WHO standards. As I have just indicated, the Schonis motion has been adopted in the House of Representatives. In response, RIVM is working on an examination of the WHO's recommendations and their possible consequences for national laws and regulations. With the supplement decision, the Swung-2 breakdowns are implemented politically neutrally, but the Environment Act is of course not a system that is fixed for eternity. Last week, we exchanged that widely. We are converting it to a new system, but that does not, of course, stop policy-making. If, therefore, new insights into this legislative system require further changes, this is possible. It is precisely thanks to the system of the Environment Act that this is easier than in the old legislation. We now work more with AMvBs. This requires a new policy-based process of change with the corresponding careful procedure, political consultation, review, internet consultation, parliamentary involvement and so on. I liked the reference to the horse carriages. I know the example of the mayor of Paris who was worried: what if everyone gets richer and has enough money to buy horse and cart? What are we supposed to do with the dung? Now I don't know if the clattering sound of the car wheels and the horse hooves over the cobblestones was so much less sound than the cars that came. In any case, this shows that innovations solve some of the problems, but new challenges sometimes arise. In the Climate Agreement, we are addressing one of the challenges: noise and emissions from car mobility. Agreements have been made on speeding up the transition to zero-emission mobility. I certainly recognize myself in the picture of the booming diesel bus versus the silent hydrogen or electric bus. When it comes to reducing vehicle emissions, the first thing to do is to use electric transport, both by plug and hydrogen. In addition to the environmental impacts, this also has a positive effect on noise, although electric cars also appear to make noise through, for example, tyres. Within cities the transition is accelerated by the introduction of zero emission zones by 2025. European standards also contribute to the transition to electric transport. For the sake of clarity, those zero emission zones apply to transport, not passenger cars. To accelerate this transition, there will also be a purchase subsidy for new and second-hand electric cars. A purchase subsidy for electric vans is also being developed. We encourage the development of zero-emission cars through the Demonstration Scheme Climate Technologies and Innovations in Transport, DKTI. Investments in electric vehicles can partly deduct businesses thanks to the environmental investment deduction. Thus, in many places and ways in the context of the Climate Agreement, work is being carried out to promote silent transport. Mr President, I have come to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u24	I heard the Minister talk about noise production ceilings and innovation. She mentioned roads, trains and so on. My question was more: what happens at industrial sites? They are constantly evolving. What happens there when new best available techniques are prescribed? Will they then participate in the five-yearly evaluation or will the profits achieved by the best available techniques go to the living environment? Is that a kind of dome that is constantly being filled from the thought: there can be more industry? Is that ceiling refilled every time? I am particularly concerned about this industry, because we are already dealing with this problem in practice. My question is how to do that under those noise production ceilings, apart from that nesting noise. But maybe that's gonna happen later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u25	Since sound is now of course part of the integral balance, the latest insights into the desirable noise load can also be reviewed to see if we want to fill that space by dividing the different sources of noise. People are awake not only from industrial noise, but also from the combination of industrial noise, traffic noise and so on. What matters for people's health is that noise levels are reduced. That's what helps their health, a little bit separate from the source of that sound. In that sense, of course, there is a landing in it. The reduction always makes a contribution, wherever that sound comes from. Then it is up to the competent authority to determine to what extent the noise ceilings, from industry, should be further reduced in the consideration of all interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u26	I'm just trying to follow that. Investment in industrial sites is, of course, a concrete question of a road nearby. So be it. Those roads don't run on permits. Car mobility and trains are not things that change every year. Innovations in industry are moving much faster. There, therefore, the best available techniques lead to more profit faster. If that all ends up in a pile, you could also say: more cars could be driving, because the industry has become a bit quieter. That is a problem in the current system. Does the profits of innovations now benefit the living environment or is that dome fixed and can it always be filled with more and more industry? I'm really looking for the answer to that. And that also has an enforcement component. My question is this: if you have the dome idea that the dome can be filled all the time, how are you going to exceed it with individual companies and say, for example, that it doesn't matter for them that they made more noise, because the neighbor just happened to stop? Are you going to appeal to individual companies or are you going to have to make the whole dome calculation first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u27	Of course, that depends on the type of permit that has been issued. If there's a permit for a certain noise load and you go over it as a company, it can just be maintained. If a dome permit has been issued for a certain sound production on the industrial site, that will be weighed differently. In its entirety, you can therefore, as competent authority, direct the degree of noise load that exists within the consideration space. It's limited, as I just said. It is within that discretion for the competent authority to determine whether it wants to use that space or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u28	I would also like to refer explicitly to green gas as quieter transport, i.e. electric transport and hydrogen transport. The minister didn't. I have two more questions. The Minister says that there is maintenance, but I would like to ask for a more active attitude. My second question may not have been formulated sharply enough, but may a municipality say: I am going to ensure that in that area, for example the built-up area, only electrically is allowed, because then I can build more there? That's where the housing needs are, of course. Now we can also say: you can only drive 30 kilometers per hour for safety and noise reasons. Couldn't that also be for "there only silent cars"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u29	There is currently a process of harmonization of environmental zones. There is the possibility of setting up environmental zones for, for example, categories of cars. A further tightening of this is foreseen in the future. Then a municipality can decide for itself where an environmental zone is to be built and how big it will be. In addition, there is already the possibility of simply closing a given area for motorised transport with the exception of vehicles specifically authorised there. The municipality can therefore also use this as an instrument. She can already create sound space for housing. When giving space for parking spaces and so on, you can of course also control the extent to which cars can enter the district. There are also examples of neighbourhoods with a very low parking standard where partial cars provide mobility, for example if it is really very urban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u30	My question concerns acceptable noise levels. You just talked about that, Minister. My first question was: are municipalities sufficiently able to weigh what are really acceptable noise levels, including in relation to public health? Then we'll ask a lot of questions. I would like the Minister's view on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u31	There is scope for consideration within clear health protection frameworks. As long as the municipality remains within these frameworks, it remains within the framework of health and therefore has no unacceptable effect, otherwise these frameworks and standards would not have been set. In addition, the explanatory memorandum contains the Miedema table. It indicates that in case of a necessary deviation in the motivation you say what the consequences are. This support is thus also provided in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u32	The Minister just said that the World Health Organisation's report will be given a separate lead with parliamentary treatment. I get that. However, I think it would be a good idea to name today what the VVD Group is concerned about. If this advice leads to a tightening of the rules on noise, there will eventually be some kind of obstacle to inner city developments, especially for cities seeking space within the city. If these rules are tightened, there will be major problems for the quick construction of homes for our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u33	These are precisely the aspects that need to be taken into account in a policy-based assessment. This is indeed an aspect which must be taken into account: to what extent has traffic become quieter or are the possibilities such that construction can continue? To what extent this is desirable or not will be part of the policy debate. Then I go to the questions that have been asked about accumulation, aviation and nesting noise. I start with the question of why the choice was made not to include the noise rules on aviation in the Environmental Act. Indeed, they were chosen to be included in the Aviation Act, because that law also has rules for the aviation sector itself. For airlines and pilots it was more practical to keep all those rules together from the target group approach. The rules for aircraft noise that pass through the environmental plans are transferred to the system of the Environmental Act. This concerns not the sound space itself, but the translation into spatial planning. This is done with a separate amending decision, because there are still changes around different airports, such as the Schiphol Airport Classification Decision and Lelystad. In addition, about cumulation: the Supplementary Noise Act follows the Noise Act, which contains rules for roads, railways and industry, but not for aviation. But that doesn't make any difference to the operation: if the noise of air traffic prevents a busy road, the rules of both systems apply side by side. The Supplementary Decision sound does, however, bring an improvement by involving air traffic in the indoor values. That is where the noise of air traffic is involved, and thus in determining the sound insulation of houses. That was not the case under the Noise Control Act. In the long term, the rules for municipalities from airport decisions still go to the system of the Environment Act, by means of a separate amending act, as I have just told you. Then the municipality binds all relevant noise rules that play a role in allowing homes together in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. Air noise also plays a role in the assessment of cumulative noise under the Environmental Act. High cumulative noise levels can occur around Schiphol. In this case, the consideration given to the competent authority was that of Mrs Moonen...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The precise elaboration of the calculation rules of cumulation is still the subject of discussion. This will come into a supplementary arrangement which will be consulted this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u34	I have asked whether the legal standards for noise and external safety risks in the current Aviation Act will weigh as much as those of other sectors in the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u35	I do not believe that I have received that question. I will see to it that I return to this rather technical question in the second term. Apologies. Mr Janssen and Mrs Moonen asked a question about the nesting noise, following the decision of the Council of State. Nest noise must now be included in the noise of port activity. The introduction of noise production ceilings is based on the current authorised noise area, which respects existing rights. Counting nesting sound doesn't change that. But the calculated noise levels of the environment can be higher. This means that the growth of activities may require earlier action. In the end, we look at the current situation. If there is a desire for further growth, Mr Janssen asked if it was locked, then it will always have to be considered whether that is still possible, and then the nesting sound will be taken into account. The SP asked about the consequences of the ruling on the Environment Act. The ruling of the Court of Justice of the Council of State of 22 January concerns an establishment in Schiedam. The permit for that establishment was not clear across the boundaries of the establishment. Under the Noise Act, this noise is not in all cases clearly attributed to an establishment. Under the Environmental Act this is covered by noise production ceilings of an industrial site. But we step away from the concept of "establishment." The ruling stresses that the limitation must be clear, and it remains so under the Environmental Act. If the ships are actually part of the site, but they are outside the authorised limits, then the ships must not now moor at the quay without prior authorisation for the extension of the facility. If the docked vessels are located within the authorised limits, the licence shall also apply to the ships and the nesting noise shall comply with the noise requirements laid down therein. Transitional law currently applies. This noise can be added to the sound of an existing industrial site if necessary. Mrs Moonen had another question about accumulation in rail noise. In the case of railway noise, there is no need to take account of noise accumulation. But railways are subject to the same rules for the accumulation of noise as other sources of noise. This means that if it is decided that the noise of rail traffic should increase, it must also include a balancing of cumulative policies. Sound from other sources should also be involved in meeting the indoor values. So that trace sound is in the accumulation. Mr Verkerk asked another question about electric transport. I just went into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u36	Minister, are you at the end of the cumulation block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u38	The Minister quotes neatly from the ruling of the Council of State. But it was not about growth, it was about the situation we are now getting under the Environment Act, where the limitation of the establishment is indeed important, whether or not a ship should be counted with nest noise. But the concept of "establishment" is going to go away, so soon the limitation will also go away. My very simple question: is under the Environment Act a ship that is going to dock at the quay for an activity that nest noise then part of the noise production ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u39	If the ships are actually part of the site, but they are outside the authorised limits, then ships cannot now moor at the quay without prior authorisation for the extension of the facility. But if the ships are heard within the authorized limits, the licence will also apply to the ships and the nesting noise will have to comply with the noise requirements. That's how it's gonna be later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u40	That's what it's like now, as far as I understand it, because that's the current situation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u41	It's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u42	... with a limited establishment. But we're getting rid of the decor. That is why I am so opposed to abolishing the concept of 'establishment', but we are moving towards activities. If it is an activity to perform ship repair and maintenance with a ship at the quay, where the licence is no longer geographically limited but has a noise production ceiling, then my question is whether that nest noise counts in the noise production ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u43	As far as I understand it, it counts now. But let me check that out for the second term. So the question is whether it counts in the sound production ceiling when such a ship is repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u44	I'm afraid it's a little wider, because I think it's technically very complicated, you know. Perhaps you could also take the answer to my question. Apparently, there are companies now who fear that they should close because they are not allowed to maintain an establishment at the same time. They're not gone, but there are ships coming to load and unload, and they can also have a hotel function so the generators are on. Sometimes you can't even do that electric. Then there's not enough power to do that. Over the last few weeks there has been a great panic in the port of Rotterdam, at the port company and at industrial companies. Perhaps you and the leader of EZ could take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u45	If the information we have now does not answer Members' questions, I will ask them to indicate their questions in the suspension. As this is a case of a specific ruling, I will discuss with the Minister for Economic Affairs whether further information can be given on this matter. But under the Noise Act, noise is not clearly assigned to an establishment in all cases, but under the Environmental Act it is covered by noise production ceilings of an industrial site. But we step away from the concept of "establishment." I think that's the point. But we will see if we can say a little more about that in the second term. Otherwise, we will inform you more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u46	The Minister states that railways are part of the cumulation. In itself, that is a good answer. But it also indicates that there will be calculation rules and a supplementary system for cumulation. When can we expect this arrangement? Is that at least before 1 January 2021, when the Environment Act would in principle enter into force? Do we have that supplementary arrangement for cumulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u47	I think it goes into consultation in the spring, so it should be there normally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u49	I have another answer to the CDA's technical question on the rules on noise and external safety in the Aviation Act. These remain unchanged under the Environmental Act. To Mrs Moonen precisely: indeed, the supplementary regulation is going to be consulted this spring. That's what I have here as an answer. For the nesting sound a short addition. Under the Environmental Act, nest noise is going to count in the sound production ceilings, as I just said. This is regulated by the introduction rules. It is precisely for this reason that this is not an obstacle for companies, as existing rights of companies are preserved. Perhaps that is also an answer to Mr Crone. Then I come to the questions about the Crisis and Recovery Act and nitrogen. The PvdA asked whether derogations from limit values by municipalities and provinces were proportionate, taking preventive and compensatory measures. Deviations from limit values can now be seen in the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim Urban and Environmental Approach. There you can see that governments always make a thorough assessment of the protection of their citizens against environmental damage and the importance of a certain development. The projects under the Crisis and Recovery Act are evaluated and we report on this to Parliament in structural terms in the annual progress report. It is obvious that the application of the balancing area on the basis of the important economic or social interests will soon also become part of the evaluation of the Environmental Act. You want to see how that works out in practice. Ms Moonen asked about the ten-year deadline and the inclusion in the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Environment Act. Is that limitation in the Environment Act there, yes or no? Under the Environmental Act, the system is abandoned that you set hard rules in one law and then deviates from it in the Crisis and Recovery Act. The subject-by-matter has been considered which consideration space you should make possible. That's why you don't need that ten-year period either, because you offer room for consideration, but within frameworks that you would also find acceptable for the period for which that applies. If a municipality assesses the existence of significant economic or social interests that justify the deviation from a limit value, the duration of the derogation should be taken into account. Then it is not allowed in one go for ten years. For some considerations, you might want it to be regulated after up to three years. The explanatory notes on the Quality of Living Environment Decision include a balancing framework on how to deal with this possibility. As under the Crisis and Recovery Act, a thorough balance must be made between the importance of the standard and the importance of the concrete development. Sometimes that's maybe three years instead of ten years. This also depends, of course, on the extent to which the limit value is deviated from and the importance that is attached to it. As I have just said, that seems to me to be a point to be taken into account in the evaluation. The judge can also check whether the balance of interests has been properly made by the municipality and whether the motivation is sufficient. The environmental plan shall specify the length and extent of the derogation from the limit value. So that can also be tested. Enforcement is mandatory in principle. If there is a clear violation, the competent authority must maintain, unless there is a good reason not to. There is second-line supervision by provinces towards municipalities and through the ILT towards the provinces. Citizens can appeal to the government for adequate supervision, if necessary before the courts. In the extreme case, the Empire may intervene with inter-administrative supervision in the event of neglect of a job. But of course that's always the last step on the ladder. Mr Crone asked whether there would be national standardisation and supervision through rules of instruction. After all, we don't want any check-off lists. The substantive instruction rules ensure national uniformity. This means, for example, that acoustic offices can operate in the same way everywhere and that provinces and municipalities can compare their results. Compliance with the rules of instruction is subject to inter-administrative supervision. The Empire oversees the provinces. That's what ILT does in the field of sound. The provinces supervise municipalities and water boards. For this inter-administrative supervision, the intervention ladder, you know, first information, then information and consultation, and then the legal instruments. Then I come to protect and use nitrogen. It may not really belong to the subject of sound, but more to soil. The government is working hard to solve the nitrogen problem. The space created by the speed reduction is being used for the housing and the seven MIRT projects this year. Once the nitrogen registration system is operational, provinces can deploy the nitrogen space and allocate it to specific projects at municipal level. This is linked to the distribution of roles in the Environment Act. The nitrogen space available for this year should be sufficient for the construction of 75,000 homes. As you well know, it always comes down to the nitrogen deposition in a specific area. So it will always have to be checked whether it is pinching there and what might be needed in addition. We work actively with the Housing Deal regions to identify possible bottlenecks. We would also like to support the municipalities in resolving any remaining bottlenecks. If we look at the map where the 100 kilometers measure and the effects of the cattle transport track are expected to provide space, we can see that it will certainly be more exciting in a certain part of the coastal area than in other parts to determine whether there is enough nitrogen space for the homes we would like to build there. We are actively looking at what more we can do about this area with all the parties, in addition to the broad track that is being used for agriculture in this area. Then an important point: monitoring implementation costs and communication. Mr Crone asked whether communication and participation by citizens would take place at an early stage in the environmental plans. Yes, we discussed this in detail in the introduction law. The competent authority shall already indicate when notifying an environmental plan how participation is being shaped. Once again, a motion has also been tabled by the PvdA on this point, and I have wholeheartedly supported it. Mr Verkerk asks whether I can undertake to investigate how the complexity of the Supplementary Act is experienced by civil servants. The feasibility of regulation is indeed very important. It's being monitored. There are also agreements with the VNG. There will certainly be attention to the interpretation of the new rules. The wishes on this point are being considered together with the VNG. What does help is that in many respects the new regulation is much less complex than the current Noise Act. The system of standards has been simplified. That's definitely gonna help. Then there's the annual evaluation. The Labour Party knows that we have exchanged extensively in the debate that good monitoring, which we do annually, and evaluation, after every few years, are extremely important. There will be an annual report to your Chamber containing the monitoring results, the progress of the implementation, the findings and the actions we take on them. In addition, the Environment Act also prescribes an evaluation of the effectiveness and effects of the law in practice. So there's a monitor every year, but after five years there's the formal law review that comes from the law. So we don't sit still for five years to see how this works out. That seems to me to be the essence of the question put by the Labour Party. Both the Labour Party and the Christian Union asked about the role of the independent evaluation committee and whether it could take the evaluation points of the Supplementary Decision soundly. The committee will be accompanying the evaluation of the entire Environment Act, including the follow-up tracks. As far as I am concerned, it goes without saying that the balance between protecting and exploiting noise is a very relevant part of this. Mrs Moonen and Mr Janssen asked about the health effects of noise. Are residents' complaints included in the monitoring? It oversees the entire operation of the system. The noise rules are an integral part of this, including, for example, the way in which this balancing area is used. The RIVM also keeps a finger on the wrist when it comes to the health effects of sound. They are also monitored by RIVM. That is not part of the monitoring of the Environment Act, but that is also happening. Sound is also part of the monitoring of the Environment Act and RIVM also keeps its finger on the wrist. The VVD asked how the implementation practice is followed. There are the formal evaluation moments, but we have also agreed to monitor the development of the system, independently of those moments, with a special emphasis on new elements, such as noise production ceilings and basic noise emissions for municipalities and waterboards to quickly pick up signals. It has also been asked whether this will not last too long. No, we'll have to do that soon. Sometimes it will help to connect instances with different experiences. Sometimes further information or a hand-out will be required. In any case, the administrative costs, the implementation costs and the effects on housing are taken into account. I said earlier in the debate that there is, of course, development in the spatial domain. Any spatial development which leads to an adaptation by signals can also lead to a new debate. That is a policy-wise course with the usual path of fronts and the like at your Chamber. An important question is about the quality of the professionals. That was, among other things, a point of the CDA. In the inter-administrative programme Getting started with the Environment Act, municipalities, provinces and water boards have been working together on the preparation since 2015. It also explicitly pays attention to the professionals. This is done through a number of instruments. There are handouts, pilots, training courses, online training and all kinds of other tools. For the implementation support, 35 million is also available for all public sectors. So there is really extra investment in getting those professionals to the right level in the context of the Environment Act. The Information Point Environment Act appears to be very helpful. There is also a helpdesk that can be reached by phone and e-mail, for example in the case of questions about licensing. I think that's what GroenLinks was asking for. That group asked whether there really is a question available. We always adapt that offer of support based on signals from the country. For this, almost 17 million euros are available separately. Although governments are, of course, always responsible for implementing, for example, legislative changes in the organisation, we have decided to provide additional support to the parties when they are introduced. To this end, 5 million additional grants were granted to the waterboards and 13 million additional grants to the VNG. For example, almost EUR 70 million is being used by the Empire in total to prepare for the introduction of these public budgets and services. Mr Janssen asked about the finances. We have also discussed this in detail in the Introduction Act. The total size of the costs and benefits varies, of course, from one municipality to another. One-off implementation costs are structurally lower. This is all well monitored, so that it can be adjusted if necessary. I have already promised your Chamber that we will come forward with a letter before the summer on the latest state of play on costs. We're just gonna keep talking about that. As I said last week, I will provide an insight into the cost and benefit assessment for local authorities on the basis of the data available before the entry into force of the KB. Sound is part of this. The VVD asked what we would do if the burdens on local authorities were to be substantial. We're monitoring this. If a municipality is in danger of getting into financial difficulties, we will, of course, talk about it. Then the evaluation. I believe that we have had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this issue. The Environment Act provides for an evaluation after five years. In addition, an independent evaluation committee will be set up. I've just told you a little bit more about how we're gonna do the monitoring. The Environment Act also stipulates that the Planning Bureau for the Environment will issue a scientific report on the development of the quality of parts of the physical environment at least once every four years. It looks at all aspects, including the environment. It will also monitor the safeguarding of the priorities and national interests of the NOVI in a biennial report. I also made a number of commitments on monitoring last week. In any case, it will address legal protection, case law, participation, the EIA, protection and exploitation. All those elements are in there. Mr President, that brings me to the end of this block. That was the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u50	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-11.u51	The debate will continue after dinner break. I'm suspending the meeting for a brief moment. I would ask the spokesmen to come forward for the fourth term of the Environment Act.
