ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	The debate is about the developments surrounding the coronavirus. Before I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff, I would like to say that all the group chairmen have indicated that they need five questions throughout the debate, i.e. five questions in total. They have also made an urgent appeal to you to abide by it and to watch it closely. I see the Prime Minister looks very happy. Mr Wilders on a point of order, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Well, I think the agreement was that you would hold the coalition slightly stricter than the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Good. I shall then give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. The corona image seems to stabilize somewhat. The situation in intensive care is still spicy, but the occupation is decreasing. But we're far from there. I told you last week: we are doing the macabre dance with this virus for a very long time; one step forward, one step backwards and one step aside. We move around each other with the greatest possible caution, also literally. I think it's good that we can do that, including last Easter weekend. But at the same time we all crave more freedom of movement, hug grandpa and grandma, have a beer with your mates or just go back to the hairdresser, get back to work, save your company and keep your head above water. That is what we all want, but I repeat that first we need to be in order: intensive care, catch-up care, but also to give all those employees some time to recover, so that they don't fall over, should there be a peak again, or when the care is simply restored. If we can do anything, we should also be able to control the spread of the virus: testing and quickly knowing that you've been near someone who turns out to be infected. Now we seem to be focusing on testing capacity in conjunction with what I believe is already called the app, although there is no one. It gets the most attention. It would also be very nice if it could, within the safeguards of privacy. But it shouldn't be an end in itself. So I ask the Cabinet to keep an open mind about other things that you can do. Because not only the virus, knowledge of the virus also spreads very quickly, for example on how it spreads. In places where they sing, in a football stadium, a ski hut or a church, it spreads faster and lingers longer than in other places. We are also gaining more and more insight into measures which do work and which do not appear to work or which can be useful under certain circumstances. That also brings me to wearing mouth caps, not necessarily to protect the one wearing such a mouth cap, but not to let what comes out of you land on another. We are now seeing more and more investigations appear. We see other countries imposing masks in situations where they can't or can't handle 1.5 metres. This leads to understandable questions for people in the country. Then why don't we? I believe that masks and other protective equipment are particularly important for all those working in the care sector. They must be able to protect themselves and the people they care for. The reports on deficits are still there. They are decreasing, availability is increasing, but still the question is whether they always end up in the right place and on time. I'm better, but we're not here yet. For this reason alone, I support the government in the view that professional masks should not be used by all of us now. Those are really for the care. I also understand the risk of false security. If people with mild complaints go out with a glorified handkerchief in front of the mouth instead of staying inside, it can be more evil than good. But, Mr President, we shouldn't be too rigid about that either. Fortunately, this morning at the briefing we found an open attitude and also nuance: in a next phase, if you can do more, oral protection for ordinary people who do not work in care may be wise. One mouth cap isn't the other either. It's not like we should pull them away from care. You have other ones that have less effect, but still more effect than nothing. Now, without guidance, without knowing exactly what's useful, people are just making them themselves. That's nice, but we don't know exactly what the effect of that is. If we look forward to the moment that we can slowly do more, those caps might be able to help protect us. Two weeks ago, I congratulated the Cabinet on the fact that it remained open to new insights and changed circumstances and did not remain firmly committed to a snapshot. The same applies to this point. Yesterday at the press conference it seemed to be mainly about professional mouth caps. The Minister was very firm in that: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I would like to ask him whether he agrees with what was said this morning by the experts, namely that there are other variants that could be useful at other stages which hopefully will come. I think it is wise that we should continue to hold the discussion open and that the cabinet should also indicate with the experts the circumstances in which oral protection can be useful in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	Congratulations on Mr Dijkhoff's contribution, because if I listen to him correctly, he indicates that the care staff are really the first priority. They must have mouth caps first. But in the next stage, in which we hopefully enter into that exit strategy, we may well be able to use masks in certain sectors or parts of society as well. Is this also an appeal to the cabinet to work it out and to take account of the fact that we may need it later when buying mouth caps that are already taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Klaver. No, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	I haven't been to the hairdresser for a while, so maybe there are similarities starting to occur. Yeah, I think so. First, you need to know what's wise in what circumstances. For example, if there is a level that doesn't protect anything, not another, then you just have to be clear to everyone and say, "Don't start it, because then you'll feel safe, when that's wrong. I think you should then see what level of protection is useful in what circumstances. Of course, it only makes sense to advise if you have them and if you have bought them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you. Mr Wilders also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Let's get to the tip of the mouth caps. It is good that Mr Dijkhoff is now drawing attention to this. We see countries around us, Germany, Belgium and Austria before, which say that some form of oral protection is needed. Do you agree with me that it is incomprehensible that RIVM should step on the brakes there? Again, I am not talking about the professional mouth caps that initially go to the employees in the care. If you will allow me, Mr President, I, at least one of our staff members found an information bulletin from the RIVM itself dated 2 March 2009. I admit that this is already more than ten years ago, but in it the RIVM writes: "Wearing any type of mask is of great importance in a pandemic. It leads to a reduced transmission. It should be used as much as possible. Also wearing a tea towel as a mask among the population will offer a significant degree of protection." In short, the RIVM itself said ten years ago, and again, I am not talking about the PFF2 masks: do, from tea towel to preferably something else. Apart from the concern argument, I think that the cabinet has said above all 'we don't do it', because it just didn't make them there. Do you agree with me that we should, bearing in mind RIVM in 2009, certainly as part of an exit strategy, as Mr Klaver said, call on the Cabinet to promote the use of mouth-protecting devices?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	What Mr Wilders read from the 2009 brochure fits well with what I said. I'm not an expert. So you do it with the sources you have. Then I always think: MIT is more credible than something unverifiable on Facebook. In general, if a virus spreads via saliva, you better keep it than it hits someone else. I think we now have knowledge of this particular virus, and then you know how far it goes. At the distance we have now, a mouth cap doesn't matter much. With us, at the distance between you, Madam President, and me, it may already matter a little more. If you know how a specific virus behaves, you can, of course, tighten up your general advice on pandemic spread and mouth caps and textiles. So if in subsequent phases the chances are greater that, however well we do our best, we get together within a radius of 1.5 metres, then I think it makes sense to look at oral protection as well. Mouth protection sounds weird, because it protects mostly others and not the ones who wear it, but if we all do it, we protect each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	Madam President. For over a month now, our country is locked. It is encouraging to see how many heroes the Netherlands counts. Like the heroes of the police and the military. The bus drivers, the drivers and the conductors, who ensure that people in crucial professions can still go to work. But also our truck drivers, the shop staff, the compartments. They're all invaluable. And of course also the heroes in the care, who fight in the front line. Unfortunately, the problem with the lack of protective equipment for healthcare workers has still not been resolved. The daily reality for them, for example in home care, is that sometimes they no longer dare to go to clients because they are afraid. Fear because they think they can get infected. Fear of fear of infecting clients. Fear because they're afraid to take the virus home. Mr De Blok of the home care organisation Neighborhood care says: "Most infections are caused by healthcare professionals. A huge error of assessment has been made." Mr. Chairman. It is therefore furious that on 10 February, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an aircraft containing millions of protective equipment left the Netherlands for China. Our stuff; gone! The wholesalers were squeezed like tubes of toothpaste, that's how we read in the Volkskrant. Three days after the World Health Organisation warned against a global lack of protective equipment, millions of mouth caps went from the Netherlands to China. It's unbelievable. How did this happen? Who knew? Did the Prime Minister know? Madam President. This cabinet and its advisors at RIVM made error of assessment after error of assessment. I quote from last Saturday's Financial Daily the head of the RIVM Centre on Infection Disease Control: "It looked like something from a science fiction film. I never thought it would happen, not even at the end of February." It can't be described with a pen. In particular, the cabinet wanted to protect vulnerable elderly people, but failed to adequately test their caregivers and to provide adequate protective equipment. The result is frightening. In 40% of the nursing homes, people have been infected and died massively. It's a battlefield. There are nursing homes in which almost all departments run corona. How many infections and how many deaths would it have been if we had tested those health care workers sufficiently from the outset and provided adequate protective equipment? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands craves an exit strategy. This is good for our economy and good for our freedom, but it must of course be done responsibly. Shouldn't wearing masks be just part of the exit strategy here in the Netherlands? The RIVM, I said that just in an interruption, too, ten years ago. They thought using it was an excellent idea. I fear that there has been a change of opinion, not because it is not true, but because we do not have our business in order and we have sent half of our material to China. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Mark Rutte has been Prime Minister of the Netherlands for ten years. It was his job to make sure we were prepared for this pandemic. He didn't. With the breakdown of care, he put our country behind 10-0. By late acting on about all fronts at this pandemic, we have lost precious time, with all the consequences. No nice television speech or a jubilant PR piece changes anything about that. Mr. Chairman. I say to the people at home, take good care of yourself, take good care of your loved ones, take good care of your family. Because you are not us here, but you are the backbone of the Netherlands. And please, hold on. The sooner we all get our freedom back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr. Chairman. We're at some sort of turning point in this corona crisis. There's been a lot of hard work in a lot of places in health care these past few weeks. You see the tension on the ICUs decrease slightly, but the tension in society is getting worse. More and more people are wondering out loud how normal the new normal will be. From parents who teach at home to SMEs who work very hard to keep their heads above water, everyone is looking for a hold. The Prime Minister was right to speak yesterday about devilish dilemmas. The controlled and safe start-up of a society without ic's and nursing homes immediately returning to a crisis situation, how do you do that? Yesterday's cabinet letter shows that struggle very clearly on several pages. It is stated that next week there will be a real elaboration of an exit strategy. A central question here is how education and childcare will be re-launched. My question to the cabinet is: will there also be a clear answer next week, a clear directive on how this can be done? Furthermore, you can see that a lot of countries, colleagues Dijkhoff and Wilders have already talked about opting for forms of oral protection in their exit strategy, especially in places where keeping a distance of 1.5 metres is impossible to achieve. Isn't that question going to be here in the next phase? The deficits and priorities are now in the care sector, and they will continue to be, and we must be honest about that in the next week when it comes to those real mouth masks. But if schools are to start up again and secondary school students are to travel again, then in the Netherlands there is no need for alternative forms of oral protection. Does the cabinet take this into account in the elaboration of the exit strategy that we get next week? Does this address ways of preventing false safety, but also guidelines for people to find alternative forms of oral protection themselves and how to use them safely? When it came to nursing homes, this morning, in the technical briefing, you saw that staff testing and the new distribution of protective equipment seem to have an effect, or that there is hope that it will be effective. At the same time, in that technical briefing and in articles of recent days, there were also concerns that nursing homes or care itself have become a fireplace of corona. Nieuwsuur, among others, explicitly addressed last night to ensure that sometimes the GGDs are not quick and ineffective at regional level, especially when testing, and that nursing homes are therefore going to do it themselves. Does the Minister recognize these signals? What is going to happen and is going to happen in addition to making sure that these nursing homes don't remain a fireplace? If you look at the letter from this week's cabinet, you will see a lot of attention again for the own production of devices, protective materials and medicines, just here in the Netherlands. My question is whether the cabinet shares the observation that we have become too dependent on abroad when it comes to these matters, especially in a major health crisis. This is an issue that applies not only now but also to the future. The question is whether, after this crisis, we should produce these things more permanently in the Netherlands ourselves in order to be able to cope better with a new crisis when it arises, not only in the short term, but also in the future. I am pleased to see that the cabinet has decided to significantly increase the contribution to international cooperation to achieve a vaccine. That's necessary, and that's good. It's fivefold, I read. I also welcome the fact that, following Mr Van der Staaij's motion, the Prime Minister signed a letter calling for attention to vulnerable countries, especially in Africa. If you look at those countries, where there is often no working healthcare system, the question is whether there should be any more and what role the Netherlands can play in this. Would the Cabinet be willing to ask the International Affairs Advisory Council for an urgent opinion on what role the Netherlands can play in this global approach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you. Mr Azarkan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u16	The subject has not been raised by Mr Heerma, but there is, of course, an emergency package for entrepreneurs at the moment. Large companies can use the NOW. There is the contribution of €4,000. We have set up a fund with 300 million for cultural institutions. Now I also get questions from religious and social institutions. They say it's hard for them to get through this time, too. Does Mr Heerma of the CDA feel like meeting those important parts of society as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u17	I believe that, in recent weeks, enlargements of the packages have also been applied to civil society organisations. If Mr Azarkan has any indication that these extensions are not enough, then I would be interested to hear the reaction of the cabinet. However, I believe that enlargements have already been implemented for civil society organisations, even after last week's signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Silence! Almost everything in this crisis goes back to silence. The deep silence in which people grieve for their loved ones. The unbearable silence in the city. The cursed silence on stage, in class and in the cafe. And the untraceable silence in a home full of life. We also experience our own silence in this house this week. A crazy kind of silence between Easter and Pentecost. The silence before the storm of new measures and decisions, because we are at a crossroads in the corona approach. On the road ahead of us there may be a shred of normality and hope. If all goes well, the toughest measures may soon decrease in weight. But anyone looking left and right still sees the enormous impact of a life-threatening virus. I am thinking first of all of the emergency situation in nursing homes, home and disability care and long-term care, because the number of infections there is growing rapidly. Caregivers, who risk their lives to save others' lives, are still far from always relying on the means of protection they need to do their job safely. That is why I ask the Minister: what are we seeing in concrete terms from the new distribution model for protective equipment? Do the people who care outside the hospital have anything to do with that this week? A lot of people are jumping to produce protective equipment, but are not hearing from the National Consortium Tools. Does the centre itself have sufficient capacity to process all applications? How will the Minister arrange for the necessary care to continue to be provided if the number of infections in long-term care continues to increase? Mr. Chairman. We can only find the way forward at this corona intersection if we consider all possible means and techniques, if we listen to scientific advice and cooperate internationally. Last week, the Minister announced that using apps could help in the fight against the virus. This is not unwise in advance, but trust is crucial. Last weekend, 60 scientists and experts presented a number of principles for a safe app. Is the Minister prepared to accept these principles? Science must also be heard in the debate on the reopening of primary schools and childcare centres: as soon as possible, as far as D66 is concerned, because in education there is a "stoppage'. Can the cabinet promise that teachers and school leaders will also be involved in this decision and that not only will RIVM's advice be taken into account? Finally, Mr President. We can only find the way forward if we recognise that this crisis does not affect national borders. Among other things, the cabinet has recognised this by providing medical assistance to the Caribbean Netherlands and by improving coordination with our neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium. But things aren't as good elsewhere. In this global pandemic, President Trump has decided to cut the World Health Organisation short. That's like stabbing all lifeboats on a cap seizing ship. Life threatening leadership. Our values and humanity and common sense are now more needed than ever. Religious and philosophical leaders made an Easter call to reserve 1% of the Dutch aid package for corona aid in developing countries. That is a direction of thought which our group has great sympathy for. I ask the Prime Minister what possibilities he sees for this, also in response to Mr Heerma's questions. Because let me be clear: international aid is also in Dutch interest. If we allow the virus to circulate in parts of the world that are not prepared to stop the virus there, it will be able to hit back very hard here too. Then all the measures and sacrifices that have been made over the past few months have been pointless and we are not going to find the way forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Mr Klaver has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. Four weeks ago, the Netherlands went into lockdown. I actually think today is a strange day for this debate. It's a kind of silence before the storm. There were no new measures this week and we are all eagerly looking forward to next week. How do we proceed? What's the way forward? That is why I think this is a good time to take a look back at the past few weeks. 'Cause everything's going so fast. I don't know about you guys, but my sense of time has changed. Things sometimes seem to have been back for years, but then it only turned out to have happened a week ago. That's how I think of the moment when we were standing here with each other and we were still worried about the ic-capacity. We were worried that we wouldn't have enough beds. I want to give a big compliment to the care. I would like to compliment them on the way they have managed to get so many extra beds there. And I'm making society a big compliment, because we manage to stay inside with each other and because when we go out, we stick to the rules and keep our distance. All to make the Netherlands better. A lot went well, but if you look back, it's also important to see where that might not have happened. And then I think about the nursing homes. If you see that in the whole of society the number of infections is decreasing but not in those places, then you can say that that has become the new fireplaces. And that is bad, because we have said together: we have to protect the most vulnerable people. And those most vulnerable people live in those homes. So it didn't work out. That is why I have the following question to the Minister. If he looks back now, has it not been entirely irresponsible, with the knowledge of today, to say to health workers who are ill, 'go to work', without having protective equipment? That's putting a lot of pressure on these people, too. I've spoken to nurses who see people fall into their homes near bushes and wonder if that's their fault. They think: shouldn't I have gone to work while I was forced by my employer? Mr. Chairman. I myself believe that a major error of assessment has been made here and that we should never have allowed people there to work without those protective equipment. My question to the Minister is therefore: are there at present sufficient protective equipment, including care outside hospitals? Minister Van Rijn mentioned the need for 4 million mouth caps. Is this calculation inclusive or exclusive of care outside hospitals? While we are talking about protective equipment, I understand very well that the cabinet says that the first priority is to provide adequate protective equipment for care. But today in the briefing, RIVM also said very clearly for the first time that masks can indeed be part of the exit strategy. It was very clear. I almost saw a parallel with the discussion about the lockdown: are you for a lockdown or against it? But we're in a lockdown and the question is, what size do you choose? Actually, it was said that mouth caps will play a role in that exit strategy. The only question is to what extent; for which sectors, for which professions, at which locations? The Minister was very clear that he does not intend to do so, that masks cannot be used for society. In this debate, can the Minister indicate that this is the case and that he will involve in the elaboration of the exit strategy in how mouth caps for the population can contribute to that exit strategy? He can also indicate that he is already taking this into account in the acquisition of materials, so that additional funds will be bought in when we need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Klaver spoke in a calm tone rather harshly about the care outside the hospital. He has already come to the conclusion that it has been a mistake to let people work there, even though they had mild complaints, without protection. I do not disagree with that, because I myself do not think that I can yet judge it and that I do not yet have enough facts for it. He also said, "They shouldn't have gone to work." But I've experienced over the past few weeks, including from people in the care, that they thought it was quite a dilemma, because it's not something like: then we don't have cookies for two weeks. The alternative, staying at home and not caring for people who depend on that care every day, was of course disastrous. So now it seems like he doesn't see that as a dilemma anymore. He says retroactively: the people should have been without care and the caregivers should have stayed home, waiting for enough protective equipment. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u23	No. If only it were so simple, you could put it that way. I wouldn't say that. It was a dilemma and it's a dilemma. Take the way we finally looked at the care in the nursing homes. In fact, it has been said for a very long time, until just last week: there are actually much less need for these protective equipment. The focus was entirely on the hospitals. People with mild complaints could indeed work there. If we now see what kind of fireplace these nursing homes have become, I think you may indeed have doubts about that strategy. And yes, it was a dilemma. But maybe we shouldn't have made another choice. If I've expressed myself too strongly here that I'm sure, then I want to take those words back, because I'm not sure. But I do think that, even in a crisis like this, you should be willing to look back. As the cabinet always says, with half the information you have to make 100% of the choices. That also means that you have to look back, because we have to learn from it how to proceed in this crisis. With me, there is great doubt whether this has been wise, although I understand very well that we have shortages of staff. But if you want people to work, you have to take extra measures so they can't infect other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u24	I fully agree with Mr Klaver that you should look back and that you do not have to wait until a few years to do so. But before I could share his coupe, we need to know exactly whether the cause of these infections in the nursing homes is also with the staff who have worked with complaints and limited or absent protective equipment. We should know that before you can determine it. When I look back, I still think that there was just scarcity and that there were too few protective equipment. If you could turn back the time and put those resources in the nursing home, you'd have run out of them on the ic again. I think it was even more crucial there. Anyway, let's take a look back in a while, if we have more facts. But then I understand a little better how Mr Klaver looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u25	Sure. Looking back on this we will do a lot of more moments. Once there's scarcity, you have to divide it up, and it hurts wherever you put it. I just asked a question about the amount of mouth masks that were ordered and how that was looked at. What we understood, and that was also the question I asked, is that in the first few weeks, in fact, the focus was very much on hospitals. The calculations that were made of the number of masks you need were information that came from the academic hospitals. There was not enough on the retina that masks were also needed in the nursing homes. If that's the case, I'd think that's wrong, and I'd think that's a mistake. If we could not get at all anymore and if that is what it is, then you simply have to act in scarcity and then I judge the situation completely differently. But I want to make sure that at that moment in time we also had what was needed in these nursing homes and that we also bought in on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u27	"All the people with a corona infection I've seen in my practice lately were caregivers." That is a statement by a general practitioner from South Holland who I used for this debate. At our SP notification point, we still see a lot of reports every day of people from home care, disability care, nursing care, all saying that they have to do their work with too little protective materials. That leads to very big problems. It is therefore no surprise that it leads to a lot of carers getting sick at the moment. Now on Saturday at Nieuwsuur we saw the head of public health at the GGD tell that he had only been instructed the week before to create another distribution model for the protective equipment, so that more protective equipment would also go to the hospital. My question to the Minister is: why did this task come so late? After all, we have been talking about this for weeks, at least in this Chamber. How can it be that I have another question which is that production in my own country is getting under way so difficult? How can we hear from healthcare organisations, who are going to call and order themselves, that they can get more materials, while we are always hearing above all here, how extremely difficult it is? How is it that the cabinet now thinks within a week that it will be able to develop an incredibly complex Corona app, while it has not been able to make the most of the test capacity already in the Netherlands for about two months now? That is what we hear from laboratories that say they can test more than what is happening at the moment. That is a big problem, especially for our caregivers, who want to be tested and need to be tested. They always hear the Minister say that all caregivers for whom that is needed can now be tested, but the practice is completely different. We hear that so many times, every day. My question is therefore how we can solve this and how we are going to take care of it, because there is now a great deal of concern: if so many healthcare professionals become ill, the pressure on care is naturally increasing again. So what are we going to do about it? I would also like a response from the Minister to his strategy in the longer term for nursing homes. The loneliness is increasing there. All the pressure ends up with the caregivers, because the nursing homes are now locked. Everyone understands that we have to do everything we can to keep that virus out of there as much as possible, but at the same time I think it is good that we are thinking here and talking about how desirable and realistic that is and whether it is still possible for this to last for months and perhaps a year. Isn't it possible to look at what can be done? Is it conceivable, for example, that you would point out to each nursing home resident one person who would then be tested, who would receive protection materials and then be allowed in? It can help, so there can be some contact. I also have a question about the strategy on group immunity. This morning we heard that only 3% of the Dutch now have enough antibodies in the body against the virus. My question is: does this have any significance for the further reduction of the lockdown measures and the potential risks of new infections? Mr. Chairman. The IMF warned us that the current crisis is at least as big as the Great Depression of the 1930s. We can now see that inequality in the Netherlands and in the world is increasing an inequality that was already there only because of this crisis. Above all, we are now seeing a cabinet that makes a moral appeal to the business community: please keep your people in service, because you will receive state aid. On the landlords: make arrangements with your tenants who come in trouble. But at the same time, we see thousands of people now losing their jobs. At the same time we see that the rents go up and employees and tenants have nothing to do with this. A moral apple is not going to help us through this crisis. Right choices do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Last week I was at the Máxima Medical Center in Veldhoven, where they had doubled the ic-capacity and invited me to come and watch. It's super impressive what happened there. It's nice to have a little more air in there now. The staff, the nurses, were also very proud to be able to do so, but they were also concerned. The news that someone from Erasmus MC had died, someone from 29, hacked into it with people. That is one of the very great concerns that is still hanging over this debate: the protection of the people who do the work in the care sector. Mrs Marijnissen also mentioned this. My question to the cabinet is: what exactly is the situation now? There is a new distribution model, but how much scarcity and how many deficits are left? A second huge dark cloud is the disaster that takes place in the nursing homes. We're getting more and more insight into that. The numbers are extremely impressive and extremely worrying. Where visits to the nursing homes were prohibited on 20 March, it took until yesterday for the instruction to change and people with minor complaints no longer went to work without being tested. That's a month in which an enormous amount of contamination has taken place. I'll ask the cabinet how it looks back on that. The OMT talks about the cause of restrictive testing policies and the cause of insufficient personal protective equipment. Very heavy words, which are not mine or Jesse Klaver's, who just referred to them, but the OMT's. So the question is: what is the government going to do to prevent further contamination in the nursing homes in the next few weeks? Mr. Chairman. While we're still in the middle of the crisis, we need to start thinking about what's next. We know how it works by now. On Sunday, the various rulers meet with the Prime Minister at the Catshuis. Mondays, they talk to the OMT. On Tuesday there will be a ministerial committee with a press conference. Then we'll talk about it here. This means that we need to be very far away in thinking about the criteria. I think we should all know it. I think the OMT can manage an outbreak, but now you also need advice from people with behavioral expertise, anthropologists, people who understand how to rebuild society. So I ask the cabinet if it is prepared to expand the circle of advisers. I also ask the Cabinet to share the opinions of the various departments used with the Chamber, because we are now coming to a point where the considerations will become far more political than purely medical. How are we going to get into the next phase? What choices do we make? When you read the OMT's advice, you see a kind of preview: primary schools and daycare centers do, the rest not yet. That makes it very important for the cabinet to state what it is going to base its judgment on. First, the schools had to stay open. Afterwards, Slob said that they can't open until after research into the medical consequences of infection by children. Now we see that that investigation is not yet coming. On what basis is the cabinet going to make those decisions? In this context, precisely because many people are concerned about their own health and those of loved ones, but also about their security of existence in a period of stagnation in the economy, it is essential that the Cabinet communicates clearly what it expects of society. I do not understand very well that Minister Wiebes, when entering the meeting, demands protocols from society by economic sector, because otherwise you cannot open up. If you demand that, I expect the Prime Minister to explain it and we'll see it in the letter of inquiry. The one-and-a-half meter economy doesn't seem like a subject to improvise about. The far-reaching change that you expect from sectors must be substantiated. I ask whether the cabinet is also prepared to present alternatives to the one-and-a-half meter economy, for example using mouth caps; this has not been discussed several times for nothing. You see that the question of whether it is necessary and useful has so far been confused with the question of whether it is possible and whether there is scarcity. As a result, you miss opportunities not only to protect people, but also to help them regain their security of existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Two weeks ago, we were very concerned that we would end up in black scenarios when it comes to ic capacity. Fortunately, thanks to doctors and nurses and the behavior of society as a whole, we did not get into that. What I'm afraid of right now is that we're gonna end up in black scenarios for nursing care. There is a lot of mortality, crunchy when it comes to personal protective equipment, pressure on nursing staff, terrible loneliness and lovers are cut off from each other. What we want, of course, is to prevent infection with the virus. It is about the physical well-being of the elderly, but it is also about the mental and mental well-being of the elderly. It is precisely at this time that we are talking about quality of life. The availability of protective equipment is crucial. I would like to ask the VWS Minister to include carers in the new system for the distribution of protective equipment and to look for ways to make more personal contact possible. Is it true that different GMD regions deal differently with the distribution of personal protective equipment? There's a shortage of resources. That's obvious. We've talked about that a lot. Can the VWS Minister indicate how the new distribution model, which has just been launched, is working out for nursing home care, for disability care, for pgb-holders and for assisted living and social care, including for homeless people and homeless people? Mr. Chairman. A list of crucial professions has been drawn up by NCTV. Can the Minister confirm that the mental caregivers are among the crucial professions and that they also have access to tests and protective equipment? We also need their help in this crisis. Then the app. There are a lot of questions about that. For the Christian Union, the following criteria are important: temporaryity, no central storage of data, anonymity and voluntaryity. There must be a so-called "open source," with a beautiful Dutch word "open source." It must be in line with current privacy laws. For us, it is important that we involve not only commercial parties, but also the academic world. I read some of these criteria back in the letter, but not all. I would like to ask whether these principles are also the principles of the cabinet. Then the exit strategy. How does coordination take place at European level? This is particularly crucial for border regions. Are there going to be regional strategies, because the situation in Groningen is quite different from that in Brabant? In what way are mouth caps and test capacity among others part of the slow start-up of our society? Finally, I have a cup of "varia" following the example of the VWS Minister, but very briefly. Thank you for the regulation on ornamental and potato cultivation. I'm very, very happy about that. Thank you for fulfilling that commitment last week and thank you for doing so quickly. Thanks for all the effort for homeless people and homeless people. I do have one more question. Do municipalities have sufficient quarantine capacity? Should this be controlled nationally, because there are also great differences? How do we ensure that these people in the one-and-a-half-metre society, in which the current capacity is used in a different way, still have shelter? It is good that there is European solidarity, and we have seen the agreements that have been made at European level, within the euro area, but also internationally. My question is how the Van der Staaij motion is being implemented. I agree with the question put by Mr Heerma and also by Mr Jetten. Churches and other philosophical movements have called for 1% of aid to be earmarked for international aid. How does the Cabinet react to that? Finally, the reception of refugees who are now on Lesbos. A number of them are already going to the Greek mainland. A suggestion has been made in written questions that have been widely signed, written questions from the SP Group, to be very creative, for example with reception on cruise ships. How is that looked at? That concludes me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u33	Thank you, Mr President. "Corona, week 7" sounded this morning in the weekly briefing to the House of Representatives. An intermediate week, the Prime Minister said yesterday at the press conference. So where are we now? We have seen that all efforts have led to a happy decline in the number of occupied beds on the ICIs and that the black scenario that we had to be really afraid of a few weeks ago seems to have been averted. Thank you to all those who have made themselves very hard for that. At the same time, the problems outside hospitals are still very serious. There's a lot of care in nursing home care. There's a lot of grief in next of kin and in people whose neighbor is sick. So we're a long way from here. This week the cabinet says: we are going to carefully consider how to proceed next. Next week the opinions and the measures will be: how to proceed after 28 April? The tests play an important role in this. We have asked a great deal for these tests, and fortunately they are now becoming more widely applicable. Furthermore, there are the mouth caps. Are there sufficient protective materials? I trust that the cabinet will continue to make every effort to ensure that this is done as well and as quickly as possible where necessary. At the same time, we see that the cabinet is accelerating the deployment of the app. We have constantly heard in this crisis that we must listen to experts. The Animal Party believes that this is a very sensible call, but that should of course also apply when it comes to using a very far-reaching tool as an app. The Chamber and the Cabinet have received a call from 60, now 100 scientists who say: involve us and pay attention to all the major objections that exist. Is the Cabinet prepared to involve that group? Because privacy and anonymity are not the only objections, one of the spokesmen of this group says. There are also questions as to whether such an app is effective at all, whether there is sufficient testing capacity to feed the contact and tracing system to infected patients, and there are questions about the societal impact. We have a rule of law, and you can't just put it aside, even in crisis time. For the good result, you need more time, especially if you want these kinds of questions to be considered. The Party for Animals is therefore far from reassured. We see that the Minister is proposing that the currently developing apps should be tested this weekend by anyone who knows, but he is certainly not confusing that with the demand for open source? Playing with the app for the weekend isn't the same thing. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has, it seems, made a unique finding internationally. The Netherlands is the only country with an "intelligent lockdown." The Prime Minister has this understanding. If you google, you'll find that no other country has an intelligent lockdown. Only the Netherlands has it. The Prime Minister is now also talking about an intelligent way back from this intelligent lockdown. The Animal Party would like to ask the Prime Minister to reflect on how intelligent the situation was before we entered the lockdown. Then I'm talking about our economy, which far exceeds the capacity of the Earth. Our economy is causing a major climate crisis and a major biodiversity crisis. The cabinet can't bet on blindly fixing those old mistakes in that economy. So support for sectors cannot be separated from the question of what needs to change. If you support KLM, it has to include that for some of the activities that simply cannot go on, there will be a social plan for the employees. They must be helped to choose a different route. Mr. Chairman. We were sawing at the branch we're sitting on. The dumbest thing we can do is go back to that "old normal." Because the only economy that remains sustainable in the future is an economy that stays within the capacity of the earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u34	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I'll give the floor to Mr Krol. How are you, Mr. Krol?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u35	I only have four minutes, Madam President!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mr. Chairman. The number of hospitalisations and the number of patients on the ic's show a decreasing trend. And every day we look forward to hopefully lower figures. It seemed to be moving in the right direction for the past few days. A glimmer of hope. At the same time there are still many patients, many people die daily, especially older people, the pressure on care is still immense and there is no suitable medicine. We must stick to the directives, no matter how difficult it may be. Don't visit people aged 70 or over, the directive is on the website. Does this also apply to meetings outside, with this beautiful weather, between children, parents and grandparents if they observe 1.5 meters away? I'd like a response. Many people in nursing homes have been affected by corona: thousands of infected patients and hundreds of deadly victims. Many elderly people who could no longer live at home have been entrusted with loving care in a nursing home, but they often fail to protect them from this disease. Already weeks ago, we asked for attention to be paid to the distressing situation. Today, the question arises as to whether the cabinet has really done enough to prevent or limit this tragedy in the major crisis. Is the lack of protective equipment or, above all, the focus on hospital care possible a reason? How can the virus grab around itself when the settings are almost locked? How can we support people who are not allowed to visit their partner, parent or child? Can we learn something from the residents who have not become ill or from institutions and departments that do not have corona patients? The Minister writes in the letter that his attention to nursing homes will continue unabated. Attention. What's that? 50PLUS thinks that's really too weak. Action, dedication and focus, that's what we need! I'd like a response. 50PLUS is not reassured by the reported state of play in the field of protective equipment. On the contrary. The delivery of all orders is uncertain, production in the Netherlands is taking place far too slowly and the available raw materials are limited, namely for three weeks' use. It's still raining complaints from health care workers. They must be able to do their important work safely. Can the Minister go into this in detail again? Especially since the regular care and other professions will also want to do their job safely. While in other countries they distribute masks at the entrance to supermarkets and public transport, we do not have enough here to protect healthcare workers. Is the new distribution model to the satisfaction of all healthcare providers? Can the Minister pay attention to the position of carers in the distribution model? Is the Minister prepared to look together with municipalities to see how the group of carers, which is now under much greater strain, can be better supported by the municipality? Is the Minister, in the long term, willing to set up a national centre of expertise for psychosocial assistance for both employees and patients and family? Finally. In 2016 and 2018 the cabinet received urgent advice on how to tackle a pandemic. But those advices seem completely ignored, with all the consequences of that. Why, that's how I ask the Prime Minister. Madam President, I would like to explain this to you sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u38	Madam President. Heartbreaking and heartwarming. For example, a care professional recently summarized daily life in a nursing home. It's recognizable and not just for nursing homes. Heartwarming when you look at the unbridled commitment of healthcare workers, volunteers and teachers. May I also mention the military in this context? Support for crises comes out again; something to take with it after the crisis. Heartbreaking on the other side. Saddened by the sudden death of loved ones, the pain of losing your dear father or mother, unable to meet husband or wife. That's the other side. The sad and the hopeful came together during the past Easter days. The British Queen Elizabeth also said it very nicely in a speech: "Pasen has not been cancelled. In fact, we need Easter, the good message of Christ's resurrection, more than ever." Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the number of people who end up on the ic's with corona is decreasing a bit. We are now seeing more and more, and rightly so, the spotlight on the situation outside hospitals: nursing homes, home care and people with a personal budget. The lack of protective equipment has not simply been solved with the new distribution model. We owe it to the health care workers to continue to use this force with all our power. When it came to the intensive care departments, we could easily see how we actually stand every day. That's a little trickier now. How do we measure whether the intended protection works, for example in nursing homes, at home or in homes? Should there not be a much clearer and more unambiguous registration so that we can see the number of deaths, I ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Corona measures are also very difficult for people with physical or intellectual disabilities. One-and-a-half-meter care in a sector where loving touch is so important. I would like to call again for sufficient personal protective equipment for this sector. If the measures are to be relaxed in the future, they will of course be considered slowly, even though we all realise that this cannot be achieved tomorrow, and it is also a question of tailor-made work. This proved very nice yesterday from a video conversation with young people with a physical disability in Ridderkerk. They said on the one hand, "Be very careful. We also belong to those vulnerable people. We shouldn't think about getting it." But on the other hand, they hope that any relaxation can apply not only to others but also to them. So I would also like to say this: think also of the extra space that vulnerable people need in the one and a half meters society. Mr. Chairman. When we look at a sensible way back to a more normal living together, I also want to be able to weigh carefully the opportunities and risks of using apps on a voluntary basis. We do not want to commit in advance. I would argue that we should also consider a plan without using apps. Is everything just bet that it has to be done with apps anyway? It is good that the mouth caps are also part of the exit strategy, I understand at least. Earlier, I called for attention to be paid to the legal framework of all measures. The motion I tabled with Mr Jetten last week, I hope, will be put to the vote this evening. It is a good thing that the cabinet allows all kinds of sectors to think about preparing for one-and-a-half-metre society, but I miss attention to the churches. Is there also a proper consideration of the conditions under which more people can be reunited in divine service? Is there any thought about one-and-a-half meter church services? Finally, Mr President. At this time of corona and restrictive measures, our world can become small. However, let us not forget vulnerable people further away from home, in countries with poor care. I agree with Mr Heerma, who asked for an urgent opinion from the International Questions Advisory Council to see what could be a useful focus for the Dutch contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has an unprecedented impact on people who are ill, including those who care for them, on their family members, on entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, teachers and young people. 17 million people with one thought: how do they, side by side, get through this crisis? Mr. Chairman. Is there anything positive to report or is there no hope? Sure, because in a very harsh way, this virus also brings us closer together. We're seeing great developments. We see Diederik, Latifah and Winston working together in healthcare. Neighbor Loes gets her groceries from neighboring boy Cemil. People share meals and look at each other. There is an eye for the less fortunate. 17 million people longing for the end of this nasty era. Mr. Chairman. I was shocked during the briefing this morning by the situation at the nursing homes. I ask myself a question that I asked this morning, and I also ask the government: have the nursing homes been put too much behind in the distribution of tests and protective equipment? I realize that there is a shortage and that it is essentially a redistribution of poverty, but wasn't the focus too much on the ic's? It is unacceptable that in 900 of the 2,500 nursing homes there are corona infections, especially because there are the most vulnerable. I would like a reflection from the government: how did this happen? How is the government going to do everything to protect our elders in nursing homes? As hospital admissions fall, careful thought can be given to a phased relaxation of the measures. A number of countries have already started to do so. Austria, Finland, Denmark, Norway and a number of other countries are beginning to open shops and schools with caution. That gives the citizen courage. But what measures, which involve minimal risks but give freedom to citizens, can be put in place? How does the cabinet intend to achieve an intelligent way of giving society more freedom in the long term? Mr. Chairman. During this crisis, social, cultural and religious institutions are also struggling. Social institutions suffer from fewer volunteers and less income. Religious institutions such as churches and mosques, the Ramadan, are also approaching, and cannot collect donations. What can the government do for these social and religious institutions? Can the government set up a window where they can go if they really get into trouble? Last week, the Prime Minister indicated that he would speak to Islamic organisations if there were signs of problems with funerals. Those signals are full of them. At the moment, the Netherlands has only three places where eternal grave rest is assured: Almere, Nuenen and Bergen op Zoom. New cemeteries are expensive; they cost a lot of money. DENK hears from Dutch Muslims that there are hardly any suitable places. Their loved ones are kept in cool rooms. I therefore ask the government once again whether it is prepared to talk to Islamic organisations, municipalities and other relevant parties instead of waiting, to bring them closer together and to find a solution to this problem. Finally, Mr President, the fate of many Dutch people who are stuck abroad and especially in Morocco. They cannot return and sometimes need medical care. What can the cabinet do to bring these Dutch back? Finally. People crave hope and trust. People need a little support and the economy craves an impulse. Isn't it time to finally pay out the €1,000 promised by this Prime Minister? With this, we are hitting three birds with one stone: people in trouble get relief, it is a boost for the economy and this Prime Minister finally delivers his promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you. We find ourselves in four weeks of the lockdown, and according to the Prime Minister, it is very much a question of when the rules will be relaxed. This while every day counts. In particular, the situation is deteriorating very rapidly forzzp'ers and small businesses. About 30% to 40% are on falls, according to the latest reports. We cannot afford to continue to muddy for weeks or maybe even months. Many countries around us are already taking concrete steps to get back to work in a controlled manner. Meanwhile, our cabinet refuses to give any insight into what measures are now being taken to achieve a smooth exit in our country, except for the fact that we are working very busy on all kinds of apps that would allow everyone to be closely monitored. But what the circumstances are or how that will work, we haven't heard about that yet. Since the first week of the lockdown, the Democracy Forum has set out very concrete conditions for a smart exit strategy in any case. Two words: testing and mouth caps. Let's test it first. To develop a controlled exit strategy, it is essential to know to what extent the virus is among us. How many people have the virus and how many people have had the virus? Blood bank data show that around 3% of donors have antibodies, but it is unclear whether this number is representative for the rest of the population. Where in our country are they located? What population groups do they belong to? What age groups are they in? It's weird that we still don't know this right. Again and again we hear as an excuse that the test material is so scarce. Not everyone in the Netherlands can be tested. That is why I tabled a motion more than two weeks ago to organise a representative sample as soon as possible. The Minister then advised against this motion because that sample would already be taken. That's what he said. The motion would therefore be superfluous. But this week we received signals yesterday it was still on the NIS that it would not be true at all that a sample is already being taken. I therefore ask the Minister once again to explicitly share with us the state of play of the representative sample. When will we receive the results? And why did this take so long? Then the masks. Should we not consider extending people's freedom of movement and reducing their risks by allowing masks or oral protection in certain areas and in certain sectors? No, I was told last week, the one-and-a-half meter standard is working. A doctor might say it works, but an economist will think otherwise. And health and economics would continue to go hand in hand. That's what the Prime Minister said. Also about mouth caps is repeated that there would be so much scarcity. But what is it? Is the Dutch now recommended not to wear a mouth cap because mouth caps would not work, or because they are scarce? The Netherlands is entitled to the fair story. If masks would not work, how can it be that all countries around us, Belgium, Germany, Austria, etc., require or recommend masks? Or if they are so terribly scarce, how can these countries have enough? Is it perhaps because in February this cabinet sent a Boeing full of mouth caps to China and shit to demand them back? Finally, how does the Minister respond to statements by Mr De Blok, who reported yesterday at Nieuwsuur that there is a created shortage because the cabinet simply does not use all the available resources to tackle the deficits? How come he was warned not to have too much criticism in public? He said there was a culture of fear. What's going on? What's taking so long? The honest story, I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u44	Thank you, Mr President. As many as 100 scientists warn the Cabinet of the dangers of using apps in the fight against COVID-19. They point out the dangers to our fundamental rights and freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. The use of apps has far-reaching societal implications. My question to the Minister is: are the recommendations of these scientists, as well as maintaining the possibility of deciding not to use the apps, being embraced by the Cabinet? Is the Minister aware that these apps set a precedent for future use? At what point in this crisis does the Minister say: that is enough; now we are stopping these unprecedented far-reaching measures? This also applies to the inspection of millions of medical records without permission. Mr. Chairman. Then vaccines. The Netherlands has sold its renowned Dutch Vaccine Institute. Now that a vaccine is being sought worldwide with a race against the clock, the last part of our institute is for sale. In 2009, Minister Klink already stressed that the investigation was to remain in government hands. Former Minister Schippers went for the sale anyway, hoping the market would pick it up. But it turns out private pharmaceuticals don't see much bread in vaccine development. The gap that the Netherlands had in the field of vaccine development has evaporated. Now all hope is built on international cooperation. That is good and badly needed, but we have also learned by now that countries generally take care of themselves first. That will not be different when the vaccine is distributed. That is why I ask the Minister: is the Netherlands still able to develop and produce vaccines at cost without the NSA? Mr. Chairman. Finally. America is threatening to stop funding the World Health Organisation. It's a life-threatening decision. Is the Prime Minister prepared to advocate in Europe taking over this funding at European level in order not to jeopardise ongoing investigations and ongoing vaccination programmes? Because if Europe doesn't, China will. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u46	Mr. Chairman. The daily number of hospitalisations is falling steadily and the number of people who die per day has also fallen enormously. So the lockdown works, and that's positive. What does not work is a large part of Dutch business. The damage caused by the corona measures is of unprecedented proportions. In the meantime, you may wonder why the economic and social interest has become so far out of the picture. Business as well as the cultural sector is hit hard. It is time to restore balance between mortality on the one hand and the collapse of society on the other, before it is too late. We need to get out of this lockdown as fast and as smart as we can. Horeca open, schools open, concert buildings open, where necessary with adjustments. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the damage to business and the cultural sector is now so great that this needs to be taken more seriously into account? Should we not now add economists, lawyers and engineers to the crisis team in order to broaden the perspective? Do you agree with me that industry associations, companies and institutions themselves should be able to come up with plans within the corona frameworks and thus be able to start up faster? Mr. Chairman. The protective effect of mouth caps for other than the wearer is categorically denied. While in Taiwan and China, but now also in Austria, Belgium and Germany, mouth caps show positive effects, in the Netherlands we do it as false safety. My motion on masks, tabled last week together with Comrade Baudet, was incomprehensiblely dissuaded and voted out of tune. Again, does the Minister agree with me that mouth caps can actually protect the other and can therefore be instrumental at a restart? Mr. Chairman. serological tests should also become part of the reboot. Many countries, including Finland, are testing massively. The information obtained from it is of great value when determining the startup scenario. Does the Minister agree with me that people who have already had corona could, for example, benefit from a more flexible regime? Mr. Chairman. For the rest, I believe that the lockdown should be lifted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u48	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to do the division of roles as follows. I will make a few introductory remarks myself and then answer questions about the exit strategy, the questions that have been asked about the international aspect of the fight against the crisis and then a few loose questions. After that, Hugo de Jonge, Minister of VWS, will answer all questions about care, including the homeless and the quarantine. Hugo, those are for you, huh? Then that's true. Having said that, several of you have drawn attention to this, and I would like to say this in my very brief introduction to all those who are so incredibly committed to our society. I agree with that. You always come across new insights into this crisis. One of the insights that gradually begins to emerge from all of us is the enormous amount of volunteering that arises. At first, that was a very strong offer from people who said they would like to help as volunteers, for example in people who can't walk their own dog because they're single and they're in home quarantine, or eat cooking or pick up medicine, all that kind of practical stuff. In the meantime, you can also see that the demand for this kind of aid is increasing enormously. And then you come across wonderful initiatives to bring that together. I was in contact with Deedmob this morning, a social attack start-up, which brings supply and demand together, using all kinds of regional and local voluntary initiatives. Afterwards I had a conversation with the Volunteerscentrum Utrecht. They work with the site coronahelpers.nl. That is the site that is made possible by the aforementioned company, where you can bring supply and demand together. I can say I'm willing to walk someone's dog, but, yeah, how do I find someone to walk the dog from? So you'll need to get it all put together again. I just think that's very nice to see. Last week I talked about the role of churches in society, which are now making contact with their members of the congregation in a very different way. This is another example where you can see that wonderful initiatives are being launched. I say this in addition to Mr Wilders and others, who pointed out the heroes, the truck drivers who ensure that the supermarkets are supplied, up to and including the care of the people in public transport, the people who enable distance education, and all the others who are now delivering such special achievements. The second introductory remark is also my bridge to the first subject, the exit strategy. I really want to warn against the idea, which I hear here and there, that things are going so well now that we will probably announce next week that a lot of things are going to be relaxed the following week. I don't know if that's true at all. I'm not so happy or so positive about the numbers myself. They develop in a slightly more favourable direction, in the sense that you no longer see that, for example in intensive cares, the unmanageability increases. But there are still more than 1,200 people on the ic right now. That is more than there ever are on the ic in the normal situation, because that is 1,150 and now 1,200 only because of corona. One of the things that is also important, of course, is how to make the scheduled operations possible again. How do you make sure that enormous workload in intensive care becomes manageable again? At the same time, you must continue to plan for a situation in which peaks occur again. You saw the numbers today at the hearing. They go back towards the end of April, beginning of May, we expect, but so far, those predictions have not always been totally reliable. The virus doesn't always stick exactly to our models. I really want to warn you about that. We are in battle with a treacherous virus, which constantly surprises us negatively, because new developments are taking place or new insights about how that virus is spreading and developing. We have to deal with that every time we think about it. This is a collective approach. We don't have a fixed route planner that says exactly how we get from A to B. We need to shape this partly in practice, and that means that I am really warning against the idea that anything can be expanded in the coming period. What you have to do is think about that phase if you can. If it were possible to expand something, if there's space, how does that work? The question of whether there will be room is, of course, a political decision. You do that on the basis of the scientific advice. There was also a question here and there whether you should add people to the OMT with knowledge of the economy? No, please don't, let me put that very sharply. I wouldn't want that. I would really like to separate the Outbreak Management Team, which deals with how the virus is spreading, from it. Against the background of the three important criteria that we mentioned in the press conference yesterday, too, 1. the concern can be dealt with, 2. how are things going with the vision and understanding of the spread of the virus and 3. the position of the elderly and other vulnerable in society? Of course, I'm craving that relaxation just like everyone else. But it has to be possible, because if you do it too fast, it will of course lead to great damage in the longer term, rising numbers of people dying and a huge pressure on care. To those who say "yes, but the economy..." Agreed. The economy is very important, but if we make a mistake now, the economy will be severely damaged. Because then you have besides that more people die and the pressure on care increases again, a lot of economic damage because at that time you have to row back very firmly again. Even if you do all this well, and we're going to try it all together, and if you expand something, you might still notice that you might have just misjudged the effect of an enlargement. Because you can't model everything exactly to the last digit behind the decimal place. Or there are effects that you haven't been able to fully foresee, so you may have to decide at some point to reverse an extension. We can do that in the near future too. As long as we don't have the vaccine, that's the fight we're having with each other against that virus. Fortunately, you can see at this moment that the figures are now developing slightly more favourably than in the weeks before. That's the positive thing about this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u50	I'll see if you do...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u51	This was introductory. So now I come to two issues. I wanted to say something about the exit strategy and internationally, and I wanted to address two separate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u52	Yeah, I'm fine. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u53	I support the Prime Minister's line: the Outbreak Management Team advises very sec on the dissemination and so on; the measures must be considered politically and possibly involving other experts. I have a question about what the Outbreak Management Team advises. For example about the usefulness and necessity of testing whether the mouth caps came from the Outbreak Management Team also the remark: beware, you will have false positives or false negatives; that is a false safety and then it doesn't help anything. The same Outbreak Management Team says you need an app, while playing the same issues. If that app isn't reliable, then we have false positives or false negatives and the same false security. How does the Prime Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u54	So here you see how complex it is. I therefore agree with the substance of Mrs Ouwehand's speech. In a moment Hugo de Jonge will discuss tests, mouth caps and other issues that arise. But you also see that because of the scarcity we had, we had to make choices: in nursing homes, the first two people who get sick tested, and then no longer because of the test capacity. Fortunately, there is now room to test everyone who has cold symptoms and to test the front line care staff who has direct contact with residents. None of that was possible at first. We could only do that in the hospitals first. That's extensive. Mrs Ouwehand is also right that, of course, you are gradually integrating the insights and the new international insights into policy. Mr De Jonge will be addressing the mouth caps in a moment; indeed, you should not be too sure about that. You don't know exactly what the role of mouth caps can be in the longer term. Maybe they'll help with the exit strategy. That question has also been asked by a number of you. Of course, we are going to ask the OMT: can a mouth cap help in a transitional phase or in certain situations, for example in contact professions? I thought Jaap van Dissel said something about that at today's hearing. Of course, these kinds of issues are going to arise. In that sense, they are not black and white answers. This virus, which we don't know so much about, is unfortunately not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u56	I would like to touch on the point made by Mr Asscher and others. And then I come to the first cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u57	Mr Klaver would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u58	Let's talk about the OMT's point. I understand very well that in a crisis, adapting the crisis organisation to itself is already risky. However, I would like to consider that more expertise is needed because we are entering a different phase. I'm looking, for example, at what's happening now in the nursing homes. As difficult and exciting as it may be, in the hospitals this has been done really well and tightly. They were at the OMT table. Nursing care wasn't there at the table. That's where you see bigger problems. I think it is precisely at this stage that more expertise is needed, for example when it comes to nursing homes or care for the elderly, but also when schools need to be opened up again. Then you also need people with knowledge of behavioural effects: how are people going to respond to certain measures? If I hear Jaap van Dissel speak impressively again this morning in the Chamber, I have every confidence in how he speaks about the development of the virus and its significance. But when he talks about the behavior effect of using or not using mouth caps, I would say: I think there are other specialists for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u59	In itself: once. There are two ways. The Outbreak Management Team should advise us on the space that arises against the background of the speed with which the virus spreads. And then there are the three anchor points I just mentioned: the position of the elderly, the question of whether the care can handle it and visibility and insight into the spread. That's what you want the OMT to do. I agree with Mr Klaver that you should always take a critical look at whether the OMT has the right composition for that. I think the nursing home sector is currently represented in the OMT. I hear beside myself that this has been the case for a month. Anyway, I get that you have to keep checking if the OMT has the right composition considering the type of medical questions. In addition, Mr Asscher and others asked: how do you involve experts? For example, behavioral effects can be thought of as anthropologists et cetera. I agree with that, but I can see that, especially given the fact that space is defined at some point, in the light of the question: what are you going to do with that space? I tried yesterday in the short press moment to outline two dilemmas. The first dilemma is: if there is a little space and you want to keep a distance of 1.5 meters from each other, what does that mean for public transport? If you were to transfer that 1.5 meters one-on-one to the O.V., then the capacity of O.V. would be greatly reduced. Suppose the universities open and all the students get back on the train. Then you have the chance that the train is already filled with students. So how do you deal with that, given the one-and-a-half-metre range wish? How can you maintain it or not in public transport? A second is crowd management. You'd hope at some point I'm an avid patio visitor that you live in a country where one day you can go to a terrace. But you also know that these terraces can often be reached through alleyways and that beach tents have steps to the boulevards, where people collide. So how are you gonna shape that crowd management? Well, that's still conceivable, of course, by putting solid people with a yellow shirt that ensures that those groups spread as widely as possible over those narrow paths. That whole aspect is one dilemma. A second dilemma that I wanted to outline in the press yesterday is the dilemma that, apart from the economic impact it has, there are of course other social issues. I mentioned the fact that you can't delay surgery indefinitely. Of course, that also has an effect. That is also an effect of this crisis. The risk of the crisis after this crisis is that you have a huge reservoir of planned operations. But how planned were they anyway? How long can you delay cancer surgery? How long can you delay certain other interventions, because there is currently too little ic capacity? So we are now looking very closely at what can be done again. So that's what you need to look at. Besides physical effects, there are mental effects. I refer to people who sit at home for a long time and unite, domestic violence that might increase; all these kinds of issues. So you have all these things to look at. The only thing I'd like to argue in favour of is keeping the OMT medically. I say to Mr Klaver: yes, with a constant critical view, it has exactly the composition to describe the space that hopefully arises or which does not arise as well as possible and to take into account what that means for different medical sectors. And besides, if that space is defined, of course, that is ultimately a political decision of the cabinet based on the OMT opinion and also in connection with the debate here with the Chamber of Representatives, the question arises: what are you going to do with that space? How do you put it in the best possible way? And then you also come to questions relating to schools, young people, the economy, companies etc. That's actually what I wanted to say. I therefore agree with Mr Asscher that you should involve all this expertise, but I would not like to bring it into the OMT. That second expertise, I'd really like to separate it from the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mr Asscher and then Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u61	It is precisely in the absoluteization of the 1.5 metres that I think there is a problem in sketching the dilemma. We heard this morning from Van Dissel that he does not advise masks, because this is supposed to have a behavioural effect. Other countries do, for example in the Federal Republic of Germany. If the cabinet now gives the Netherlands, on the basis of the OMT advice, that we are all going to think in those 1.5 meters, then you miss the opportunity to take perhaps much more sensible measures. That raises the question: are you well advised? Is there a broad enough view of behavioural effects, for example? I think that Dutch people are quite capable, provided you explain it correctly, of acting wisely in places where you cannot keep a distance of 1.5 meters, so that they do not infect another. So if there's not going to be an extension of the OMT, fine. But at least set up a transition management team to get a fair picture instead of all focusing on those 1.5 meters, with those possible harmful consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u62	I get that, and that's what we're looking at. In that sense, I agree with Mr Asscher. For example, look at the contact professions. You have to have a really big pair of scissors to keep your hair off, and then it's the question if there's anything left of your ears at all. In these contact professions, the 1.5 meter is simply not manageable. One of the things that we ask the OMT to look at is: can you do something with mouth caps in such a situation? One thing that really wakes me up, of course, is public transport. Then I think: boys, if you actually have to maintain the 1.5 meters in public transport, the capacity is falling very much. But I'm not an expert; the OMT must advise us on what can be done there. I am not saying that it is, but it is claimed by some that Tacitus: there are sources that claim, and there are others that deny that, in certain situations, the mask can lead to false safety. There are other sources that say: it depends just on how you use them exactly, what instructions you give and so on. So to all those who say, "Don't be a zelotic anti-mouther," I say, once. We just need to keep looking at what's possible and ask the Outbreak Management Team for advice on this. Eventually it is also a medical weighing: how big is the risk if you, for example, sit on the train with a mouth cap and don't maintain the 1.5 meter? What are the risks on the street? At the same time, the Chamber today heard Van Dissel say that the OMT is already looking at the contact professions without asking. So, in itself, I agree with Mr Asscher, but at the moment the insights we are getting are still pushing, asking and asking that the mouth cap is not generally the alternative to the one-and-a-half-metre society. I'm afraid not. That brings, as it seems now, too many risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u63	Let's talk about the sources. There are sources that say that mouth caps actually work, that oral protection actually works. At what time does the Prime Minister expect to have a ruling on this? I think it is essential for the exit strategy that we do not have to keep those 1.5 metres away everywhere. Public transport has already been mentioned, but it is also about catering and other things, such as sports associations. You know, when you play tennis, you get a lot of distance from each other. So in certain places, people can go in with a mouth cap, for example, and then they can play. You can gradually open up so many economic and social activities again controlled, if you are flexible with those 1.5 meters. It is of the utmost importance that we adopt a position on this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u64	I thought I gave that answer to Mr Asscher just now, but very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u65	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u66	Okay. I thought so, but now. We ask the OMT in the steps that you can gradually set in motion as we get the virus under control, weigh it or help masks, at least in sectors where it is very difficult to maintain 1.5 meters, such as in the contact professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u67	This isn't an answer, is it? This is an effort: we're going to ask them. When are we going to get a position on that so we know where we stand? It'll be April 28th in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u68	I honestly expect the OMT to advise us in the context of next week's decision-making on how to proceed with the whole package after 28 April. I wouldn't be surprised. That's what we expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u69	I shall then give the floor to Mr Jetten and then to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u70	The Prime Minister just spoke about crowd management and he used the understandable metaphor of yellow hoes, which ensure that we all move safely in the public space. We know that the Cabinet is also considering the use of apps to partly shape that exit strategy. Can the Prime Minister confirm that that app isn't going to be some kind of digital anklet to keep people at home if they're suspected of being infected? And it's not going to be a digital passport where you have to have a green check mark on your app to even move in public space?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u71	I think I can confirm both, but further on, De Jonge goes into the apps. But I can confirm it, at least in the direction that Mr Jetten hoped. Otherwise, it's unclear what I've confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u72	We are now at a kind of tilting moment, where after the first concern and the first hecticness of the crisis we are going to think about an exit strategy. The Minister for Economic Affairs has said that we are going to ask sectors to draw up plans. I assume that is much broader than just the employers or the companies that do so. I assume that trade unions are also involved and others in society. I believe that what society is looking forward to or is very much in the interest of it is the perspective that the cabinet or the Prime Minister can outline of where we are going, where we are, how long it will take and what it will take to actually walk that exit. Say a farther away perspective than the casuistics that we are in every time and are actually very busy every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u73	I just don't know if it'll make you happy when you hear my assessment. I'm not optimistic about what's possible after April 28th, but I'm not a medic. I'm gonna wait for the Outbreak Management Team to come up with, but if you see how many people are on the ICU right now, if you see that almost 200 people have died again today, if you see that almost 200 people have entered the hospitals today, then I'm not optimistic, but I'm not an expert. I really want to base myself on the advice of the OMT and I sincerely hope that it will be possible to make it clear next week that you can relax on a few points, but I think that will be limited. Then you regularly look again to see if relaxations are possible. You can also see in other European countries that the lockdowns are largely extended. Here and there, as in Austria and Belgium, there are some relaxations, but this is about things that we have not done in the Netherlands. Those were cases that weren't closed here. Education is a separate issue. I'll get back to you in a minute to see what might be possible there. This is also an issue which naturally arises. But the only perspective I can give is that we're dealing with a virus that, as long as there's no vaccine and as long as there's no group immunity,............................................................................................................................................. The best way to fight that is to keep a foot and a half away. Again, we've talked about the masks now. Maybe Hugo de Jonge is going to say something about that, but that's not the panacea, that's not the alternative to that 1.5 meter. Maybe in a few places where that 1.5 meter really can't be maintained, but it's not an alternative to your 1.5 meter. It is now really the impression we get that this is not the case. It would be fantastic if it were. Given all these facts, I really want to tell the Netherlands that I tried to do that yesterday, too, that we are on the right track, that we can have endless reflections about what this means, philosophically and socially for the country. But in the end, it's all very practical: it's just a virus that's very dangerous and that, if you don't keep five feet away and someone's got it, can jump on you. And then the chance of you getting very sick is really present. You can tell by the mortality rate. So the only perspective I can give is that it's gonna be with us for a while. That is why we are talking about the 'new normal, one and a half meters society'. And that is why we will always have to look at how it develops in the care, vision and insight into the virus, the position of vulnerable people in society and what can be done. I sincerely hope that next week we can say: there can be something more than we are doing now. I hope so, but there is absolutely no certainty about that at the moment. We may also have to come to the conclusion next week that the whole package is still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u74	That's a very honest answer. And indeed, the Prime Minister probably can't make it any better, even though we would all like to. It's an honest answer. At the same time, however, sectors, "the society" have been asked to develop and reflect on plans. Is that a question in width? Who's gonna agree with that? Who gets to develop plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u75	Both. Businesses, civil society organisations. For example, we now have protocols inside for safe and responsible taxi and care transportation, or for responsible shopping. These protocols are, by the way, public, I should like to say in reply to Mr Asscher, who, in my view, asked that question. So that's what we're working on. Because of course you want to say: boys, let's say there's room, how are you gonna arrange in your sector to maintain that 1.5 meters, to make sure that the hygiene rules are respected, that people can wash their hands, that all the things we want can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u76	Mr. Wilders, but then we wait. Okay, that mic's clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u77	Madam President, we have it already...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u78	I've never seen you on that side of the Chamber before. That's the very first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u79	It's about a foot and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u80	Yeah, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u81	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about mouth caps, protective equipment for about 15 minutes now and to what extent that fits in with the exit strategy. But I asked the Prime Minister in my term of office for one of the biggest blunders that the Netherlands has unfortunately made in recent months, and that is that, despite warnings from the World Health Organisation, we sent millions of mouth caps and other protective equipment to China in February. This has been done with the help of the Dutch Government. The State Department has secured landing rights. In the meantime, we are in serious deficit. Even then, especially after that, when the virus also came to the Netherlands. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister if he knew about that at the time. Does he agree with me that this was a very unwise and perhaps fatal decision of the Dutch Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u82	No, I disagree. It was a humanitarian flight that came to collect relief supplies collected by the Chinese embassy and companies. There's no way the government's stuff's in there. We have not delivered anything and we ourselves have not contributed in kind. The only thing we did on 7 February was to regulate landing rights, because it was a humanitarian flight. At that time, through the WHO, we also contributed 1 million to the fight against corona in Wuhan in China, because of the enormous humanitarian need that arose there. I would like to tell Mr Wilders something. Suppose the Netherlands had said that we would not give landing rights for this humanitarian flight, an initiative of the Chinese embassy and companies, without Dutch equipment on board. What would happen at the moment to flights from China with the necessary equipment we need here, does Mr Wilders think? I don't think the Chinese would be very active in making those flights possible. So I think it can be defended from a humanitarian point of view. There's no Dutch equipment on board. If you hadn't done it, you would have run a huge risk right now in your relationship with China, which is very important. I called the Chinese Prime Minister last week. I thanked him for the intensive cooperation between China and the Netherlands. All the help has also been promised over and over again he to us, we to him to make sure that those flights are possible and that there remains an air bridge from Beijing and Shanghai to the Netherlands. That's really crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u83	I didn't get an answer to my question whether the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u84	No, I wasn't aware of that myself, and neither was AZ. You don't have to. It's a decision taken within VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u85	You weren't aware. It is a decision that has also been taken by the Foreign Office. A foreign official even says it in the newspaper: "A concerned official looks back and says: we thought we were invulnerable." In other words, we shouldn't have done it. Let me address the Prime Minister. One Dutch trader in that flight alone sent five to six million mouth caps, 100,000 overalls and ten breathing machines, and that's only one................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And that shortage turned out to be there. Because of the shortage that we had in the Netherlands, we heard that again this morning at the hearing, people are less protected, including in nursing care, which has caused more people to become infected and so more people have died. The fact that we sent millions of them has had enormous consequences. At the same time, a country like Ireland has sent an Airbus to China every day for weeks to pick them up. And what does the Netherlands do? The Netherlands is going to bring planes full to China. I should at least like to hear the Prime Minister say that we should not have done that. We have made sure that we have left the Dutch heroes unprotected in the care, causing them to become infected, causing patients and clients to become infected and causing more people to die. We shouldn't have done it, Mr. Rutte! We should have kept that stuff to ourselves and not sprinkled it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u86	The situation in Wuhan on 7 February was very intense. There was an initiative in the Netherlands, from the embassy of China and Dutch companies, which said: we are going to collect for China. The only question to the Dutch government was: are you willing to allow landing rights for one humanitarian flight? Yes, we did, from a humanitarian point of view, because of the situation in China at the time. I give Mr Wilders one thing on a note: if you had not shown this solidarity with China then the chance is that the air bridge we now have with Beijing, with Shanghai, with South Korea... Quite apart from the question of whether you think that humanitarian aspect is important or not, I think it is important, but Mr Wilders does not have to agree with me. But even if you look at it from a pragmatic point of view, the chances are zero that China would now cooperate with humanitarian flights from China to the Netherlands? These are crucial at the moment and are about far greater numbers than what was brought to China humanitarianly. I think what Mr Wilders is suggesting here is really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u87	That one-and-a-half-meter society risks becoming a bit of a caricature when I hear the debate like that. I understand it as a symbol, which means that we keep the sturdy mantra from five feet away every time. But I also understand that the industries are now making proposals for how they could open up their business and that they are looking at it from a medical point of view. When people in the hospitality industry say, "I can't throw my beer at five feet," I get it. So it's more of a metaphor than you say: everything has to be 1.5 meters, except for the contact professions. You're just looking at what can be justified. Second. I just heard the Prime Minister's expectation management. Not nice, but realistic. Is it perhaps also an idea not only to focus on what things we can hopefully allow in a next phase, but also to look at the whole other side of the spectrum? I see now and then in society that people plan and move things to a date that I think is: sorry, but I really don't see that happening yet, those massive meetings. Can we continue to look forward to the side that is only next? Perhaps we can look further ahead there and make it clear that having big events with a lot of audiences is not possible, so that you do not keep hoping every four weeks that you can go to a music festival, if the medical advice is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u88	On both counts. On the second point, we are also considering whether we can reach a decision on the date of 1 June next week. We have that whole package until April 28th. One aspect, the licensed and obliged events, is until 1 June. Maybe we should see if we can say anything about that next week. I think that is in the second half of Mr Dijkhoff's question. We see that Belgium and I thought Germany had already made far-reaching decisions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u89	We have now taken a number of very generic measures. We've banned all sports, and we've closed down all the restaurants. That was understandable. There was, of course, some panic at the time. Suppose that within the existing measures proposals come from industry associations and institutions. For example, a proposal from the KNLTB, the tennis association, to prove within the existing measures that if you are playing tennis you simply stand at 20 meters apart or to occupy for example 2,200 places in the Concertgebouw, but 700, so within the existing measures. Is the Prime Minister then prepared to take a favourable look at this, to see if we can get started so quickly within the existing measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u90	This is precisely why I found Mr Van Haga's contribution weak in the first term. I'm just gonna say it real loud. I really didn't agree with him. He puts the economy first and it's a fallacy to do that. It's a lie. If we make mistakes now, the economic damage will not be seen, apart from the fact that many people will die and care will become overloaded again. So from an economic point of view, it is really unwise to start talking about meetings of 700 people now. Yeah, you ask the Concertgebouw and the cinemas to think, say something can happen again, how does it work? But look at the consequences of that. It's not just the cinemas. If terraces or cinemas ever open again, regardless of how they organize it in terms of the 1.5 meters, that also means that many more people are going to walk down the street again and that many more people are going to use public transport. That has direct effects on the risk of people colliding against each other and that they can't maintain that 1.5 meters, even if they want to. We really have a very practical problem here in the end. It's a virus that attacks us incredibly falsely in the back and you know only one thing for sure, namely that the chance of me handing it over to Mr. Van Haga is going to be a lot smaller if he and I keep a foot and a half away. That's actually the only thing we really know with pretty much certainty. All the other things we'll have to see. There are 1,200 people on the ICU. I hope RIVM is right about 500 to 700 at the end of this month, but look how slowly it's falling at the moment. See how two weeks ago we thought you could do it with 1,150. Then you had 550 corona. Now it's 1,200 corona and we're already glad it didn't turn 2,400. No, no, it isn't. But it's still 1,200. That means that there's now zero room, except lucky for people with a heart attack or a car accident, for people with scheduled surgery. That's also health damage. You can't postpone endlessly planned operations. I therefore also ask Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet, who have both argued in favour of keeping that balance. We need to keep that balance. It's not a balance, a trade-off, between economics and health. It's two sides of the same coin. The economy also suffers serious damage if we do it wrong and then close everything again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u91	The Prime Minister is making it a bit of a caricature, I think. Of course, I didn't put economics above people's health. I have just asked for that balance to be struck and it can be found by Mr Delors. I have asked a simple question: what is possible within the current measures? I gave the example of that tennis court. If you're 20 meters away, can't a tennis trainer just give tennis lessons again within the existing measures? Instead of these generic measures, I would like to ask you whether you are prepared to look at certain specific measures which could therefore be an exception within those generic measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u92	I don't want to be the tough schoolmaster who says "I'm willing or not." I am willing to do anything and I sincerely hope that we can all play tennis again, hug, play football and everything. It's not me. It's the virus. None of us came up with that virus. What's the risk if you suddenly open up sports clubs again? I mean, there's gonna be consequences, right? People go there, so they might have to get on the bus, the tram and the train. I see Mr Jetten saying: they are going to drink. Then it'll be safe when they take the bus, but then that bus is too full again. But what does it mean to go down the street? This means that many more people are walking the streets again, while the message is now: stay home as much as possible. If you go outside, do it with as little other people as possible and don't go shopping like a trip with your kids and your wife or husband. If you develop complaints, stay home. And if you're gonna have trouble with your fever, the whole family's gonna stay at home. That's the stage we're in! We are not yet in the stage where we can play tennis again! I'm sorry; that's the hard message. I'm not saying this because I don't want us to be able to play tennis here; please. Besides, I'm not into tennis myself; I'm into other sports again. But the point is that it just doesn't work yet. And then I want us all to try not to give the impression to the Netherlands that a few people here in the Chamber say that we can't, because they don't like it. No, it just can't be done yet. You'd love to. I hate the fact that we're in a totally different society than we had before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u93	Sorry, but now the Prime Minister is making another caricature of the example. I used this example because it's so extreme. All sports are closed, even for someone on a tennis court. He is 20 meters away from his fellow player and thus largely meets that one-and-a-half-metre society. So that would be a good example. For the rest, half of them are on their backs. People go bankrupt. So is the Prime Minister prepared to look at it if there were any exceptions within those generic measures that could fit within that one-and-a-half meter economy? That way we could start faster. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u94	It's not my fault; I'm willing to do anything, but the virus isn't willing to do it. That's the problem. It's not me; it's the virus. Seriously! If you decide too soon to open the sports associations, it may well be settled within those sports associations with that 1.5 meter distance. I agree with Van Haga. At the same time, however, there are many people on the streets, while there are 1,200 people on the ICUs, almost 200 people have died today and 200 more are sick in the hospitals. We're really not there yet. The message is therefore: stay home as much as possible. The message is not: go back to playing tennis. Seriously, I'm not making a caricature out of what Van Haga says. I also said yesterday in my press statement: the fact that these tennis clubs and sports clubs are closed also causes health damage. After all, it also means that we are at risk of moving less. It all has two sides. But if you're not sure if the care is up to it, if you're not sure yet that you can have vision and insight into the spread of the virus, it's too dangerous, for my part at least, to start giving the impression that we can weigh that kind of thing. What I do want is for tennis clubs to think about what they can do, assuming there's some scope for expansion. Then how can you organize it? I assume that's at the tennis club: baseline, but not on the net. Soccer? Yeah, how are you gonna do it over there? The kickoff at five feet? I don't see it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u95	The only way we can win the battle against the corona virus is if we do it together. That's what the Cabinet says a lot, and I think that's true. My question is: does this also apply to the pharmaceutical industry? What has the government done so far with our proposal that there should be no monopoly on the corona vaccine? And in line with this, I have another question. That is why I am asking this question to the Prime Minister. Doesn't the cabinet really regret that we have so fundamentally moved a lot of production abroad? I am thinking here of the production of personal protective equipment, but also of medicines and the development of a vaccine. And is the cabinet also prepared to see if we can do some more of that in our own country? That would, of course, be a solution now, during the corona crisis, but also in the future. After all, it is painful to see how important it is to have such important industries in our own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u96	On the first question, specifically about the vaccine, please let Hugo de Jonge give the answer. On the second question, I say yes, once. Of course, we are now living in a world where we are extremely dependent on what is called the international supply chain in the jargon, on logistics chains. At Brexit I found that a medicine is often not even produced in two or three countries. Raw materials often come from ten countries. They are then assembled somewhere, and then it must, assembled and all, return to another country for further processing. That's extremely complex. This has also led to an enormous improvement in the quality of these medicines, which means that we can fight many more diseases; that, of course, makes it so complicated again. But you can see, for example, that we are very dependent on India, on China. We are all now seeing how dependent we are on China for personal protective equipment: see my discussion just now with Mr Wilders. So I agree, and we need to think about that fundamentally. But there is no easy answer either. Because you could say that we are going to produce the medicines all the way in the Netherlands, but you also want top-quality medicines. And where drug production really is a global commercial process, this means that you cannot simply do the production that goes beyond that of basic drugs from the State. So that is a complicated debate. But I agree in principle that we really need to face up to these kinds of issues. International logistics chains and how dependent we have become on them. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u98	Then I think that at the first point the Chamber helped me, as always. Maybe it's still in education. We hope to get an opinion from the OMT next week. Of course, we also ask the OMT ourselves about what may or may not be possible from 28 April or as soon as possible afterwards. Then, of course, I ask what can be done in education. Really, I just don't know what's going on yet. Together with all partners, these are the councils, the unions, Teachers collective, Association of School Leaders, Parents & Education, LAKS et cetera.................................................................................................................................................. After the clash between the cabinet and society about the schools, it was also said that we are going to ask RIVM to look at the risk of spreading the virus between children and children to adults and from adults to children. There may also be a difference in age cohort. We hope to have the investigation before May 1st. The boss of RIVM, Jaap van Dissel, hopes to have earlier insights on this point. So we're also gonna see next week if we can make a decision about schools on the basis of those initial insights. We're gonna see what's on the table at the time. Of course, we are going to discuss this very well with all partners. That's all there is to it now. Education remains closed anyway, because now the schools are closed until at least 6 May and sometimes 13 May, depending on spring holidays. Thinking about what can happen after 6 or 13 May is part of thinking within the Outbreak Management Team and also of the cabinet with the OMT. But once again, where that goes and how exactly that relates to the research promised, it is not yet possible to say. Churches are also included in the scenarios, I can say. They are part of the package of decision-making measures. The same goes for church meetings. Mental care providers are included in the list of key occupational groups, i.e. in the category of care and social support. We now have no signals that there are problems with access to childcare for crucial professions. Mr President, then I come to the questions that remain international and then a few separate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u99	On the previous point, Mr Asscher, and then on Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u100	We come to making choices about the transition phase not only in medical discourse, but also in other considerations. That's what the Prime Minister said here. At the same time, he says he doesn't want to change the OMT as it is now. My question is: is he prepared to make public the opinions of the departments and other organisations sent to the cabinet to make that assessment before or at the same time with the decisions? Two. Is he willing to set up a transition management team, involving that different expertise? For now we hear that protocols are being made from sectors on the basis of a comment by Wiebes, but we do not see whether there is a wide-ranging consideration of all the interests involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u101	I would like to return to both points. I think I have the answer, but I'd like to check it out. Let me just say what I think the answer is, so that officials listening in can give me a final answer later. One. The protocols are public anyway. Nor do I see any objections to making the exchange of views with sectors public, but I would like to do a check on the officials if I say something wrong. Just let me see if I'm missing something about confidentiality. So that's the first point. The second. We just have our crisis structure and everything related to it. I shall come back to that in the second term as well. It is not that there is a club that advises us aggregated "this is space and you have to do this with it." This is, of course, also a discussion which we hold within the Cabinet and which we are, of course, fully responsible for. But do all aspects come together? I am going to ask you to give us some advice on how we can shape this and see if Mr Asscher's suggestion can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u102	This is not a question for the Prime Minister, but for those listening officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u103	Oh, for the eavesdropping officials, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u104	So I didn't just ask for protocols to be made public that make sectors...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u105	No, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u106	... but above all the advice to the cabinet, for example from the various departments how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u107	That's what the Prime Minister comes back to in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u108	Clear. Through the WOB, everything comes out, so I don't see why we should keep that a secret. But we're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u109	Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u110	I had just asked about the divine services, because in the OMT report I saw questions from ministries about education, childcare, catering, retailing and contact professions. All kinds of examples were mentioned, but not gatherings and divine services. I can imagine that technical information from the Outbreak Management Team on what conditions you could set for that in the future could also be useful. Does the Prime Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u111	It is covered by meetings and meetings which form part of the package of measures on which we wish to decide. But also for this I do not see it all happening on 28 April. I also do not see the churches returning to the old level on 28 April, but I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u112	I fully agree with that, and I have always stressed that we should not count ourselves rich now that things are getting better and that this should not happen tomorrow. It could all be different tomorrow. But I do think it is important that we consider what is needed in the future in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u113	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u114	For example, I asked Mr Van Dissel this morning about the requirements for ventilation in buildings. It's useful that you don't only find out in weeks that you could take measures that you could already take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u115	Yes. I saw that in the hearing, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u116	That focus would be important, and so would other sectors. Those kinds of measures that you can already take should not be avoided unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u117	There is also talk with the sectors and the church organisations about how to set that up. Only, then the question is how much space there is. That's probably going to be a step-by-step. Everyone does not want me to say "step by step" anymore, but we will of course have to look gradually at what can be done. Then the Moroccan Dutch who are stuck in Morocco. I'm not gonna say too much about that. 6,000 people have returned until 15 March. Unfortunately, after that, we couldn't get everyone to leave. On the contrary. I understand the frustration. We're working really hard on it. We are in agreement with Morocco to organise some humanitarian flights for at least the most distressing cases, both socially and medically. We really depend on Morocco's cooperation. Everything I'm saying about that in public right now isn't gonna help. Then the chances of success are really considerably smaller, so I'm going to leave it at that. Then there are the asylum seekers in Greece. Greece is in the process of transferring vulnerable migrants to the mainland. I have always insisted on that: do so, because there is real space there. Capture on cruise ships is not excluded. That has also happened before, but they are now mainly looking at hospitality in hotels. More than 11,000 vulnerable migrants were transferred to the mainland in 2020. That is more than the Greek islands arrived in 2020. I spoke about this last time from the Netherlands in every possible way, and also from Europe through the action plan for Greece. Then there's the funding gap in the WHO. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked about that. The United States has said that we are taking 60 to 90 days to evaluate the functioning of the WTO. At the moment, it is not entirely clear whether the US is actually going to stop funding or part of it. We really hope that the United States will continue to support the WTO, because it is, of course, a really wrong signal and also an unwise decision to stop. At the moment, we do not need to look for new sources of funding, but if funding is to be stopped, then of course we need to look at it again. With regard to international aid, I would like to briefly embrace Mr Heerma's idea of requesting an urgent opinion from the AIV, the International Affairs Advisory Council. I think that's wise. All kinds of suggestions have been made, such as the 1% and all kinds of other things. It could involve the AIV. I also checked with Sigrid Kaag, my colleague for development cooperation. She's very busy. It has designed a whole package of 100 million for financing problems, for example in Africa. We are also very much looking at how we can help with very simple lung machines. The problem in Africa is that for lung machines you often have to have air pressure in hospitals. There are hospitals in the Netherlands, but there is rarely any hospitals in Africa. You need power, too. I was in Delft yesterday. It was fantastic to see how they developed a very simple lung machine there. It was actually intended for the Netherlands, but we no longer have a direct need here. They're gonna produce a whole bunch of them. It's a very simple device. It's a lung machine that can do exactly what you need for corona and not all other things. It has a very simple service. I sincerely hope that we can use them in Africa, but also wider in the Caribbean, outside our own islands. Well, we don't have any islands of our own, but I mean the islands with which the Netherlands has a connection. We're working on Guatemala and maybe some of it in Asia. The breath is literally taken away when you think about the fact that there is a real shortage in many countries in the near future. They must be simple devices, because those countries often do not have large numbers of well-trained medical staff. It was wonderful to see how they had demolished a machine from the Boerhaavemuseum yesterday that is very simple, even simpler than the machine that the students developed: a lung machine based on a lung machine in the Netherlands from the 1960s. Then I said, "But someone can be big or small." Then they said, "Well, then we take a weight off it for someone who is big and we add a weight on it for someone who is small." In the Netherlands you would never get that through the inspection and it is also far from ideal, but when it comes to the choice between a very simple mechanical machine with almost no electronics that can work on 12 volts, on solar energy versus the high-quality machines of Dräger and Philips, this can also help. That is also part of our thinking about what we can do in Africa. Mr. Chairman. Those are the international questions. Then I had two more questions in the other section.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u118	I was together with a number of parties who also asked for the AIV to see if we could table a motion in the second term. I understand the Prime Minister's undertaking here that an emergency opinion will be requested. At what time can that happen? At what time does he expect to be able to inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u119	Ask for an emergency advice? Knowing Mrs Kaag, that's what's happening now. No, that seems excessive, but I'll check it out and then I'll come back in second term to the question of how fast that can be and when it will be. You used to have civil servants in the room, but now I have to do it on the microphone. Two more questions, first of all about talking to Islamic organisations about the grave rest. I answered that question last time. The cemeteries have sufficient capacity, it appears when questioned at the National Organisation of Cemetery. Survivors can have an Islamic funeral provided by funeral caretakers and funeral homes specializing in Islamic burial. Although the wishes of the deceased in these exceptional times cannot, of course, always be respected because repatriation is not possible, the Minister of the Interior fortunately sees good opportunities for fulfilling the Islamic burial in the Netherlands. JenV and BZK ministers are in close contact with each other to discuss any signs of problems in certain places and, where possible, to seek a solution in consultation with the municipality. I told you that last time. Mr Azarkan was not there, for understandable reasons, and was then informed by my political advisor of the answer I gave. In my view, he also said that Mr Azarkan had to pass on concrete cases where it went wrong. Then I will pass them on to Grapperhaus and Ollongren, the ministers of JenV and of the Interior, so that we can solve it very practically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u120	Indeed, I was able to follow that from my room here in the Lower House last week. I was also pleased with the commitment. Apparently, there's some noise between the stories that reach me every day. People from Tiel, for example, say: "After three days of calling around I finally have a place in Rotterdam." I know that Mr Aboutaleb has indicated that this must be handled generously, but in The Hague we know the situation that there is no place and people can only be placed in cold rooms until they can be buried. I take the Prime Minister's promise seriously, in the sense that I will also tell those people that they can report to the JenV Ministry, among other things. My question at the end was: with which national coordination organisation, which states that there is no problem, has the Prime Minister been in contact? I don't know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u121	I am not one of them, but I have been informed that a survey of the departments concerned shows that the National Cemetery Organisation says that there is sufficient capacity. The Netherlands has a number of Islamic cemeteries with eternal grave rest. There are also municipal cemeteries that have a part reserved for Islamic burial, where the right holders can also prolong the grave rest. This can be done through a foundation, for example. But let's keep it practical. If there are any signals, quickly pass them on to Grapperhaus or Ollongren. It can also be done through the political advisor. You now have the 06 number of that in your phone; he will be pleased that I am now promising this. But I think he'll soon refer you to JenV and BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u122	Sure, I will. Finally. I would like to know the name of the organization that indicates that there is enough room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u123	I just mentioned it: the National Cemetery Organization. He's got to know and he says there's enough capacity. But let's keep it practical. We can now have a discussion about whether or not there is enough capacity, but if you have a case where there is no capacity, we will dive into it. Then we don't do it deductively, we do it inductively. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u124	Before you proceed, Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u125	Let me see if I got this right. I just heard the Prime Minister say that he was on a working visit in Delft, that he saw that there were ventilators there and that he intends to send them to Africa. Am I getting it together that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u126	Well, I'm not. But that could be because they were originally made for the Netherlands. There is no shortage in the Netherlands at the moment. A lot of orders have been made. I think we're really gonna get a few more thousand devices in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u127	But I don't think the question is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u128	This means that as the Netherlands, you now have the opportunity to help out of money, also very practically. The first priority was, of course, the Caribbean islands. A lot of material went there. But then you can see if you can provide support with those very simple machines that might be suitable for the specific conditions in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u129	But Mr Wilders has not finished his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u130	No, I wasn't finished. It's not about whether those devices are simple or not, and whether they come through the inspection or not. It's whether they work or not. I would say that you will ensure that these devices do not go to Africa, but that we keep them ourselves as long as the Netherlands has orders, but does not yet have them in the house, and as long as there is still a chance that we will not only not be out of the crisis now, but that the crisis, even after we have some exit strategy, will come back to a full extent later this year. As soon as you have enough and that you also think "if the crisis should continue or come back, then we have a few thousand"................................................................................................................................................................................................ Make sure they stay here in the Netherlands, because we do have a lot of orders, but we don't have them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u131	No, they'll come in now, but once. Agreed. I hear Mrs Agema say that Wilders did well. But once, yes. You don't do that until you're really sure you're in a lot of your own supplies. Finally, Mr Heerma's question as to whether the emergency package is sufficient for civil society organisations. The emergency package measures also apply to civil society organisations. Think of the temporary emergency measure bridging the gap for maintaining employment for labour costs. There are also specific measures such as the measures for the cultural sector announced yesterday by Ingrid van Engelshoven, the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. We keep looking at the instruments to see if they are enough. That was also why we had a debate last time about seasonal work, flex workers, ornamental farming, liquidity. All these issues are currently under attack in order to do more about them. The cultural sector was less covered in the debate last time, but a whole package was announced yesterday. So we are always looking at whether the instruments are sufficient and whether it is not real to change, because it is, of course, all rudely used with as little bureaucracy as possible. Sometimes you also miss certain sectors or groups. Then you try to add them again in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u132	That was all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u133	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u134	Okay. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u135	At the end of my speech I asked a question about a reconstruction from the newspaper Trouw, usually an extremely reliable newspaper. It states that up to three times, in 2016 and in 2018, an urgent opinion was given on combating pandemics and that nothing would have happened to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u136	I did have it in my set that I used in my preparation, but I do not have it right now... I'll see if I have it here. I prepared it for the press conference yesterday. Let's see. If you'll allow me, I'll do it after Mr. De Jonge. I'll come back to that. I'm gonna go look for my set, but I have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u137	Fine. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to classify the questions asked in three blocks plus a block of varia. The first is about nursing care, the second is about personal protective equipment and the third is about testing and apps. That at least reduced the number of blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u139	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u140	This could also reduce speaking time. We're gonna see. Mr. Chairman. First of all, nursing care. Many questions have been asked and many concerns expressed. I share those concerns. I have seen it called "a silent drama" a number of times in the newspaper. I don't share that. It's a tragedy for sure, but it's not quiet at all. From the start of the crisis, we have had a lot of conversation with the sector, actually just daily: what is happening, what could we do, how can we keep our finger on the pulse and what measures could help to keep that virus out, knowing how difficult that is? I heard Mr Van der Staaij say: when I speak about the nursing home sector, I hear heartwarming things on the one hand and heartbreaking things on the other. I'll share that. Of course, it's heartwarming, that crazy commitment of the staff and of all the people in the nursing homes to make sure that the virus stays outside and to control and control the virus as well as possible when it comes in. The initiatives to keep in touch, where visitors are no longer allowed, are heartwarming. Really nice. But it's heartbreaking for sure. The numbers are rising. At 900 of the approximately 2,500 locations there has been an infection. The number of deaths: the last number is 967. And then the number of new infections. The number of new sites where an infection has been is fortunately flattening. This seems to be working effectively with the measures that have been taken. But of course, the number of infections per location is still increasing. It shows how hard the virus hits nursing care. Behind all these numbers are stories of grief, of families, but certainly also of employees. Of course, they are used to working in a situation where the transience and finiteness of life pass them by every day. But the number of deaths in one department that employees now have to bear is indeed heartbreaking. That is why we have taken such measures as we have done. If somewhere plays the theme of a devilish dilemma, as the Prime Minister said in the press conference yesterday, it is here. For example, it is a diabolical dilemma when it comes to the visitor scheme, which we had to announce about four weeks ago. It worked. Well, that's a good thing, 'cause it's been a long time. If you take your father or mother to the nursing home at the time of the visitor's arrangement, knowing that he or she is demented but is just now accessible, that accountability may be over in a few months' time. It may mean that you will no longer be recognized at the end of the visitor scheme. In the hearing this morning, Verenso talked about adding days to life when adding life to the days is no longer possible. This is indeed how the visitor scheme is felt. That arrangement is hard, but necessary. The test policy has been adapted, expanded. Luckily I have succeeded in getting back to that somewhat more comprehensively in order to improve the distribution of protective equipment. All these things have been needed to control the virus in nursing care. There was also this painful question, such as Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver who asked whether you took a particular measure, whether the test policy or lack of protective equipment played a role in the number of victims. Or would it, if you could reverse the film, have led to another outcome if you had decided something else at some point? That is a difficult question, however understandable. It's okay to know that I'm asking myself the same question. The tricky thing about a question like that is that you can never answer it with certainty. The vulnerability of the people in nursing care is great. The reasons for getting sick are many things. The virus can enter via visitor or indeed through employees. The virus could go around. The virus may be detected too late. The virus can be transmitted quickly. Unlike a hospital, a nursing home is actually a kind of residential community. That reflection is, of course, good and it must be done. I do not think there is a conclusive answer at the moment, but the question whether this has contributed must be answered at some point, as far as that goes. There are always several factors or multiple reasons for an infection, so you cannot establish a one-on-one relationship, which is more complicated, but that reflection must take place. I think this is one of the questions that should be included in the evaluation. Then there is Mr Klaver's question, as well as Mr Asscher's, and I believe that it was wise to advise people to go to work if they were ill. There was a lot more subtlety in that instruction. That was about: if you work in health care, it would be unwise to comply with the general directive "if you are ill, you stay at home," because then, of course, care will stand still. At the same time, it has been said: if you are one of the crucial care workers, could you ask another to do your job that day? Have that conversation with your employer. Very often, that slide is not possible. But there's more room in that advice. We have only been able to do the real rigidity since the extension of the test policy. That was also the reason why we wanted to extend this test policy. The test policy was extended from 6 April. You asked me last week whether you should actually say: if you have any complaints, you will first test and stay at home until you have been tested. That was the opinion of the OMT yesterday, and that is also the amendment of the directive. I think you should always look at the context of the phase in which one sits, the stage in which we have been. The opinion was adopted in this context and acted on the basis of that opinion. This is how we have shaped our policy, in an ever-increasing strength, given the need for it. The last advice given by the OMT, I also followed linea recta. That advice is also clear and firm. Nursing care is also concerned with the dilemmas of the visitor scheme as it currently applies. Mr Segers, Mr Krol and Mrs Marijnissen asked for this. That is, of course, a very serious measure. You would prefer to look at the medical necessity of that protective effect that is based on the visitor scheme, which we have fortunately seen working. You would like to combine that with adding more quality of life. If then time of life is no longer given, let at least quality of life be given, you might say. That's a search you're not just out of. I can actually hear you saying two things, and I understand that, because I say two things myself. On the one hand, maximum protection for our most vulnerable people. On the other hand, at the end of their lives, give the people and their neighbors that deep human contact. Those two things aren't easy to combine. In the coming weeks, in preparation for the next stage, I would like to look at this visitor scheme, but I do not say in advance that it can be relaxed or extended, also because I do not think that that kind of words are appropriate to the seriousness of the situation we are in. I'll say: let's think about a clarification so that you learn better from all the good examples that are possible to combine that contact and quality of life with the protection that you want to offer at the same time. Yeah, I'm working on that. I am, of course, involved in this: nurses, drivers of care for the elderly, specialists in the care of the elderly and ethicists. But that's a search. That's what I'm saying. It's a search that hasn't just been completed. Mr. Chairman. I think this has given me the most important questions about nursing home care. I'm going to go into the personal protective equipment and the tests so separately. And it's also a search that hasn't just been completed. Mr President, I think I have had the most important questions about nursing care. So I will go into the personal protective equipment and the tests separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u141	Fine. I will go to Mr Klaver and then to Mr Segers, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Azarkan. Mr. Clover, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u142	While we are engaged in this debate, I am still getting reports from people working in the nursing homes and saying: on paper, that key may be different now, but we still have no protective equipment. So far this has been highlighted in every debate. There's a key now. At first, less than 10% of the funds there were went to the nursing homes. That is because we are all here, this minister in the lead, saying: we must keep our most vulnerable people safe. You don't do that if there aren't enough protective equipment. So how are we going to get from theory to practice as soon as possible, so that this week all the people who work there have sufficient protective equipment at their disposal? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna be selling nice talk around here. Because then it's true on paper, but then they won't notice. Then people leave care and then they feel abandoned by politics, and that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u143	I know those signals. Of course I know those signals. The tricky thing is that it's a combination of signals from people who are really short and who really do not feel protected enough and from nursing homes who say that their stock actually lasts only one or two days and who wonder if they have new ones in time. There is therefore an actual deficit and there is a fear that a deficit will occur in the short term. Both are both obstructive and far-reaching, not only in nursing care, but also in community care and, moreover, in disability care. It is right for Mr Klaver to say: nice, a new distribution model, but it does not count until they are in the warehouses in nursing care and when people have sufficient protective equipment. I am going to go into more detail about what we are all doing in order to obtain sufficient personal protective equipment. There is, of course, a situation of enormous scarcity worldwide. Until we have enough, therefore, we have to divide the scarcity, but that must also be done fairly. This must be done on the basis of where these protective equipment are most needed. We see that the distribution model has already made a huge shift in distribution this week. This morning's presentation by Mr De Gouw of the GGD also covered this. You can see that in the surgical mouth masks, for example. But also with the FFP1 masks and the FFP2 masks you see a shift in the distribution between the cure, i.e. hospital care, care, long-term care, nursing care. I think that's good. But it won't be ready until those signals are gone. Then it's done. Until then, I want those signals right. That is also the reason why the Landelijk Meldpunt Zorg of the inspection wants to receive these signals, because it can act on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u144	I'm glad that key has changed, at least on paper. That's what I reported. That has taken a month, while in all these debates this has been constantly called for, my colleague from the SP in the lead: please, look at that distribution; what about that? It took us a month to get there. There is a constant response to this scarcity; there is scarcity throughout the world. But when I look at the countries around us, when I look at Spain, when I look at Germany, when I look at France, I see a very different situation when it comes to these mouth caps. Then I see that there has been a different division. Then I see that in some places there is even room to give mouth caps to the people. So my question is also: do we do enough to get the right mouth caps? I still get messages from people who offer or say they can produce lots of masks. What they literally get back from the Ministry is: right now we have enough; we don't need your offer. You can shake no, but I can tell you the messages that literally state "we have enough at the moment." The practice is they're not here. So, every time we fall back on "there's scarcity" and "we have to divide the scarce resources"... We need to get more stuff. There's that offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u145	Mr President, I think it would be a good idea to simply move on to the next block, because that is about personal protective equipment. This question is indeed relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u146	Let me first look at Mr Segers for an interruption on the previous point of the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u147	I shall come back to the personal protective equipment in detail. Here's to this question, too. Just on this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u148	Yes. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u149	I'm glad the VWS Minister is starting nursing home care, because we all feel it's very exciting there. We hear and read the stories. The minister himself is also visiting a lot in the field. Those are heartbreaking stories of people who are lonely. I just read a story about someone who died in solitude in a nursing home. When you read that, your heart breaks. Hence my first question about the distribution of all these scarce resources. How can we do this in an honest way and how can we ensure that people not only have a life but also quality of life? Mr Marijnissen already referred to the proposal of the elderly's associations to see if one caregiver, one family member, could be included somewhere in it to ensure that that human touch, that hand on the shoulder, that proximity, in this crisis, is still possible in a very critical situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u150	I understand that very well. By the way, that space is always created in the palliative phase. I think it's good to add that. I'm gonna take the movie back to a few weeks ago, when we had to make this difficult decision. At that time it was mainly Verenso and the Brabant nursing homes who said to us: be careful, things are going much faster than we think with each other; the nursing homes are being hit hard. That was especially true in Brabant and Limburg. And that was the moment I made the agreement with the sector: we are doing it as implementation of the OMT advice to limit the visit. There has never been an OMT advice on this visitor scheme. The OMT never advised you to do that. At that time, in the head of many nursing home drivers, it was actually too harsh a measure. But now, looking at how the virus did indeed keep home, I'm glad I took it. My concern is that he's in the next one. If you take the step too quickly to relax a bit, then you take it for granted that this can also revive the infection, where we have just flattened the number of locations. And there's my big concern. My great concern is also about opening the door too far. For example, I would like to look at what happened in Belgium. There the government has said: one visitor per patient or client should be able to. I think the criticism is justified. People say, "Watch what you're doing." That also makes me so cautious in giving an answer to this very understandable question. So here's what I'm gonna do. As I said just now in the direction of Mrs Marijnissen, I will also involve the elderly's associations in the discussion I intend to have in the coming weeks. We are going to discuss all the proposals in that. So also this proposal. But we have to combine the human side and the medical side, so the protective side, well. We should not give people hope for a new arrangement too soon. That's what I'm talking about. In short: yes, we take every proposal into account in that balance between human on the one hand and medically necessary on the other, but we should not be too quick to hope for a new arrangement. We really need to work that out first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u151	Nobody's asking for carelessness. Nobody says open the door and walk in. So your concern is my concern and our concern. We must protect the most vulnerable in our community, and certainly also by protective means and by testing policies. However, this request does not call for carelessness, but rather for caution. It also calls for the quality of life to be taken into account in the distribution of these resources. It's not just the physical question, it's the question: does anyone survive? Of course, that's the first concern. But it's also the question: how does anyone survive? If someone who is loved and dear can get close, with all the protection we all want, then we add something like quality of life at a very critical stage in a very critical place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u152	I get that. I do think that is the way we should go about the search. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u153	I wholeheartedly support the need to explore the conditions in this direction, but my question was: when do we find, despite all the misery that is still taking place, that care in nursing homes and at home is going well enough? At the ic we had a clear benchmark the whole time. What's the capacity? It was magnified. Are we gonna stay under there? But this is actually where I'm looking. When do we think that the policy is working properly? How do we measure and judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u154	We have always mentioned three anchor points to go to the next phase. The first is: can the care handle it and can we deliver the capacity? The second is: do we protect our vulnerable people sufficiently? The third is: do we have sufficient visibility and insight into the spread of the virus? The second and third anchor points are relevant to the answer to your question. On the one hand, are we protecting our elderly enough? At the locations where the virus is housed, the flattening is very successful. The number of new locations that have been added has really been minimal in the last week. However, you can see very large differences in the contamination at those locations. In one location, after number one or two, it really manages to "contain," I say with a very ugly word. At the other location you can see it's really about the whole department. Sometimes this can be traced back to the extent to which the treatment directive has been complied with, but very often it is not easy to explain at all, in the vein of: it is because the treatment directive has been properly complied with or not. Of course, compliance in a good way is necessary. Can you say in advance: how far should it go? In any case, I would like to ensure that we do not increase the number of departments or locations experiencing contamination further. In any case, I would like to avoid that; that is a precondition. What I also want is that we are much faster able to ensure containment in departments, so we manage to control it if one or two infections are visible. That is why the test policy has been adapted: an extension for employees and an extension for patients. The new Verenso Directive is correct: all patients are tested, where it initially happened in one or two patients. In short: maximum containment actually of the further spread is the benchmark you have when answering the question. That's what you need to understand. You're gonna have to test enough for that. Next you have to see in the numbers of Verenso and in the numbers of the RIVM that the number of locations does not expand further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u155	I also mentioned the dramatic situation at the nursing homes in my introduction. We see that the number of deaths in two weeks increases from 0 to over 600. From Verenso it is indicated that prevention and containment is being used. We heard last week that one in four and a half of the care workers tested has corona. In my view, if they have no or insufficient protective equipment and are not tested, this means that it is a disaster that could have been prevented. Do I understand from this that we simply did not have protective equipment, that there were no tests and that this is the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u156	I just answered that question in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u157	I can see the Minister's telling me a lot, but he's not actually saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u158	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u159	I mean that sincerely. I notice that when questions are asked, I get a long story with all side paths, but it does not lead to the answer being given. In my introduction, I asked you to reflect on the fact that professionals at Verenso say: you have to focus on prevention. That seems to me to be protective equipment. A lot of health care workers say: we don't get it. The colleagues from the SP, GroenLinks and from other parties, Mr Wilders, say that it is not there. Then we see that there is also no testing. We see that the result is now what we saw this morning, namely that it is now moving from the ic to nursing homes. The number of nursing homes reported is not 900, as reported this morning, but dozens higher. How can the Minister indicate that he can't see what the impact would have been if it had been otherwise divided? I think he's staying away too much from that. How does Mr De Jonge feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u160	I'm sorry. I don't know where you were just now, but I really answered it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u161	In my view, this was the result of a question from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u162	From Mr Klaver, from Mr Wilders, from Mr Asscher. I'm fine with doing it again, but I've really answered it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u163	Oh, you have...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u164	Mr President, I am just sitting in the Chamber. I am listening and I find that there is simply no answer to questions being asked and that the Minister comes up with a story with which he says: "Ah, it is difficult to give a clear answer to them, because yes, at this stage: could it have been different? I can't say for sure." It's a serious situation. I really ask the Minister to answer instead of taking all kinds of side paths and using meaningless words that we simply can't do anything with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u165	Let me answer it briefly. I have indicated that we have acted at all stages on the basis of the advice we have been given. That advice was given in the context of that moment, the context of being able to see the situation as it happened, the context of being able to see the scarcity as it was in terms of protective equipment and testing. Both in terms of protective equipment and in terms of testing, demand is now better met. In the case of protective equipment, it is a question of adjusting the distribution policy. The tests are about broadening the test policy. Both have been adapted. The question that is difficult to answer is whether there is a relationship between the lack of protective equipment and the growth in the number of infections. That's the question that Wilders is asking. Is this shortage the cause of the increase in the number of people infected? You can imagine that's true. Of course you can imagine that's true. That's a question you should definitely involve in the evaluation. But a one-on-one bond is way too linear, I think. I think many more factors have played a role in bringing the virus inside the nursing home. You can see, for example, that the visitor scheme has not actually been the most effective way of stopping the growth of the number of new locations. You know that it's in a group of demented people 'cause it's not a hospital; it's a community, a group of demented people................................................................................................................................................. Keeping 1.5 meters away in a group of demented people is extremely complicated. Those are all factors that may have played a role, so a one-on-one relationship is impossible to explain...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u166	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u167	... but it will undoubtedly have played a role and I really think this is a question that should certainly be included in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u168	Yes. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u169	Finally, Mr President. That is essentially the essence of what Mr Van Dissel said this morning. If we keep that five feet away, in his view, there's no need for a mouth mask. If it's observed for a foot and a half, it won't be transferred. The problem is that this whole social distancing in the situation of a nursing home is virtually impossible, as the Minister pointed out. Is it not wise to bet on obtaining personal protective equipment, so that you can reduce that distance, but cannot transfer the virus? That's the essence, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u170	I believe that these are two different issues, but that is what has been done. It's hard to put a mask on all the residents of a nursing home all day long. I don't think that's much of a quality of life in a nursing home. But the need for more protective equipment in nursing homes has, of course, been the main reason for changing the distribution model. That's exactly what we've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u171	Last question, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u172	Finally, Mr President. It's not about giving all those people in that nursing home personal protective equipment. That would be extremely unwise. But if the conclusion of last week and the week before shows that people working in the care sector are getting it outside, is it likely that it is not the people who bring it into the nursing home, but the people who provide it? For weeks now they have been asked to equip these people with personal protective equipment, because then they will not deliver it. Then we're here, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u173	That's exactly what was done, isn't it? It has been checked for which care actions you need which type of personal protective equipment and then it was made the basis for the new key as it is. That is exactly the way personal protective equipment is distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u174	I would like to continue with Mr Van der Staaij's interruption, because I actually thought that was a very interesting debate between the Minister and Mr Van der Staaij. Pretty essential, too. We have a very clear grip on the ic capacity: the number of beds and the maximum you don't want to reach, in order to avoid the black scenario. It is indeed much more difficult for nursing homes, but also for disability care and for home care to say when we have achieved enough. I'd like to double-check if I understood the Minister correctly. He's actually saying, once we get to the point where we don't get new sites with infection sites anymore, and as soon as the number of infections in the places where there are infections is limited, we'll have better control of the situation in the nursing homes. But is it true that this is a prerequisite that everyone has the right protection equipment and that everyone with suspicion can be tested, and that this applies not only to nursing home care but also to disability care and home care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u175	Sure. The latter can be done. As far as the first is concerned, I do not want to make the relationship too linear. When will we be satisfied with nursing care? If it is also possible to increase the number of new sites and the number of infections at those locations, it is possible to reduce them at some point. That's what you want. That is also the objective of the policy, because the aim of our policy was twofold: to ensure that capacity is able to cope with it and to ensure that we can adequately protect our vulnerable people. That has been the goal of the strategy all along. As far as nursing care is concerned, we have not yet succeeded sufficiently. You can see that the measures taken are effective. We need to keep a very close eye on that. So do we, daily, just daily. As far as personal protective equipment is concerned, you are absolutely right. Of course, those personal protective equipment should be in all situations where you want to protect people, in nursing care, but certainly also in disability care. This is even true in long-term care. Everywhere covid patients are, or are potential, and where you do care actions where you need to be protected, that takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u176	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u177	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the block of personal protective equipment. I take Mr Klaver's question with me. Of course, it is important that all caregivers are given the right protection to do their job properly. It's necessary. Unfortunately, there is still a global shortage. It seemed as if I had to understand Mr Klaver's words as follows: is it really true that there is scarcity, or have there been many opportunities and opportunities to provide personal protective equipment and have we not taken sufficient advantage of these opportunities? I'm just gonna replay the movie of how we operated. The national consortium started around the end of March. The hospitals have already said: we have to work together as buyers, because we are not able to operate on our own on that global market, where we see that everyone is really rushing on all the stuff we need right now. From the end of March, this has become a national purchasing centre, where both the buyers of the healthcare institutions and the buyers of the suppliers have joined together. That's a very unusual collaboration. In a normal situation it is of course the case that healthcare institutions buy in themselves, but here both the buyers of the healthcare institutions and the buyers of the suppliers have operated together in one national purchasing centre. They tried to run down all the leads, all the tips and all the ideas that were there. Of course, we all get them in, in the mailbox, via LinkedIn, via social media, in all possible ways. There were hundreds of them a day sometimes. The vast majority of them differed a little from one period to another in the last few weeks. We'll just have to say that. The majority didn't really work out, knowing that you're not sure until you actually have a party in your hands. There was very, very much buy-in, but most of it didn't work out on the leads we got. Then it turned out to be fake. Then it turned out to be a hold in the air. Then it turned out there wasn't an offer behind what really helps. There's an incredible amount of effort in it. Still, every day, all leads are checked out as much as possible. One of them could have rolled off the wagon once. I'm sure you can. There were so many offers. Incredible hard work has been done to buy everything in. What's that gonna do? 'Cause that's what it's all about, of course. What's that gonna do? I put a lot of numbers in the letter yesterday, which I'm not going to repeat. After all, I would like to let you know on a weekly basis what is going to happen. You want to see reality. I also want to see the reality. We get that view of reality through all the numbers about what the LCH has purchased: millions. Yesterday's letter says all the numbers. But the fact that you bought it isn't a guarantee that it will. Is there a limit on what you bought? That was also in Mr Klaver's questions in the first term. No, there's no limit. Nor is it said "we need that about a week and then we're not going to buy more than that" or "are the nursing homes actually sufficiently taken into account in the assessment of what you need, that 4 million FFP2?'. There's no limit to what's been bought in. Everywhere there's a chance to buy something in, that's where it's bought in. That makes these numbers so absurdly large, up to FF 75 million, for example, all those kind of absurd numbers, but it doesn't count until they're manufactured, they're on a plane, they're leaving that plane, they're landing here and they're being tested here in the Netherlands and they're good enough to deliver. That's when you start getting something out of it. That's why the second number you need is the number that the LCH actually delivers. You're lucky to see those numbers increase. That was really very difficult at first. With lots of leads, lots of orders, it took a long time before it actually came off well. In the meantime we see that it really is getting better and better, so I have good hope that the scarcity will really decrease in the coming time. Are we there yet? No, we're really not there yet. Do we have enough visibility? No, we don't have enough visibility yet. The next sight you have to have is how it is then divided. First it enters the LCH, then it is divided between the ROAZ's, over the regions, and then it naturally has to land with the healthcare institutions themselves. We have asked at the ROAZ's to give an insight into what goes to the cure and what goes to the care. What can be done to actually land in care on the basis of this new distribution model? Because that's what it's all about in the end. You saw the numbers this morning. That's better. Last week, in week 15, I have to say, for example, it was fifty-fifty for the surgical mouth masks. At week 16 it was 65% at 35%, so 65% care. When it comes to FFP1, it was at week 15 90% for cure and 10% for care and at week 16 it was 100% for care. So how's the new distribution model coming along? Yeah, we actually managed to land that. Are we satisfied yet? No. 'Cause you're still getting signals from employees who are short. I get them, too, and the inspection gets them, too. A next dashboard to send is your mailbox, but especially the incoming calls at the inspection. The National Health Information Point, where professionals express their concerns when they feel that they need to provide care and feel insufficiently protected, is also for us a finger on the wrist to see if things are going well enough. This is our daily job: to ensure that people have sufficient protective equipment. We're just not there yet. Are you feeling better? Yeah, I'm better. Are we there yet? Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u178	Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Krol and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u179	Caregivers are currently faced with impossible choices. They go to work and then they may become infected themselves if they lack protective equipment or are at risk of infecting the vulnerable people they want to care for. This morning, during the technical briefing, we heard the health inspection judge that this leads to irresponsible risks that are currently being taken into care, because of the lack of protective materials. The Minister finds me here week in, week out to the interrupting microphone to ask: what is the situation? My question today is actually quite simple: when can all healthcare providers count on adequate protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u180	That question is very simple, but the answer is very difficult. Because if I could have mentioned a date, of course, I would have done it a long time ago. But that date can't be mentioned. What I can do is to tell you honestly what I'm doing to ensure adequate protective equipment, what I'm doing in the distribution and what I'm doing to keep an eye on how things are going. Perhaps, Mrs Marijnissen, we should agree that perhaps I should also tell Mr Klaver that we are getting the signals you are getting, because we are also getting them, so that we can check them out. Indeed, there are risks that can be unacceptable. Unprotected doing your job is indeed unacceptable. That is also why we are really taking everything out of the closet to buy enough, produce enough, work on reuse and distribute them as well as possible. So I would like to invite you to give us your signals. Then the inspection will begin with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u181	I'd love to do that. But the problem is, of course, that those signals... There's so many of them. That was also the problem last week, when healthcare professionals were called in: report it to the health inspection if you have problems, if you have too few protective materials. That inspection concludes today: yes, it is a major problem and irresponsible risks are being taken at the moment. There are so many signals that it is almost impossible to do that anymore. So, of course, we want to pass on all these signals. And I'm actually trying to make it clear here every week that that's necessary. But I think the minister himself will get them. We heard that at the press conference yesterday. And we have also heard it from, for example, the chairman of a large home care organisation, Neighborhood care Netherlands. He says: I can be creative, call, order myself, I can arrange more than is being said at the moment. I find it too easy, also because, for example, we have been asking about production in our own country for weeks. What's taking you so long to start that up? How can we hear from a healthcare organisation: we can do it if we call and order? We are currently asking for the utmost of our caregivers and we are right to clap our hands blue. The least we can do is finally make sure those people can do their jobs safely?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u182	Absolutely. That is why we are committed in every possible way to achieving this. And I do want those individual signals. Because where it does not succeed, there is also a real role for the inspection to ensure safe care. So it's more than just keeping the finger on the wrist. For example, in an individual situation where you don't get out with your employer, it's really up to the inspection to see what's going wrong. And is there still safe care? So there is also just a formal inspection task here. I therefore invite Mrs Marijnissen again. It is precisely with individual signals that we are able to get to work, and I also want the inspection to be carried out. Then the production. There's more to it than that. We currently have a consortium of three companies with which contracts are concluded. These companies can jointly handle a production of approximately FF 1.2 million masks. Those are the most difficult masks to obtain at the moment. That would be about a quarter of the production. From May onwards, these companies will be able to provide 1.2 million masks, and then they will probably be able to increase production a little further, to 1.5 million. That's a lot, and that's all about the FFP2 masks. Together with the Minister of EZK, we support several new initiatives to achieve a national production of protective equipment. These include surgical masks, FFP2 masks, but also the start-up of the production of insulation coats and other materials, such as face masks and splash glasses. And perhaps I should put this in the light of what you said about it, and also of what Mr Heerma said about it. If there has been one moment in recent years when you have felt dependent on other countries as a country, then it is now. Whether it's about personal protective equipment, about vaccine development or about medicines: on all the topics and themes you need from my portfolio, you depend on abroad. When you see that, you might ask yourself: is that really responsible towards the future? We certainly have to bear that in mind. Not that you could solve everything immediately, because you are sometimes also dependent on, for example, raw materials that are simply not available in the Netherlands. But that scarcity, and being so dependent on abroad, is not something you should want to go to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u183	I have, of course, already argued in favour of rebuilding this important industry in my own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u184	Yeah, and that's what we're doing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u185	But I find the Minister's answer on these protective equipment really too easy. There's a lot of signals. We can pass it on, and we do it all the time. I try to do that here in this debate every week. But let me give you a concrete example without mentioning a name. Yesterday I received a newsletter from a large Dutch home care organisation. They provide household care there. It is said that no employee is given personal protective equipment, because that is not necessary. It is said that you simply have to keep a distance of 1.5 metres, and that is completely in line with the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u186	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u187	Minister, that's insane, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u188	Yeah, that's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u189	You can't give care, you can't give household care, you can't come to someone's house, and then you can be shipped off with: yes, according to the guidelines, you only keep a foot and a half away and then you'll be okay? Those people are scared! They come across vulnerable people, and they do so with love. But they're just being shipped off with: no, protection materials are not necessary. Isn't that where you're supposed to perform?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u190	Protection measures are needed, however, in those situations where they are needed. The RIVM has described that very precisely. These directives must be complied with by health care institutions. That's safe care. The inspection shall ensure that this is done. So if you have these kind of signals, pass them on, names and numbers, we'll go after them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u191	I agree with what Mr Marijnissen says, because those are exactly the e-mails that come to us. That group of people in home care saying: "We are not mentioned at all, we are not looked at at at all. We are indeed given the advice that it is not necessary at all, while we are also among the vulnerable. Please, don't forget us." We can all send messages to you. Take it from me, they're not a few, they're a lot. They're begging you, remember us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u192	Sure. Also in your direction then please the invitation to get through with the signals. The inspection will get them. If we get them, the inspection will get on with it. If the inspection gets them herself, she'll start working on it herself. This is about safe care. And yes, the concern about whether we have sufficient personal protective equipment is great, and it indeed leads to fear. That is also why we are doing everything possible for more stuff and we have made it very clear in what situation you need any type of protective equipment. That's just a RIVM directive. That is the directive that you can see as safe care. We must all abide by this directive. That's why I'm saying, signs with names and numbers, which we can work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u193	Can't we just make it a little easier? Couldn't there be one specific e-mail address that anyone can send those complaints to? There's so many of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u194	That's the National Health Service at the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u195	But apparently they're not coming through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u196	I'm gonna send a tweet with the address on it later. Then we'll sort it out right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u198	I'm just seeing a repetition of previous debates. "If there are any signals, pass them on, we'll get to it." That wasn't really my point. The question I asked was about the scarcity of resources and whether we are doing everything we can. We'll do everything we can, but can we get everything in? If I look now at the countries around us, I see that they are able to obtain larger stocks of these protective equipment than the Netherlands. There may be many reasons for this, but I can see that there are larger volumes there, that there is more room to divide it between those different sectors of care. Even to give it to individuals, to citizens. I get messages from people who want to start production in the Netherlands or say they can import funds from China. I don't know if those are good leads, but if they get back as a message from the Ministry "we have enough, we're not going to continue this offer, thank you" I think something's going wrong. Again, I can't tell if this is right. That's why we're sending everything over. But if the Ministry states "we have enough leads now, we can continue with this, we will not go into your offer now," I find that a wrong signal. Because we don't have enough stuff yet, because we know that most leads are dead, if people offer anything, you'll have to go through everything to see if they can. That's what my question was about. So that whole story about dividing resources into scarcity, yeah, I get that. We need to get more stuff in here. I think there's still room out there to do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u199	Let us test that with this concrete example, because I agree with you: the answer cannot be that we have enough stuff. I don't know exactly what was offered, but no, we don't have enough yet. We've ordered a lot. That's true, but it doesn't work until it actually comes in. So we don't have enough for a while. What we're doing is checking out all those thousands of leads we've gotten in the past period. I'm sure one of them slipped in. There's no other way. We've had a nationwide purchasing center for a few weeks. We've never had that before. There more than 80 people from different organisations, buyers of hospitals, suppliers, work together. They must in no time form a cooperative company in which they grab everything, everything, everything that can be grabbed. Yeah, there's chips there, of course. There's no other way. At least they're getting chopped up. That's a good sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u200	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u201	Let's take the test. Come on through with this lead. Then we'll see if it's missed. Mr Wilders has done this before. That's what we've been working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u202	Also on protective equipment. Look, Mr. Secretary, you rule. That's what you wanted, and you're doing it now. There have been two motions from me in the last month, I think Chamberwide. Those motions said: there must be sufficient means of protection. Last week I asked you the same question that Mrs Marijnissen is right to ask: at least indicate a date on which it can be done. You reply consistently with a second question: then give those signals and send them to me. That is undoubtedly well-meant, but that is not the answer. You rule. You are the minister responsible for ensuring that people in care have adequate protective equipment. You didn't take care of that. You're not getting enough of them right now. You even had planes loaded to China sent in February. So the question is ultimately very justified. As a minister, you can set a date for all those people who work in care, who are following this debate or who are watching it on television tonight. We can't do that from the Chamber. They want to hear from you: in two weeks, in three days or three weeks, it doesn't matter when I'm going to make sure there are no more deficits. And don't come back with: we have a different model and things are getting better; come up with your questions and suggestions. No, you rule. You have to tell me when it's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u203	You asked that question earlier, and I also said: you cannot say that. You can't say a date on which it's settled. That is a completely wrong assessment of the complex practice of purchasing material. In all the countries of the world, there is scarcity. In all the countries of the world, there is scarcity. There is currently no country without a lack of personal protective equipment. The question of "just give me a date" completely ignores that reality. I said that last week, and I will say that again next week. If you ask "name a date when you will do everything possible to get more stuff in" then that has been from day one. From day one, we've done everything we can to get more stuff in. Have any mistakes been made? No doubt. That is what we are all going to see in the evaluation. Of course a lot of chips fell, because they were chopped. From day one there has been a lot of chopping to ensure that enough stuff came in here, but mentioning a date really does not do justice to the complexity of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u204	I really do not want to detract from the intentions of getting more personal protective equipment as soon as possible. However, I believe that we have heard here since 5 March when Minister Bruins said that we would have more personal protective equipment within a few weeks. It is depressing to hear the same answer every week, namely that it is settled within a few weeks. I want to pick out one thing. There was very positive news last week. A number of Dutch companies, such as a bed manufacturer............................................................................................................................. They will be available for the Dutch market at the end of April or early May. It's super good news that Dutch companies are now jumping into that hole, because we can't just make up for it with international purchasing. But that company also said that we've been waiting for weeks to get the approval of the U.S. Department to start that production at all. My question to the Minister is: does he have an idea of why it took so long before these Dutch companies got a go and can that process be accelerated, so that other Dutch companies who may want to start producing will not have to wait for that approval for weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u205	That's a long story...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u206	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u207	... but to keep that long story very short: there has been no reason for delay. But of course we have been asked: what are you going to deliver later and can you also show if that meets the quality we need? Of course, that question has been asked, but it has not had a delaying effect on the date when it could be delivered from production.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u208	I will leave that answer to me, because the producers themselves indicate that they could have started production sooner if an agreement had been reached more quickly from VWS. We do not need to find that out on the spot, but I would ask the Minister to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u209	I will take this up in next week's letter. The story really is a bit different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u210	Okay. It's actually the same question that was just asked, but that's okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u211	Mr. Chairman. I think I've had most of the questions about personal protective equipment. I'm gonna go through the pile real quick. Yeah, that's right. Then I'll continue with the tests and the apps. I'll put it together in one piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u212	This way you have less cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u213	Yes, but they have everything to do with each other, Mr. Chairman. I'm skipping all the introductory lyrics, that's the way it is. The test capacity has been expanded in a number of steps. If you turn the film back to a few weeks ago, you'll see that the test capacity was insufficient to test enough. This applies, for example, to nursing homes. The test capacity was simply insufficient. To increase that test capacity, we have taken a number of steps. First, we had to provide enough laboratory space. Where normally two labs did this type of tests with a number of, I believe 13, scaling labs added, we've increased the number of laboratories to over 40. RIVM had to be accredited to be able to reliably take this test. The number of laboratories has increased considerably. The total test capacity is 17,500 to 29,000 tests per day with normal working hours. The second thing that had to be done was to ensure sufficient reduction capacity, especially at the GGD, i.e. public health. This is the case from April 6th onwards. That is why we have said that, from 6 April onwards, both staff in care with complaints, including outside hospitals, and patients in vulnerable target groups with complaints can be more tested. This led to an amendment of the directive, which we discussed last week. Where's the bottleneck in the tests? In particular, it concerns the supply of laboratories. We have also talked about this before. Various devices are used in the laboratories. Different suppliers are needed for each device to be able to run such a device. All these different substances, whether it's the lysis buffer or any other type of liquid for the reagents, can cause a deficiency at any time. But that single fact should never hinder healthcare workers from just getting that test done. I would like to emphasise once again: yes, of course there is a stock issue, on about all the themes that are playing around this corona crisis, but that is not the problem of care workers. That's our problem, you might say. Caregivers need to get the clear message: you can get tested if you have complaints. This is also the case with the Test Directive. We need to get rid, I think, of the experience of obstruction in test capacity. We just need to test more. The stock problems are there, but we have to solve them. We do everything about that, also along the line of purchasing, of central stock management, so you know what to buy, along the line of production start up...................................................................................................................................................... That's the way we're gonna do it. I must never provoke interruptions, of course; I saw one coming. I'm going to the apps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u214	If there's any questions about testing? That's the case. First Mr Asscher, then Mr Heerma, then Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Van der Staaij and then Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u215	The OMT writes in a harsh conclusion that the outbreak in the nursing homes has to do with restrictive testing policies. We read in last night's letter that more tests have been sent since the end of March and we heard Feike Sijbesma say that there was little material because of the restrictive testing policy. What's the deal now? Is it true that it hasn't been sent on until the end of March? The letter also says that we can't test who we want to test until mid-May. Then who isn't being tested at the moment? Three: what is the responsibility of this minister, who was responsible for the nursing homes at least from day one of the crisis, for that restrictive test policy? I see that the scarcity is always used as an argument for the policy and then that, because the policy is restrictive, too few resources are being bought in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u216	Let's go back to the movie a few weeks ago. We have set up a national testing structure to centralise both laboratories and stock management. We saw what always happens: in a decentralised way it does not get enough off the ground. It is true: there was indeed scarcity, that is true. There was, I think, also a consideration with a number of experts. They said it must make sense to start testing. That makes sense, I guess. You have to have complaints, or there will be too many false negative results. But, apart from the substantive consideration of what makes sense or not, the scarcity was indeed reason to test less widely than you really would like and we are doing at the moment. To do so, we had to step by step ensure that this capacity was increased. What Mr Sijbesma said is that if suppliers have the idea that there is a restrictive testing policy, they may indeed be reluctant to supply large stocks, because after the crisis they do not want to be accused of helping countries that are hoarding. So that's something that you're going to get away with. We have increased this test capacity step by step, by first switching on more laboratories, then increasing the capacity to buy and then saying: what are we going to do in the centralisation of stock management to ensure that all those devices in those laboratories can also work? I just said "after," but that was actually all done at the same time. Is there a bottleneck? Yeah, there is. It's in the supply chain. Do you manage to properly supply all these devices in time? Of course, that's what you have to be honest about, but does that have to be an obstacle right now to testing those people you actually want to test? No. We say to all employees in the care: if you have any complaints, you report to a doctor, your company doctor, your GP or any doctor, and make sure you are tested, because that test capacity is there. It is good to repeat that again today. We also see that the number of tests has increased further in the last week, actually since 6 April, since that announcement was made. For example, we will have to build gradually to further increase the test capacity and we will have to solve all the supply problems. Is the supply currently obstructing the number of tests you can take? No, it's not obstructive right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u217	This is quite shocking, quite frankly. The Minister acknowledges here: we had a restrictive policy because of the scarcity and because of that restrictive policy we got less stuff, which allowed us to carry out fewer tests. Meanwhile, the infections continued and you see a massive outbreak in the nursing homes. That's what just got recognized. I think that's pretty dramatic, because it's not the first time we've talked about testing. We've been talking about that for weeks. Now there's a bottleneck that doesn't lead to less testing. That's what the minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u219	Then who is not being tested which you would like to test, but which can only be tested by mid-May?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u220	To the latter, the answer is simply: no one. At present, everyone can be tested in accordance with the directive. It has been possible to increase the test capacity sufficiently. The question is how is it going with the full test capacity? Suppose the labs would all be working overtime and going to 29,000 tests a day, can you keep doing that for weeks based on the current stock? Well, I don't know. Well, I guess that's gonna be exciting. It will indeed be exciting, but then I will be the first to report it to you. In this crisis, we made the choice that was obvious at the time, was necessary and advised by experts. That's how we did it. We've told you every day everything we've been doing, because that's what you're supposed to do in a crisis. Be honest about what succeeds and what fails. Be honest about what's gonna happen and what you're doing. Tell me the truth if you don't know or if you're not capable of anything. It was said at the time about this scarcity in the direction of the Chamber: there is simply too much scarcity to be able to extend testing policy further. That was indeed the situation at the time. Step by step, I have been working to expand that test capacity further. This provided scope for broadening the directives, for example the Verenso directive in nursing homes. The directive for employees has been extended on the basis of the already extended test capacity. These people can all be tested. Let's talk about the conclusion in that OMT opinion. I think there's a lot more to be said about that. Much more has also been said about it this morning during the technical briefing. That's how linear you can't draw that conclusion, I think. Take the patient test policy for a moment. According to the Verenso treatment directive, if number one and number two of a department turn out to be positive, you treat the whole department as if they were tested positive for corona. So from that moment on, the cohort nurse goes in. Has that given rise to further contagion? I think that is very important if we have simply complied with the treatment directive. Of course, there is something different about employees. Fortunately, we can now test all employees in healthcare. My advice is do so. Make sure you're tested as soon as you have any complaints. We are going to do everything we can to ensure that we supply these labs sufficiently, so that we can also continue to cope with the increased production capacity. In any case, this should not be the problem of the employees in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u221	Last question. We are now entering a semantic maze of capacity, capacity, stockpiling and policy. My question was simple: who are we not testing which we would like to test, but which we can only do from mid-May? Apparently, we're working on a bigger test capacity based on policy. So who we're not testing now, and why can't we do it faster? For example, the discussion about Roche and the making of the substances you need to test has been going on for weeks. That prescription would have been handed over. So there's no reason to delay anymore. Who aren't we testing that we'd like to test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u222	Anyone you'd like to test according to the directive, you're testing right now. Everyone. For a next phase, also for the exit strategy, you want to have a further extended test policy, so you can test other groups again. But that is a question that you then ask the OMT: who could be the follow-up group? Could that possibly be the carers? I thought it was Mr Van der Staaij who suggested that carers should not be tested more extensively. Yeah, I'd love to, but for the time being, we really need to give priority to people who work in healthcare. Carers could be a next group. It could also be another crucial profession of which you say: you should add it as the next group. For example, the group of agents who have come into contact with someone infected or possibly infected has recently been added. We managed to add that group. But you have to look at how you use the capacity that I've created in the meantime to the best of your ability as part of the strategy you're pursuing to get that virus under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u223	The Minister states that there should be no bottleneck for care personnel to be tested. He indicates that these problems have been solved by the deployment of the last few weeks. However, I believe that we are still getting signals yesterday via Nieuwsuur (Nieuwsuur) that there are institutions that say: we are testing ourselves, because it goes through the regional GGD too slowly and too bureaucratic and those tests do not come in time. How does the Minister reconcile this kind of signal with what he just said in reply to Mr Asscher's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u224	You can see that a number of institutions have set up test options themselves, just on location, because they felt that it took too long via the GGD. Now that test capacity has been set up since April 6th. By the way, the GGDs have done a tremendous amount of work to stomp it out of the ground in no time. It must be true that this did not go as smoothly in the logistics at first. That may indeed be a reason for an employer to say: yes, I will do it myself and make an appointment myself with a lab or a hospital. I don't necessarily mind if people can be tested. I do mind if people would still feel compelled to do so in a while, because of the criticism of the way in which they work with the GGD. Well, then I'm sorry. So I'm just gonna keep an eye on that. I'm open to all that kind of signals. If we get those signals, we'll discuss them with the GGD in that region because I think the GGD capacity should basically be enough to test those employees in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u225	There would be another reason if it was problematic. That is when the other tests are less reliable. That can also happen in theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u226	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u227	The minister says it shouldn't happen anymore. Would he also comment on these signals in next week's letter and indicate what is being done to ensure that people do not have to deviate to third parties because it is simply running fast and smoothly through the GGD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u228	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u229	Mrs Marijnissen, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u230	I can tell I'm just not okay with what the minister says. He actually says the same thing about the tests as about personal protective equipment: there is scarcity and we need to divide up the scarcity. But he is hiding behind the scarcity and does not address the questions and the possible solutions to overcome that scarcity. Last week, when it comes to testing, the Minister said that all healthcare providers can be tested. Then I go to Brabant, a fireplace in the corona outbreak, call around and I hear from one of the largest Brabant care organizations that there are 3 GGDs in Brabant, which can take 100 tests a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u231	Not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u232	Yeah, that's the reality. All those caregivers who want to be tested, call us and tell us they can't do it. Those care organizations tell me: the 3 GGDs each do 100 tests a day; that's 300 tests a day. There are thousands, tens of thousands of healthcare workers who need to be tested right now. I do not understand why the Minister at the press conference says that all healthcare professionals can be tested, while we hear from laboratories at the same time, like yesterday in Nieuwsuur: the capacity of 450 is currently being used, but we can easily reach 1,000 per day. Why isn't it happening? Why aren't these labs being called in? Why is that capacity not used? And why do you say every time that all caregivers can be tested? Mr Jetten rightly said that it is very frustrating that we are standing here every week, and there is not really an answer. But for those caregivers, it's far worse than frustrating. For those caregivers, it's almost inhuman what choices they have to make. Those are choices between life and death!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u233	That is also why we are doing everything we can to increase the test capacity. I just explained that. I'm not gonna repeat that. We're doing everything we can to expand that test capacity. I got that signal about the 100, too. That is also the reason to immediately switch with the GGD and say: stop starting with potential scarcity in supply. There is not, at least that is not their problem, but our problem. That was also the answer to Mr Asscher. What we do is switch on maximum test capacity in the laboratories and then organise maximum purchase capacity at the GGD. That's what we do, and the message to healthcare professionals is, go test if you have any complaints. The G.D.D.s need to fix that. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u234	No, Mrs. Marijnissen...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u235	The minister's just saying things that aren't true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u236	Then you can return to that in your second term. The deal you made with each other is that there are five questions. I'll stick to that. I didn't make that up. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u237	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u238	No, I have a whole list: Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Baudet and Mr Krol. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u239	I asked another question about the disabled sector. I also hear signals that it is not carried out in a uniform way everywhere, that there are considerable differences. Can this be done so that there is more clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u240	Yes, the directive, which can be found on the RIVM site, also applies to the disabled sector. Then the decrease must take place. You can see in practice that there may be several doctors involved. That could be the company doctor or another doctor. If these differences are problematic, we have to want to take them away. If they're just helping to get more test capacity, of course that's not a problem. The directive also applies to disability care. I'm trying to do everything I can to make sure that clarity lands on the work floor as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u241	I would like to ask a question about another type of testing, namely those serological tests. We all wish that every day could be tested if we've had it. I can't. I understand that, too. But you can see that there will also be an offer if there is such a need. Now you see places where everyone can go. If you pay €70, blood will be punctured and tested. I don't think we should do that or that's very reliable. The question is whether we should not do that, so that people who want to lose money can do that. Or could it be a risk that people wrongly think they've already had it? If that leads to problems, you should do something about it. Or do we confine ourselves to warning about the limited reliability?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u242	That last one. There is not much to do about it. You can invest in this business as a company. We say: be careful with the reliability. We are heading all the way to the RIVM. We explicitly cooperate with the GGD and with all the research institutes of the Netherlands. There are currently four studies that are based on serology, but that is all at population level and then a false positive or false negative result is not such a point. But indeed, in a serological test whether you've had it, a false positive result is a point, because then you feel protected or immune. There is also a lot of discussion among scientists about how much exposure to a virus ultimately leads to immunity. That discussion is far from over. We are not yet at the stage of this type of individual application of serological tests. It's true what you say. I see companies like that, too. I see all kinds of promises, too. I also see countries that have been kicked into all that kind of promise. We're not gonna do that. We have a strict line. It has to be reliable, or it won't do you any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u243	So you can't forbid it or fight it. Anyone can do that. If it were possible and reliable, it would be regulated by a "seal of approval" policy, should there be a test that meets all requirements. So people can roughly think: as long as the government doesn't say: you can go there for a reliable test, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u244	I think that's a very good summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u245	...the rest is not reliable enough to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u246	That's right. I think that's a very good summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u247	Mr Baudet and then Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u248	Thank you for the opportunity to make another interruption. I did not hear an answer to my question about the representative sample. So not based on contagion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u249	No. I'd just gotten to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u250	Oh. That's gonna come now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u251	Yes. Great minds think alike.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u252	Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u253	What is the status of the representative sample? That's Mr Baudet's question, isn't it? Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u254	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u255	A number of samples are currently being carried out on the basis of serology, i.e. on the basis of blood tests. Sanquin, together with RIVM, investigates how donors build up immunity by repeatedly examining the build-up of immunity in all blood donors for one week. On average, these are 7,000 to 10,000 donors per week. The first results were shared with you by Professor Van Dissel this morning. The second is the Pieter study of RIVM to find out which part of the participants has built up immunity. That concerns 6,000 people. The first results will be published in mid-May. The third study is from Erasmus MC. This investigates the immunity of Rotterdammers in whom blood is taken because of other conditions. That result will appear within a few weeks. And then the LUMC is still working on a similar study as in Rotterdam. The first results will also be published in two weeks' time. So there are four studies that deal with serology. A random approach has been chosen for all of them. So the sum of the numbers certainly makes it a large sample. The biggest one is from Sanquin, under the blood donors. On that basis, there is something to be said, but that is still very early on about the extent to which immunity has been built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u256	Yes, but none of these four studies are therefore based on a representative cross-section of the population. For all four, a group is taken that is rather specific or relatively specific. It's a certain group of people who do indeed give blood and are blood donors, but you can't look at the level of infection in the entire population based on that. The same applies to the Erasmus MC research, because that takes people who fall into a risk group. What you want is the large X-factor that we don't know.... is a representative sample in which a cross-section is made of the entire population.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u257	You always have to do research with the aim in mind, and certainly at this stage you have to do so. I believe that the aim of this type of investigation is to find out to what extent people who have been infected are actually building up immunity. That is the aim that we are currently considering with this type of research. For that type of research, I think, the research that is being done and is being deported is actually very good. If you look at the percentage of the total population that has now been infected, you will see that it is low. Whatever research you do, you never get very large numbers. That is not possible at this stage of epidemiology either. It is, of course, fine to continue to ask the researchers this question: is there a need for additional research at the moment? But a lot of research is being done. Is it sufficiently representative? Yes, for the purpose with which that investigation is conducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u258	I don't understand anymore. If you want to know how many people have actually built up immunity after they've recovered from corona, then of course you only have to take the people who have had it. Then you don't have to take a sample of blood donors and so on. However, if you want to know what the level of infection among the population has been, so that you can say something meaningful about how dangerous the coronavirus actually is, because we still don't know that; that's the big X factor in all the considerations about it; we just don't know that then you have to take a cross section of the entire population. So the sample Sanquin does, under blood donors, is useless anyway. So that doesn't give you any useful information. If you want to know if people are building immunity, then you either have to heal COVID-19 patients take that's okay or you have to take a cross section of the population, total at random, as is sometimes the case with cervical cancer, breast cancer or other things. What is also possible is that you look inside nursing homes, at specifically vulnerable groups. It's possible. But then what's the point of the blood donor sample?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u259	With each research you do a sample that is related to the purpose for which you do the research. In this case, it is an investigation into the extent to which immunity has been built up and antibodies are found in the blood of people who have been infected. That is an extremely sensible investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u260	Those aren't Sanquin blood donors, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u261	Sure. That's right, that's what's done to Sanquin blood donors. On this basis, you can make a statement about the extent to which Dutch society has experienced the contamination. But I'm just going to redirect this question to the RIVM, because two politicians who are the researcher, of course, that's never going well! And I am going to put that question as follows: is for a good ruling at any time about the extent to which people have been infected in Dutch society, at this time doing the right research? That's how I'm going to formulate the question. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u262	That is exactly what I tabled the motion for a resolution on two weeks ago. And then the Minister said: it's already happening; the motion is superfluous. This is a bit of a recurring theme. Every two or three weeks after we've proposed something, they say, oh, you know what we're gonna do... And the NOS and the NPO say: wow, the government has a new idea! But, of course, it's very weird. Two weeks ago, you said this is happening. This is what we're gonna do now. And now you're saying, I don't really know, I'm gonna ask RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u263	No. I have just mentioned all the investigations that are currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u264	But that's not a representative sample.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u265	Mr Baudet felt that a sample was not sufficiently representative. Well, I think it would be very good to continue with that question in the direction of the researchers, otherwise two politicians will be playing the researcher. I don't think that's a good idea at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u266	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u267	The Minister himself just said that this is not a sample of immunity, with which you can say something about the general level of infection in the Netherlands. That's what you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u268	I didn't say that myself. Maybe it's just good to take a look back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u269	And that was exactly what was in my motion. But that's not going to be measured now, is it? Isn't it just a question of how much immunity you've built up when you've had it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u270	The Minister has just said that he will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u271	I'll direct the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u272	First of all, the people in the care are happy that you are about to send out a Twitter message. That's what they're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u273	They've already let you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u274	Fantastic! I have another question. There are a lot of people in care who have mild complaints. They want to be tested, because they want to prevent them, when they have mild symptoms but can be contagious, from patient to patient, from older to older in home care, from transmitting the virus. But they are constantly told: no, you will only be tested with high fever and tightness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u275	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u276	Don't we run the risk of spreading the virus to a vulnerable group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u277	This was about a group of caregivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u278	This was about the fact that people in health care who want to be tested are now told: you can only be tested if you have a high fever and are constipated. They are often people with mild complaints, who are concerned for the people they visit. They say: I want certainty, not only for myself but also for the people I visit. Can you once again insist that these people can also be tested?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u279	People who work in care, who work with vulnerable patients, can be tested if they have complaints. And that's not just with high fever. No, just complaints that are corona-related. So colds, troubles, coughs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u280	The practice is a different one. So I hope you can tell the people who are going over it, the bosses of all those people who are now being denied the test: remember, those people should also be given the opportunity to be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u281	That's right. Sure. It is therefore a question of adopting directives and communicating them clearly. And we will. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the questions about the apps. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I also think that we will be discussing this in detail, even next week. We go through a short route, but the speed must not go at the expense of care. So we try to go as carefully as possible. Last week, the OMT advised that the source and contact research should be properly designed as one of the anchor points in that next phase in order to get a clear view of the spread. The source and contact research in which so many people are infected must of course be supported digitally in order to do so in a good and effective way. That's the reason for the apps. So I very much agree with anyone who says that these apps are not an end in themselves. The purpose of these apps is to restore the source and contact research of the GGD. I also very much agree with everyone who says: beware of this speed, because it must not be at the expense of care. A number of members of your Chamber have formulated a number of criteria. Mr Segers did. Mr Jetten did the same in my memory. Mrs. Ouwehand did that. Let me look at the criteria mentioned by Mr Segers for a moment, because I think we are simply in agreement. What is a number of harsh preconditions, which are also simply included in the demand as we did last Saturday? Tuesday it had to be handed in. That gave us a huge pile of ideas. They are all being tested for harsh conditions at the moment. That app should not use centralized personal data. The source code must be public. The design must also be clear and transparent for everyone. Reindication...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u282	Something fell with a lot of noise. Well, that worked. You stopped talking right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u283	Yeah, you scared the shit out of me. Reidentification of app users should be impossible. That too is an important demand. Furthermore, I mention: no central storage of personal data and secure communication of data. In order to formulate these requirements, I would like to mention just a few of them, we have used the input of many experts from the world of epidemiology, the fight against infectious diseases. Of course, because then it's about the purpose and application of that app. But also from the world of information security and the security angle. This means that about all abbreviations within the government are involved and it means that there are also a lot of outside experts involved. Now they're going to test that huge bucket of ideas that's come in. They select it until there are about five apps left. Then the initiators of these solutions are asked to be publicly questioned. First of all by the experts, in a number of rings. So it is the experts from within the government, but also from outside the government, including that group of professors who have come forward. But also the coalition Safe against Corona, for example, is involved. They're gonna run some tests for the next weekend. It's supposed to be a public event, so everyone can watch with it. If we want this to be a success, and I would like to ensure that this is a success, we can only do so if society has confidence in it. Society only has confidence when it is sure that their data is safe and that their privacy is guaranteed and that everything possible has been done to ensure that it is. That's how we're gonna do it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u284	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u285	I wanted to say something very genius, Mr. Chairman, but I'll keep that to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u286	If that app turns out to be of added value, it is indeed about trust. Then it's about the fact that Dutch people really trust that it's a safe and reliable app. I think that the conditions that the Minister now mentions are very important conditions to ensure that Dutch people are willing to use that app in a massive way. So indeed: do not centrally store data and have the apps that will reach the next round tested by experts and other people. Those are very sensible steps. However, in the tender that was open last weekend, it was not included as a condition that it is an open source app. I heard the Minister say something else about that earlier, but I would like to double-check it, because trust must also be maintained once that app is in operation. If it is an open source app, experts can check how the app was built and whether it can still be trusted during the operation of the app. Can the Minister confirm that open source will also be part of the final choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u287	The design must be public and the source code must be public. So public access is a requirement. Do not open source. This has to do with the difference between public access and open source. It must be public so that it can be tested. Everyone should be able to see that code and everyone should be able to watch the software. Open source would mean that others could also reuse it in their own products. Then you ask a lot of initiators, because that means that their intellectual property should actually be handed over to another, in advance. So we did not want to make that demand, but the openness that is needed in order to have confidence in it, that requirement is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u288	This openness is not only at the front, when the app is chosen, but it is a requirement that will go through as long as we use that app, so that the app maker, when he makes changes to his app, has to publish it every time, so that everyone can check if it is still a safe and reliable application.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u289	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u290	And on Wednesday, the room is having a round table conversation, I understand, about the app, this app. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u291	It was also a proposal from the Party for Animals to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u292	I think it's from the whole room, but go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u293	And the whole room thinks it's a good idea, yeah. Let's do that. Mr. Chairman. I filed a motion last week because, to put it mildly, the government doesn't have such a good track record when it comes to privacy. So I asked for experts to be involved. Then the Minister said, "I don't like this motion, hold it for a while." Then I asked if the Minister would inform us which experts he would involve. I don't have a visual yet. We have seen that 100 scientists have sent a letter to the Chamber and the Cabinet. They have noticed some very sensible things and I wonder if those experts are involved or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u294	Yes. We listed in the letter last night who was involved. Or "all," at least we've indicated that this coalition is safely involved against Corona. I think, if I recall last week's motion, the names you mentioned are involved in that coalition Safe against Corona. From the experts, the professors who were in the newspaper, we have asked a number to be involved in the group of experts who will then help us again. Not only when it comes to considering the requirements, because those requirements were of course already made last Saturday, but also when it comes to assessing them. So the answer to the question is simply yes. These experts are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u295	Fine. We'll hear those experts in the hearing next week. Then I would like to ask a question about the argument that we heard from the OMT about testing and masks: there is also a risk of false safety. It's not just "well, it doesn't benefit, it doesn't harm." The same arguments also apply to the app. In an opinion piece in today's Volkskrant, for example, the former director of the Health Council writes: there are also disadvantages if that app just doesn't work so well, apart from all those privacy issues. How does the Cabinet react to that? Is that a tough condition? I am concerned that in terms of testing and all those mouth caps, the argument is mentioned that having false safety also presents risks, and not at all with regard to the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u296	I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand. The focus now is very much on privacy, on security. I understand that, too. Especially when it comes to digital solutions, you want to be confident that your data is safe there. But of course, because of the involvement of RIVM and the GGD, we also look at the applicability, so the functional requirements. And we formulate it with them. It is therefore a broad group of experts, also on the part of the infectious disease control, who will check whether this design is sufficiently useful. Isn't this what we're doing? We're not organizing false security? That is, of course, an element involved. The question is whether it actually supports the normal working process of the GGD. Does it actually support source and contact research? That's the goal, and that's the goal. So there are a lot of experts involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u297	Finally, I repeat my question that I asked in the debate last week, because the cabinet seems to be putting all its money on one solution, namely the app. While the experts we were able to read from just this weekend stress the conditions for the deployment of such a potentially significant resource. Let's get the order in order. First you have to be sure that this is necessary and that there is no other way. Last week, the minister said he wasn't even gonna find out if there was any other way. I repeat that the Minister is taking an enormous risk. If that app can't, because of the privacy issues, because of the false security, because of all the aspects that we have to weigh, then he's put all his cards on one means and didn't explore any alternatives. I think that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u298	Maybe the other way around: if we can't, we'll have to look for something else. But if it can, it would be incredibly practical to shape the source and contact research of the GGD. Otherwise, you will have to design that source and contact research of the GGD all the way with people. It takes hundreds and hundreds of people to do this type of source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u299	If the technique can be helpful to us, it is beautiful, but indeed subject to conditions. I mentioned a list and the Minister stopped by that list. I thought I was missing one, and I don't know if that's intentional or not, but it was voluntary, the nature of voluntary. That's a very precarious one, isn't it? Does the Minister assume that it will indeed be voluntary to install, use that app and leave your data in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u300	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u301	Okay. Please continue. At least...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u302	I'm definitely moving on. I think it's okay to make it clear. A number of questions have been asked about the app. I understand that the Chamber wants to be very closely involved in this process. The rhythm of decision-making is, of course, rapid. I have already said that it must never be at the expense of care. That is why I think it is right to emphasise the following. Of course, at the beginning of next week a selection will be made. That leads to a decision that we take in the letter. Only: the actual signing of the contract or the arrangement of use will of course never be done except after your Chamber has been able to speak to the Cabinet in a good way, and prior to that, of course, a hearing with the experts, whatever you want. Of course, your Chamber itself, from your controlling role, is ultimately concerned with what is actually happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u303	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u304	Mr. Chairman. Then I came to the questions, just a few, within the framework of the varia block. The first is the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u305	What's that block look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u306	Those are actually just three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u307	Then you can just say: there are three questions that I will answer soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u308	Well, I will, won't I? Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u309	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u310	The carers. Mr Segers, Mr Krol and Mr Van der Staaij asked. We need to help carers. I think it is increasingly an important issue for us. That should be on our retina, perhaps as a next target group where you would like to test more, for example, perhaps as a next target group where you would like to work more with personal protective equipment, for example; anyway, in all forms of support. That's what we're doing. There is a support offer via MantelzorgNL. There is also a helpline, the Mantelzorg line, via MantelzorgNL. In short, we are doing everything we can to support it. In addition, carers are of course also very involved in the follow-up, when it comes to how to design the visitor scheme. The question is whether the municipalities have sufficient quarantine capacity and whether they should not be controlled nationally in the context of the homeless. A directive on the reception of homeless people and homeless people has been drawn up. Centre municipalities shall implement this Directive in their region. The directive states that there must be sufficient entry and reception points. There is currently no national picture of the number of shelters and isolation sites. However, we have regular consultations with Valente and the VNG. We have not heard from them any signs that there would be insufficient places, but we will also, of course, keep our finger on the wrist there. Mr. Chairman. Maybe one more question in the area of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u311	From Mrs. Marijnissen, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u312	That was indeed Mrs Marijnissen, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u313	About the Dutch Vaccine Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u314	Let's see... Yes. So we're going to give that extra support. I will say a little more about the strategy we are pursuing next week. Anyway, you have to be on board all the initiatives, including international ones, that are about the investments in vaccine development. We're going to invest extra in that. There was a question from Mr Heerma about that last week. We want to increase our contribution to CEPI from 10 million to 50 million. This is the most important funding society of all kinds of initiatives around vaccines. But Mrs Marijnissen is absolutely right. If you think about the strategy further, then the production facility will of course also be discussed at some point. We have a number of vaccine developers in the Netherlands, but what you want, of course, is that the total production capacity around the world is enough to produce the vaccine to a sufficient extent, including in the Netherlands. Here too: the production of vaccines at home must be part of the vaccine strategy, even though you do not yet know which vaccine will be the first to reach the finish line. There are about 70 initiatives. I believe 8 out of 70 are the most likely. You don't know which one's gonna make it. At least we know that once one of these vaccines is actually developed and suitable, you must be able to go into production as soon as possible. Therefore, we need to build up sufficient production capacity in the Netherlands. I'd like to get back to that when we're further on inventing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u315	A question remained, however, about the Dutch Vaccine Institute. I do not know if that was your question, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, or Mrs Marijnissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u316	That was indeed my question. I do not know if Mrs Marijnissen had asked that question, but at least I asked this question. I am glad that the Minister is going to think about how we can scale up the research and also the production of the vaccine in the Netherlands, but the fact is that we have scaled down the last ten years. The Netherlands Vaccine Institute was a renowned institute worldwide. The basis of one third of the vaccines worldwide lies in cases investigated in Bilthoven. Then it is a huge shame that the last part, that research part of which the former Minister Klink said "that must really be preserved in the public interest for the Netherlands, so that we can always fall back on our own Dutch research in a virus outbreak or a pandemic," has just been sold. I'm asking the Minister what he's gonna do about it. Because once you cut back on such a renowned institution, it doesn't come back so soon. How's the Minister gonna solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u317	I think you're referring to Intravacc. We were about to sell it, but we didn't sell it. We didn't sell it on purpose, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u318	No, first the other question. I'm trying to speed things up. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u319	Last week on Radio 1 there was an investigation by Argos, a very extensive investigation into how the Dutch Vaccine Institute was sold and that the last part was actually sold in spite of what Minister Klink said by Minister Schippers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u320	Maybe you can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u321	Yeah, I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u322	I think it was a different question than just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u323	I think it's the same. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u324	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u325	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u326	Then we'll just wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u327	I have applied some selection, I have to admit, for the sake of fairness, but you obviously like that very much. Something for next time, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u328	Well, in terms of time, it's no different than last week, unfortunately, I have to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u329	It takes two to tango, president.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u330	Yeah, you got off to a good start. Anyway, there's a little progress in it. I see the Prime Minister. A few questions, I hear. I thought you'd come back to that in the second term. But fine, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u331	Mr. Chairman. Members will then have to repeat the questions in the second term. First of all, the question on the AIV opinion. Foreign Affairs has been in touch with the President, Mr De Hoop Scheffer, and he has said that it is possible to advise with a few weeks. That's really for a government advisory club very quickly, and that's what I mean sincerely. Then there is the question about that article on pandemic advice. Several reports have been published in recent years which have highlighted the importance of international cooperation on global health issues. We have also done what is necessary with these advices, they say that we have not always followed literally everything. RIVM has been asked to make an international scan of all international threats to Dutch health. Of course, there was also the outbreak of pandemics. The Netherlands also supports the WHO with a substantial cooperation programme. Between 2017 and 2019, the Netherlands took part in the WHO Executive Council. The Netherlands is also very active internationally in the field of health care. Both VWS, Mr De Jonge's ministry, and Foreign Affairs and BuHa-OS are working together, with of course everyone putting their own accents. Because, of course, we also have to make choices in the international context. The main focus will be on supporting international cooperation, with the added value for the Dutch health situation as high as possible. In other words, something has been done with these opinions. But if you get advice, it's not like you're gonna stamp "we're gonna take over." Finally, the question about a transition team. That is not the intention, because we are afraid that it will become too bureaucratic. I do agree with Mr Asscher that we must ensure that input from all sectors of society is well organised. The crisis also affects society as a whole, so it is important that we do so. But the shape of a transition team doesn't fit into our crisis structure right now. What we are doing now is at least trying to act in the spirit of what Mr Asscher suggested: that each minister should use his or her own networks for consultation and advice and ensure that at the right time the facts and knowledge are collected, so that we as a cabinet from all relevant sectors have the insights. We talk to municipalities, to education, to subsidised sectors, to companies. All these ideas are taken into account and, of course, this structure is kept as flexible as possible. And is that all gonna be public? It's not like all these discussions find their fallout in pieces. Some of those pieces are really still policy-making. But I take Mr Asscher's question as a wish to take the substance of the Chamber as far as possible into account in all considerations, in order to obtain as much of the facts as possible and so on, etc. We're definitely gonna do that. Mr President, that is what I wanted to say on the various questions that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u332	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u333	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply, the pleasant exchange of views and the extended tango. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that other European countries with a similar corona approach as the Dutch mouth caps are now using as part of their policy or transition/exit strategy;]] [[Whereas masks for specific target groups and specific situations outside care can contribute to a responsible transition and/or exit strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to identify whether and how the use of mouth caps can contribute to a responsible exit strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to take explicit account of the possible use of mouth caps in specific sectors and/or contact professions as part of the exit strategy to be defined;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u335	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u336	Thank you, Mr President. I also have three motions for resolutions. One is also about the mouth caps. The question of mine is not whether it has to be, but that it has to be. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that more and more countries, such as Germany and Belgium, recommend the use of oral protective agents such as mouth caps;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to include the use of oral protective devices such as mouth caps as part of the exit strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u337	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that about 8,000 care workers were infected or infected and that the virus was present in some 900 out of 2,500 nursing homes;]] [[noting that there is a great deal of fear among carers to become infected or to infect others;]] [[calls on the government to give care workers access to corona tests without restrictions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u338	I say again: this is also about the asymptomatic people who are concerned that they have been in contact with people who are infected, and that they can also carry it over when they have no complaints of their own. They also rightly want them to be tested themselves, even if they do not have any visible complaints, I repeat. Finally, the next motion. It's about the plane that should never have left for China when we had huge shortages of protective equipment here, with all the consequences that that would have had in the nursing homes and elsewhere. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a major cause of the spread of the coronavirus in long-term care is the lack of protective equipment;]] [[noting that millions of mouth caps and other protective equipment were flown from the Netherlands to China three days after the WHO warned against a global shortage of protective equipment;]] [[Considering that this should never have happened;]] [[declares that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should not have cooperated in the departure of this flight with Dutch protective equipment to China,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u340	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u341	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its first-term response and specifically for the Prime Minister's commitment to the urgent opinion of the International Affairs Advisory Council and the fact that it could come in such a short time. In my first term, I also asked questions about mouth caps and exit strategy. Mr Dijkhoff has just tabled a motion on this subject with Mr Klaver, which sums up rather well why this can and must be part of an exit strategy. At the end of my own term I discussed the need to produce more in the Netherlands and to be self-sufficient. Mrs Marijnissen has dealt with this in more detail and has already made a point of this. She will shortly be tabling a motion on this matter which I have signed with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u342	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u343	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the comprehensive answer, the commitment to ask for advice on how the Netherlands can contribute internationally in these difficult times and the Minister's commitment to the careful development of the apps. I said in my first term that we all long for the end of silence in these difficult times. I think that the Prime Minister has also warned us today that from next week it will not go back to normal in one go, but that we must take into account a continuous extension of many of the measures taken in recent times. If that is important to our public health, then we must do so. However, I would like to call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the Van der Staaij/Jetten motion this evening, which we tabled last week, to advise as a Chamber on how to properly monitor our fundamental rights in this type of far-reaching measure. In addition, Mr Asscher will shortly be making a motion on behalf of D66 colleague Van Weyenberg to support a private fund aimed at financially supporting healthcare workers who suffer permanent health damage during this corona crisis. That seems to me a very nice private initiative that can also embrace the cabinet, I hope. Finally, thank you to the Minister for the commitment to return in the letter of next week to the uncertainty that arose about the lead times that Dutch companies experience when they want to produce personal protective equipment in the Netherlands. I think it's very good to get the facts straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u344	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Mr Klaver has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u345	Mr President, thank you. In this debate we discussed the situation in the nursing homes in detail. It's very worrying. I did not always find the Minister's answers satisfactory. It is of the utmost importance that we protect these people as best we can. I maintain my conclusion that I have great doubts as to whether we have succeeded sufficiently in doing so in recent times. Together with Mr Dijkhoff, I have tabled a motion on the use of masks by the population in the exit strategy. I think it is important that we work out all the options well. We are not saying that it must necessarily be or that everyone must use them, but it must be very clear that we must study and map that option. So we have to buy in on that too. Finally. Next week we will discuss the exit strategy and all these measures. A commitment that was almost made between the nose and the lips, but which is really very important, is that the Minister has indicated that no irreversible steps are being taken in the area of the app that should be put in place without the Chamber being able to express its opinion on it. That is important, because many of the measures we are taking now are not just temporary. We're gonna suffer from that for a long time to come, or benefit. Especially one of those apps that brings all kinds of consequences. That is why I welcome that commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u346	I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current corona crisis shows that our country is vulnerable to the outbreak of pandemics;]] [[noting that the production of medicines and personal protective equipment has been relocated to countries outside the EU in recent decades, in particular to India and China;]] [[Whereas the research, development and production of new vaccines against dangerous infectious diseases has a strong public interest;]] [[calls on the government to submit a proposal to the Chamber before the summer on how to strengthen and extend the production of medicines, vaccines and protective equipment for both the short and long term in our country and within Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the measures taken against the coronavirus are necessary and understandable, but also have a significant impact on the residents of nursing homes and their relatives and carers;]] [[Whereas for nursing homes there is a complex ethical dilemma between, on the one hand, the quality of life of people with short life expectancy and, on the other hand, the optimal protection of elderly and staff from the corona virus;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a substantiated analysis of the content and ethics of the measures currently applicable to nursing homes and to extend these measures;]] [[calls on the Government to develop scenarios in consultation with field parties and to consider identifying risks and informing the Court of Justice in mid-May,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-255]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u348	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas care workers are doing important work in the fight against the corona virus in the frontline under difficult conditions;]] [[Whereas they are also at risk for their own health;]] [[whereas it is only logical to support them if they suffer permanent health damage or financial damage as a result;]] [[calls on the Government to provide financial support to a private fund to which these care workers are entitled;]] [[calls on the Government also to examine how benefits from such a fund can be treated in a fiscally favourable way, in order, for example, not to have a negative impact on the supplements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 21 April the Cabinet took decisions on the measures taken to prevent the spread of COOVID-19;]] [[noting that three anchor points have been described for this purpose, but it is not clear which (scientific) studies, data and advice are taken into account;]] [[calls on the Government to either scale the measures of the lockdown or to continue to share with the Chamber the balancing framework and opinions on the basis of which it is decided to do so prior to its decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-257]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-258]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u349	I welcome the Prime Minister's comments on this. I would add, however, that the OMT advice is also policy-making and that this is not a criterion. I assume, as we get more into the political phase, that all the opinions will be shared so that this Chamber can do its job on such important decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u350	I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u351	Madam President. I thank the two rulers for the answers given and for their work, of course. The maintenance of humanity in nursing home care is a great concern for me, and that is why I signed Mr Marijnissen's motion. Two questions have not been answered. In the rush, I do not think the VWS Minister has addressed the question of whether mental caregivers are on the list of crucial professions the NCTV has... I hear you've taken that up. Then there is a question to the Prime Minister about the exit strategy: will account be taken of the European context and regional differences in the Netherlands? Finally, a motion, Madam President. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on the Greek islands some 38,000 women, men and children are caught together and that the current corona outbreak could pose a major threat to them as well as to Europeans;]] [[Whereas evacuation to empty hotels and possibly still-going cruise ships under the Greek flag can provide a solution;]] [[noting that the Court has already expressed its concerns about the Greek camps but has still not been able to receive any public information as to how enlightenment is actually going to be provided;]] [[calls on the Government to urge Commissioner Johansson and the Greek Government to take all necessary actions to achieve evacuation of refugees to secure locations in Greece as soon as possible, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-259]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u352	Thank you, Mr President. The corona crisis is painfully exposing the vulnerabilities of our human actions and our economic system. We will have to fundamentally review the way we deal with animals and fragile nature. Questions about this are answered by the cabinet with silence and that is significant. We have seen a government that was very sorry to see chrysanthemums go crazy, but such a tragedy is now taking place in livestock farming. So we are talking about living animals that are going to be freaked out as if they were chrysanthemums. In order to make things worse, the meat sector is also referring to financial compensation. The Party for Animals is way out of line. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the meat sector is referring to public financial support for calvesmeesters affected by the corona crisis with marketing problems;]] [[Whereas by far the majority of calf farms are subsidiaries of the capitalist VanDrie Group;]] [[whereas the Van Drie family, with an estimated capacity of EUR 1 billion, is number 7 in the Quote 500;]] [[points out that state aid to the calf sector cannot in any case be considered if the VanDrie Group itself has not first substantially tackled the financial problems of its subsidiaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u353	Then the Animal Party will also vote on its motion to get veterinarians and animal caretakers on the list of vital professions, because the answers we received to the written questions on this matter from the Minister of LNV are actually crying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u354	Thank you. Did you pass that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u355	The motion is already on the list. But I thought: let me say it to my fellow Members; vote in favour of the motion in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u356	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u357	Thank you, Madam President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a new distribution model for protective equipment has been implemented since 13 April 2020;]] [[Whereas, in certain situations, carers also need protective means to perform their work safely;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the position of carers in the distribution model for protective equipment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-263]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u358	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to set up a national centre of expertise for psychosocial assistance for care workers, patients with COVID-19 and their relatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-262]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u359	Then there is the third motion, Madam President. It is striking that in some nursing homes there are no patients and in others there are no patients, and that in nursing homes with patients with the coronavirus there are also people who are not affected at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u360	And now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u361	There's got to be something to do with that, right? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of corona patients per nursing home is very variable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what policy has been achieved with regard to the number of corona patients;]] [[calls on the Government to use the results of this investigation to prevent further spread of the virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-261]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u362	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u363	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u364	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply and I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the protection of vulnerable people is one of the anchor points of the corona measures;]] [[noting that there is currently an incomplete picture of the number of corona infections and deaths in, among others, nursing homes, home care and the disabled sector;]] [[Whereas as complete and reliable a picture as possible is necessary to assess both the impact and the possible relaxation of the measures;]] [[calls on the Government to further define the objectives of protecting vulnerable people and to identify as best as possible whether the measures taken are effective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-264]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u365	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to put a motion to the vote which was tabled last week. Mr Jetten has already referred to this. That motion was held until the votes tonight. For the sake of clarity, it's the motion in part No. 234. Finally, I would like to thank you for the commitment that Mr Heerma made first, namely the AIV's emergency opinion on our international efforts. My last ten seconds I would like to focus on a point which came through the debate and which Mr Segers has already mentioned, namely the testing of the staff of social care. In this sector too, there is a desire to be included as a target group in a possible expansion in the future. I have therefore passed on to this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u366	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a very short technical question about something that still bothers me a little bit. My question is about the reproductive factor. I heard Mr Van Dissel say two weeks ago that he was at 0.3. Last week it was just under 1. Actually, I don't see anywhere in the graphs that that 0.3 has ever been reached. It's a bit technical, but maybe the Minister of Health can contact RIVM and get that sorted out. Did we ever get that 0.3 or not? I am sure that Mr Van Dissel said that two weeks ago. Mr. Chairman. Then two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that social and religious institutions have to deal with problems arising from the corona crisis, including loss of income and a fall in volunteers;]] [[noting that civil society organisations and religious institutions play an important role in society and provide vital support to people in crisis time;]] [[calls on the government to encourage and support municipalities in setting up a point of contact where social and religious institutions that have come into trouble as a result of the corona crisis can turn to help,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u368	The so-called NOW scheme also applies to civil society organisations, including religious organisations with the people they employ. So that's what we've come to terms with. What exactly is the added value of this motion? This is a question of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u369	That's a good question. Thank you, Mr Segers. I have been approached by religious institutions which, as I have just said, are not eligible for the NOW. They say that this €4,000 is a small amount because mosques sometimes collect €50,000 in a small municipality or sometimes €250,000 during the Ramadan period. That's actually half the cost. They're gonna get in real trouble. They are trying to solve this in a different way, for example via an app et cetera. But for a large part of the grassroots, of the active people, it's not very easy to raise the money in that way. My proposal is that we should be able to set up a point of contact where these institutions can go if they get into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u370	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u371	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, ...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u372	Mr Klaver has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u373	I still have a question about the possible financial support of religious institutions. How does it relate to the separation between Church and State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u374	That's an interesting question, too. I worked at the Cultural Heritage Agency for a number of years. I noticed that we gave EUR 50 million to churches every year in the context of the fact that they were a monument. I asked myself that question at the time. During the time I was there, at least 150 million went to ecclesiastical institutions based on the idea that this is justified. Those are just subsidies that have been applied for. I can imagine that in periods this was sometimes EUR 50 to EUR 100 million per year. That just happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u375	I'm afraid we're having another discussion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u376	This happened in the context of the building of the church foundation being a monument. In this context, subsidies were granted for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u377	Mr Baudet, one question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u378	I would just like to say that I am a great supporter of our fantastic Christian heritage and our fantastic Jewish-Christian tradition, including through financial resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u379	It's happening all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u380	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u381	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that as a result of the corona crisis many people suffer from a decline in income;]] [[noting that the Dutch economy could use a little support at this difficult time;]] [[noting that the Prime Minister promised €1,000 to all Dutch people in 2012;]] [[believes that promise makes guilt;]] [[calls on the government to pay all adult Dutch tax-free €1,000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u382	I see the Minister is excited!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u383	Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u384	I shall first retable my motion from two weeks ago. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas information on the total number of people infected with or already infected with the coronavirus in the Netherlands is not yet available;]] [[Whereas such information is of great importance in order to be able to conduct effective policies;]] [[Whereas such information can be obtained by sampling among a representative proportion of the population;]] [[calls on the government to organise a sample at the shortest possible time, which has not happened in spite of the Minister's previous promises,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-267]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u385	Then about the mortgage interest rate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks are considering increasing mortgage interest rates;]] [[Whereas this may constitute a serious brake on the housing market which may have disruptive effects;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to take measures to encourage mortgage lenders to postpone interest rate increases during the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u386	Then there's the third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the catering sector is one of the hardest affected sectors of the current package of measures;]] [[noting that an intelligent exit strategy is needed to save the catering industry and many catering businesses from bankruptcy;]] [[noting that the cabinet consistently presists on a long-term economy of one and a half metres, even after 28 April;]] [[Whereas applying the one-and-a-half-meter economy to catering represents a structural turnover loss of up to 70%, which is not a solution both financially, in terms of implementation and in terms of hospitality, which threatens to bankrupt many catering businesses;]] [[calls on the cabinet to work with the catering sector on alternative intelligent solutions, such as door temperature measurements, delaying major events and the use of adequate protective equipment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u387	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u388	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a protocol should be drawn up for all sectors in order to launch;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently assess the plans of entrepreneurs so that entrepreneurs can reopen their doors as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the likelihood that people who have already had corona may again receive corona or infect others is very low or not present;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of more flexible measures for people who have already had corona,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the lockdown measures were introduced until 28 April 2020;]] [[Considering that the longer the uncertainty continues, the greater the damage to business;]] [[calls on the Government to declare that, by 28 April 2020 at the latest, the dates to be determined will be reopened, with protective measures such as mouth caps, gloves and temperature measurement, where appropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-270]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-271]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u389	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. We need a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u390	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor. 22 motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u391	We're gonna try to do it real fast. There was another question about EU coordination. That is complicated, I say to Mr Segers, because countries are confronted with the crisis at different times and you can also see that there are really differences between countries in how they deal with it. Eventually, if you look at it from a little more distance, you can see that it is all very similar: social distancing and the accompanying measures. The European Commission is really trying to look at this. Today a piece has come out of at least Von der Leyen, the President of the Commission, but I also thought of Michel, President-in-Office of the Council, with guidance: how could countries coordinate this better? We'll have to study that again. What we are doing now, of course, is all being done on the basis of WHO opinions. That actually applies to all countries. In that sense, I am not so worried about it. There is also a lot of contact between the chiefs and also some health ministers. At least there will be another European Council next Thursday. It is certainly on the agenda there. Without a doubt, everyone there will talk about what they're doing. I'm not under any illusions about perfect coordination, but it's not like it goes without it. No major accidents happen, that's my picture. The most important questions remain across borders. There are, of course, differences. The border between Germany and France is close, with all the consequences for trade and for the movement of border workers, but fortunately the border between the Netherlands and Germany is open. Then there is the question of whether regional is a variant. I would really like to refer to the OMT opinion, which we have to give a political opinion on. Of course, there are a lot of hooks and eyes to a situation where some parts of the Netherlands are in a bigger lockdown than other parts, because what do you do with someone who travels from one part to another? Anyway, that raises a lot of complicated questions. It seems to me the best thing for me to move this out for a moment to see if the OMT will even come up with it. Mr President, with the motion on item No. 251 I totally agree. Then am I taking over her, or is it judgment room? What do the proposers want? Can I take her?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u392	Does no one object to taking over the motion in part No. 251? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u393	I'll take her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u394	The Dijkhoff/Klaver motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u395	The motion in part No. 252, I advise, because it's already been decided. So there's no room in that anymore. The motion in part No. I therefore advise against the background of my opinion on the motion in part No. 252. 251. The motion in part No. 254, I advise. I have said a few things about this in my first term and what is written here is simply not right. So the motion in part No. 254, I advise. The motion in part No. 258 is about the balancing framework. I have already said: maximum transparency and accountability. But I am not going to promise that we will inform the Chamber in advance of any decisions that may be taken as from next week. So that's why. In spirit, I agree, but she has become too bureaucratic for me. The motion in part No. 258, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u396	It's in the word "before," I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u397	Mmm... I have studied this motion very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u398	I heard that. I heard about a very positive basic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u399	But now that Mr Asscher speaks to me, the government is asking for the framework and opinions... Unfortunately, it won't be that exact. It is not the case that next week we have a perfect balancing framework and that all the opinions are on paper. What I have to do with Hugo de Jonge is, I think, to make sure that we send the Chamber a letter which states exactly what we are going to do and in which we take these elements with us as best we can. But there's not a mastersheet with a balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u400	The motion isn't asking for a master's sheet, is it? That's a nice suggestion, but for another time. We're getting the OMT's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u401	That's what you're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u402	We want to see what the cabinet does with that. I am actually asking in parallel: give the advice of others than the OMT because it does not come through the OMT version that you are using for the decision. That seems to me to be useful for a democratic decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u403	The OMT is going to say at some point whether there is any room or not. And if there was any room, then the OMT will also be on hitting whether that is space in the sphere of economy or in the sphere of schools or social. If there is one. In there we have to come with things; that's all it will be. They'll be things and not things, so is my expectation, if they're anything at all. Maybe it's nothing at all. I continue to dissuade you, Mr. Chairman. It suggests a piece of bureaucracy that doesn't make me happy. I think we are going to serve Mr Asscher to the spirit of the motion. But here a structure is named that we just don't know yet if it works. Maybe it'll work. Let me agree: if we can do it next week, we will; but I do not want to commit to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u404	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u405	For that we are really still searching too much for the exact form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u406	No, Mrs. Ouwehand. It's not your motion. It is Mr Asscher's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u407	The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. I'm prepared to raise this, no, wee. I'm not gonna do it myself; it's probably through the responsible Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 260 of the Animal Party does not seem to me to be a motion on which we should comment. It seems to me to be a motion addressed to the Chamber, doesn't it? I don't think I'd give an opinion on that. If I had given it to you, I would have advised against the motion. But I didn't say that. The motion in part No. 265 is about helping social and religious organisations. Providing such support to religious organisations does not seem to me to be a task of the government. It is also really up to the religious communities themselves to discuss this, including with municipalities. So I guess I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. The motion in part No. 266 is about that $1,000. I already reflected on that at the start of the election campaign in 2016. How many times can this cow be pulled out of the trap! So I'm deceiving the motion. That was one of my less strong moments. The motion in part No. Mr Baudet's 268 concerns mortgage interest. I'd advise against it. We are aware of the payment problems of people who cannot pay, but this is really about new mortgages. So we shouldn't. The motion in part No. 269 is about the catering business. The content of this motion really goes far too far. This must really be from the OMT. This kind of thing cannot be decided here as politically as ex cathedra. Then the motion to part No. 270 members of Van Haga and Baudet. Yeah, so we're gonna have to go ahead with the entrepreneurs somehow? I don't see the whole health service anymore. So the motion in part No. 270, I'm not sure. I also advise against the motion in part No. 272. We really can't anticipate OMT's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u408	I see that Mr Baudet has a question to ask. What motion do you have a question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u409	The motion in part No. 270. The operative part of this motion is: "calls on the Government to urgently assess the plans of entrepreneurs so that entrepreneurs can reopen their doors as soon as possible." So it leaves room for all the medical considerations that could be there. I have always been a warm supporter of putting health care, people's health and so on. However, I am in favour of being flexible wherever possible with regard to proposals from entrepreneurs, such as those with a catering business. There's nothing against making this gesture to that sector, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u410	Entrepreneurs are crucial to our economy. We don't have to convince each other about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u411	No, but we can keep an eye on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u412	As soon as there is some room, from the health care point of view, in order to broaden the measures, we must, of course, do the same. And I hope that will be possible on April 28th. I also hope that might help companies. But it will also be about other matters. Possibly about education, about broad societal issues. If it's possible! But this motion focuses only on entrepreneurs. The second problem that I have with it is that even if you can judge entrepreneurs' plans as a matter of priority, there will always be the issues of the cross-cutting dilemmas. These are the two I have already mentioned: public transport and the large groups of people who have to travel through small streets and through narrow stairs at the beach. All this must be taken into account. In the spirit of Baudet and I fully agree, but this motion puts a kind of one-sided focus on just that piece. And I'd love to, but I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u413	Thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. I see Mr Asscher walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u414	I want the motion in part no. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Then we will see if it comes to the Chamber next week with the Prime Minister's promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u415	At the request of Mr Asscher, I propose his motion (25295, No. 258). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u416	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I am not going to advise 253 of Mr Wilders and a lot of others, because he is asking the government to give care workers access to corona tests without restrictions. At first, I thought, "That's right." Indeed, the last directive is precisely that care workers should be able to be tested. Of course, they'd have to have complaints. At that time Mr Wilders explained this: this also applies to care workers who, although they do not yet have any complaints, have the idea of "I have been in contact with". The problem, of course, is that such a test result is probably negative if you have no complaints yet. A false negative result while you may have it, but you will be tested when this is not possible from the test, of course we will not help each other. So you have to have complaints before you can be tested. It is precisely because of this explanatory statement that I can only advise against the motion. But let's be clear: if you have complaints and work in healthcare, you need to be tested. Then the Marijnissen/Pieter Heerma motion in part No. 255. I'm going to leave that judgment to the Chamber. I'm gonna make one comment. There is a rather tight timetable in the motion, namely for the summer. It is really about something very important, namely: can we manage to control the production of medicines, vaccines and protective equipment more in our own hands? Both for the short term and for the longer term, we are of course working on this. That takes, I think, a little more thinking than we can do for the summer. Our whole department is putting out fire right now. So I'm gonna leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I'm gonna be a little stubborn in the time I'm gonna take for it. It just has to be a good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u417	Of course, I agree that it must be a good plan. It is nice if at least we can try to do it before the summer. We'll see how far we can get with that. I have a very short other question. Between the nose and the lips, the Minister said that the privatisation of Intravacc was not going to happen. I am very curious to see if any more information can be sent to the Chamber. We have often argued in favour of this, so we are very pleased. But some more information would be welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u418	Yes. I said that last week, also in an intermediate sentence, by the way. In fact, I think I put it in an in-between letter. It was in the sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u419	You have so many intermediates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u420	Yeah, but that's the way you see it: there's a lot of valuable stuff in there. You just have to listen carefully. It was a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen: what about it? The Dutch Vaccine Institute does indeed have a very long history. It had a research leg and a production leg. The production leg has been sold a long time ago. The research leg has become Intravacc. The research leg of immunology has remained with the RIVM. In order to avoid conflict of interest, Intravacc has been tried to self-regulate and sell. We have put that on hold for a moment, precisely in the light of the latest developments. We will inform you more about this when there is more to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u421	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u422	Then there is the Marijnissen/Segers motion in part No. 256. I'm going to leave the verdict to the Chamber on that. We have discussed this in detail and I shall leave it to the Chamber to judge by reference to the first period of that debate. It should not be concluded that the visitor scheme will be made more flexible. No, it has to be concluded that we have the search to continue to combine the medical side and the human side as best as possible. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Asscher/Van Weyenberg on item No. 257 I'm going to leave the judgment to the Chamber, referring to last night's letter. This also means, I think, that you're trading in last week's motion that you pulled over for this one. I'm very much in favour of that. So I am going to leave the judgment to the Chamber, with one small remark, namely the tax exception. I understand that very well from the point of view of content, but I must, of course, have some contact with Mr Vijlbrief. Now you're asking "to investigate," so that's what we're gonna do. Then the motion-Krol c.s. in piece No. 261 in which the government is asked what policy results. That's about the differences you just see at location level. Sometimes the outbreak manages to contain and sometimes the outbreak goes right through the whole house. That is exactly what we are doing, namely learning from that implementation practice. In that sense, I would actually like to support the motion. By the way, I'd be happy to write those lessons once. The word "research" suggests a very long investigation, but we don't have time for that. So we're gonna learn the lessons from practice and I'm gonna have those lessons articulate by a party that's appropriate for that. At some point, I'll let you know in a letter. We have to want to learn those lessons, even for the sequel. If I may explain the motion in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 262, which calls on the government to set up a national centre of expertise. I'm going to dissuade them because they already exist. This already exists for employees and it's with ARQ. We also support them nationwide. So there's that nationwide expertise center, and that's why I'm going to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 263 calls on the government to pay attention to the position of carers in the distribution model. We have developed the distribution model and the next step is indeed to see if we can accommodate carers. This probably requires a small adjustment of the distribution model. That is what we are working on, and I would therefore like to leave it to the Chamber to decide on this. That motion is actually support policy. The motion in part No. 264.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u423	Judge Room, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u424	It is about the motion for a resolution, Madam President. That's what the Minister said: we're already doing that. I'm not gonna file a motion for something that's already happening, so I'm gonna move it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u425	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u426	I'm at the motion in part No. 264. It calls on the government to further define the objectives for the protection of vulnerable people. That was the interrupting debate I had with Mr Van der Staaij. On that motion, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. We are now following and indicating the expected development as best we can. Every week we discuss with the RIVM what the image is and what it takes to correct those results. It will therefore not be a separate study, but lies within the work process of the crisis organisation and the further articulation of what this anchor point should actually be like. That's how I understood our little interrupting debate. If I may explain the motion to that effect, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. It is also always nice to be able to say 'in that capacity', Mr President. The motion in part No. 267 calls on the government to organise a sample at the shortest possible time. Extraordinary consistency of Mr Baudet. I would also like to say that my judgment is consistent with that, namely that I do not recommend it. First of all, we are going to wait for the results of the investigations that we are already doing, and the question that Mr Baudet still had, of course, I am going on to the RIVM. I'll come back to that next week. The motion in part No. 271 calls on the government to examine the possibility of introducing more flexible measures for people who have already had corona. I think this motion is really untimely. If I look very kindly at this motion, I could ask you to arrest her. We can simply say: let us have this discussion when we have the luxury of having this discussion with each other. Let me remind you of what the Prime Minister said about this: at this stage we must take very carefully and very carefully very small steps. It is not now the stage to think about a huge relaxation for people who have already experienced the infection. In addition, serological tests exist at individual level, and my debate with Mr Dijkhoff has not yet taken place, at least not serological tests with a reliable outcome at individual level. In short, this is not the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u427	This motion is also intended, of course, precisely by those comments. To examine the extent to which it is possible to eventually adopt more flexible measures, of course with the comments you have just mentioned. In that case, I would say: simply give that motion judgment Chamber and take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u428	No, I do not, because day after that the motion could then be explained in such a way that this is indeed a possibility that exists in the short term and that is not the case. Scientists are not at all clear about the relationship between antibodies that people build up and the degree of immunity. There are currently no serological tests that provide a reliable outcome at individual level, sufficiently reliable to allow this type of measures to be grafted on. Yes, later, when we are months away and that possibility does indeed arise: of course we will do so at that time. But until then, I'm not gonna give the impression that it's possible. So I'm just going to dissuade the motion. I think that's clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u429	Are you going to arrest her?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u430	Well, Mr. Chairman. It doesn't say "short-term," so I'm not gonna arrest her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u431	Okay, thank you. Then the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u432	Then I'm really gonna dissuade her, otherwise we're gonna make suggestions that just can't. Then I had a few more questions, Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question, about the Vaccine Initiative and Intravacc and how the sale of at least Intravacc has been stopped. The production facility had already been sold to the Indians. It's still in Bilthoven, by the way. Anyway, I don't think I really need to do that reconstruction right now. Mr Segers' question: are the mental caregivers also included in the crucial professions? Yeah, that's the answer. The profession of spiritual caregiver and that of clergymen is not explicitly mentioned on the list of crucial professions, but falls under the heading "care and social support." I am prepared to include it explicitly in the list so that the misunderstandings that might arise about it do not arise. Then I have one more question. That is Mr Azarkan's question about the reproduction number, the R. That's under 1. By the way, who would have thought a few months ago that we could have this debate about the number of reproduction? The R is now under 1. The question is: could it be that Mr Van Dissel said that it was 0.3? I do not have an active reminder of that, I would say, but I am going to put that question to Mr Van Dissel. I do not think it could have fallen that low, but let us simply put that question to Mr Van Dissel. He'll come back to that in the technical briefing next week. I know he's following the debate. He'll come back to that without a doubt next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u433	Who would have thought a month or two ago that we would only have this kind of debate here in the Chamber? The world has really changed. Still, it's something else for me. I'm asking for a letter from the government. We can do that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. But I do not agree that if I ask the Minister a question about the reproductive factor, I will be able to ask Mr Van Dissel next week what exactly is the situation. I'm just asking the Minister of Health. I'm gonna ask if that's gonna be sorted out in two days and be in the Chamber. Because when people start talking about "active memory," I get the Spanish stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u434	That was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u435	That was a joke, indeed. Mr Azarkan asks a question about something that was said a few weeks ago in a technical letter, not by me, but by Mr Van Dissel. That is a question I am going to ask Mr Van Dissel. I'd be happy to return that on paper, fine, but that's in next week's letter. That's next Tuesday night's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u436	Good. Thank you. That's what we're... Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u437	Mr. Chairman. I have an order proposal to the cabinet. The normal rule is that the Chamber is first informed and then the press. Now we have been seeing press conferences for a number of weeks and the letter comes in the course of the night. I want to know when we can get back to normal. More specifically, how are things next week? Does the Cabinet take decisions on Tuesday, including the press conference, so that we can take this into account when planning our debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u438	It's a good thing you're asking that question. I think my department would also very much like to go back to normal. Because if you see what the burden of each week is on this debate and prepare every week the letter in which everything that happened that week is reported, because your questions are quite right to be quite endless, and if you see the number of sets of written questions that also came in last week... It's just a young thing. The department has a crisis to manage and also has to inform the Chamber as well as possible. It's gonna take an unlikely bet. In many positions there is a double occupancy and it is only overtime, overtime, overtime. So yes, indeed: the maximum we can do is make our decision next week. Then we inform society as best we can. We do this in general terms; that is never at the level of detail that your Chamber deserves. Then we'll finish the letter. We're trying to round it up for the night and send it just before nightfall. Something about midnight last night, I think. Next week we'll do our best to do that as early as possible, but it's an unlikely amount of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u439	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u440	Maybe one more thing in addition. It might be good for the Chamber to know that I myself have a European Council on Thursday, so if the Chamber decided not to do the debate on Wednesday but on Thursday, it would be largely without me. The room needs to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u441	Today, I think, on behalf of the entire Chamber, I would like to express my appreciation for the hard work in the Ministry. Sure. But we also need to be able to plan it a little well, because when the letter comes at night... We're in the briefing early the next morning and the debate is in the afternoon. We must all be able to read it properly, hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u442	I understand that very well. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u443	Mr. Azarkan, we're not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u444	No. Certainly not, Mr. Chairman. I want to help the minister. On 1 April at 3.04 p.m., the NOS reports that it is moving in the right direction to reduce the corona contamination: "RIVM director Jaap van Dissel told in the Lower House that 1 corona patient is currently on average only 0.3 others infected. This is a clear decline." I notice that the Minister says: I did not get that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u445	Good. Thank you. You may respond, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u446	I have already indicated that I am putting this question to Mr Van Dissel. He'll respond to that. I will put that in a letter following next Tuesday, preferably as early as possible. By the way, all technical briefings can also be looked back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u447	Thank you. That concludes this debate, which actually lasted almost as long as last week. I think there's a difference of about half an hour. I want to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u448	I shall suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m. and then we shall vote.
