ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the Tax Collection Act 2021, Section 35437. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Finance; thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u2	We have seven speakers from the Chamber. The first is already impatient: Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group. He has five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact that I was ready also has to do with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure tomorrow. So I know how important it is to make pace. As a 50PLUS, we agree with the measures taken on foundations with an anbistatus. I have to say, unfortunately from my own experience, that I noticed with a few foundations that I was involved in before I entered the Chamber, that the IRS is not always accurate. The Tax Administration does not use the details of the Chamber of Commerce for the establishment addresses, but sends things to addresses that were in the old file. In one case, this has wrongly led to a withdrawal, of which the foundation concerned was not aware. That's very annoying, precisely because the foundation in question was bequestd during that period. A requirement of a Vog declaration for directors shall be supported by possible convictions for terrorist activities. However, it is up to the tax inspector to carry out a special investigation task, namely to ascertain whether someone has been convicted. I would like a little more explanation from the Secretary of State on how the government sees this process. However, the most important point for 50PLUS is that it will not be surprising to deal with the abolition of the household care Compliment. In 2015, following the disastrous changes in the new Wmo, the household care compliment was handed over to the municipalities. Unfortunately it turned out to be a fool's errand that more customization would be delivered, because it didn't go beyond a few parties. This also means that, as the explanatory statement states, there is no link between the reduction of inheritance tax and the maintenance compliment. As a result of questions we have asked, the explanatory statement also states that alternatives have been examined, but they have not been found to exist. That answer does not convince us, because it does not in any way justify what alternatives there are for where the problems were. In this respect, we think that carers are being burdened too heavily, because this is not directly about those who already have a family relationship in the first degree, but this is really about people who also provide care in another way. So these are not people you would expect in advance to do the care and on which the government, including the previous cabinet, has based a whole policy with participation. This is about people who really take care of someone else out of the goodness of their hearts. They would receive a kind of reward for that in this way. I would like to hear more from the Secretary of State. Otherwise, I think I will still be tabling a motion on this in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr. Chairman. On 17 October last year we had a special visit here in the Lower House. Then came the American writer Anand Giridharadas here to tell us about his book about and analysis of the American plutocracy, Winners Take All, or in the Dutch translation: Why the super rich will not change the world. Earlier that year we could read that Follow the Money, the journalistic research platform, had seen from a sample that many anbis do not have financial accountability in order. Despite the fact that we have a doubling of the number of charities and they often try to act in good faith, something is wrong. What Giridharadas pointed out to us is that philanthropy is a beautiful thing, but of course it can never undermine the task of public investment. In fact, you get a plutocracy when the government withdraws and starts from generous donors who will fill the gaps that the government drops. He pointed out that that is even dangerous, and that you also need a fair tax system to solve it. That is what I want to discuss here today. In this country, we have different ways of exempting wealth from taxation. There is no capital tax in our country. Anyone can set up an e.g. to avoid tax, to lend money to themselves and to act as a deduction. There are deductions that are so huge that consultancy firms advertise heavily on them. The donation deduction is an essential part of this. I do not see any moral reason why we should favour gifts in this way. It actually only increases inequality, because we know that those who can give are generally the ones who have more. They can therefore deduct more and therefore pay less tax. This encourages the survival of the wealthiest families and masks the big problem of income and wealth inequality in our country. In an opinion article in Het Financieele Dagblad, Sigrid Hemels.. that is someone who is regularly flown in to put all kinds of tax advisory tasks of the government and large companies in a positive light.................................................................................................................................................................... And that's a true word. 'Cause who's gonna serve the gift deduction anyway? In fact, people who give money determine what is important, and so that is no longer a task for all of us. Charities should do a kind of popularity contest in this way who is the best for the biggest donors.That's actually what Rutte I has done with Zijlstra and the cultural savings.............................................................................................................................................. That has therefore been removed from democratic decision-making. There's a lot going wrong with the anbis, too. We are standing here today because we say that if people have a foundation that is an anbi and they have made it possible to finance terrorism, we really do not want to give them the opportunity to deduct those donations, that money. Of course, that makes sense, but there is no investigation into the degree of vulnerability of this bunch when it comes to money laundering, lugging money away, thus paying no or less tax, but also swindling people who have made donations in good faith. Follow the Money sample among 50 anbi's showed that one third of the cases were not in order. I would like the Secretary of State to investigate this vulnerability, because we know it is happening. Only a few weeks ago, the day before we went on recess and the night we were going to vote, I was debating his new philanthropy vision with the Minister for Legal Protection. I asked him if the risk of money laundering, scam money or scam people shouldn't also be part of that philanthropy vision. I do not want to say that this always happens, quite the contrary, but it does happen. Then I got an answer that I couldn't do that much with. I actually don't think that many people who followed that could do anything with it. The Minister for Legal Protection also acknowledged that he could not give an answer. He referred me to this Secretary of State and said that he was going to ask this Secretary of State to send a letter on fraud and anti-money laundering policy in the donation deduction. I haven't seen that letter yet. It's been recess, of course. Anything can come back. But look at the way we're having another discussion, the one about the supplementing affair. That went terribly wrong. We said "we can't," "we can't" and "we have to turn it on even more strictly." At the same time, we know that we are talking about almost half a billion less tax revenues in our budget................................................................................................................................................................................................. I think that's a form of class justice. Mr. Chairman. In this bill, it's all about adding a statement about behavior. That's not so crazy. But what I have clearly asked and what is also made clear to me from the answers is that for checking those more than 40,000 anbis that are there, there are about 43 000; it changes a little bit about 40 inspectors, who can't even see if those anbis do meet the conditions. Now we are going to impose a new condition, which is to have a vog, but should we not really be talking about whether the Tax Administration can carry out this task properly? Do they have enough people to do that? If I can help the Secretary of State by filing a motion, I'd be happy to. If you keep this system and if you keep the Gift Law and the Gift Deduction that way, you should at least be able to make sure you're sure it's right. So, on the one hand, I see the risk of raffle edges. But that can be big money, because money laundering or tax avoidance is always about big money. This is about money that we believe should either not have been obtained and should have been resolved in the judicial system, that is to say in the case of money laundering, or in the case of money that is subject to tax. I'd like to see that. I would also like this Secretary of State to ensure that supervision can be improved. Is he willing to do that? There is another question about the legislative proposal, which we have already put in the written round. It is now said that the limit for cash in transport is €10,000. But in the case of payments, because of money laundering arguments, they said that you can't pay more than €3,000 in cash. You're actually already suspicious up there. I was wondering if this is a good balance. Shouldn't the transport of money be on the same line? Because who can send $10,000 to a third? These are generally people who have a lot of money. That doesn't mean they're suspicious as far as I'm concerned, but if you want to buy a car and make a deposit of €5,000, why shouldn't you? Then you are actually suspected by that limit of €3,000, while you set the limit in another anti-money laundering measure to another amount. What's the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u6	Thank you. Mrs Lodders, from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr. Chairman. In this country we have different groups of people who are committed to Dutch society, people who put their hands up to make the Netherlands more beautiful or make life better, or as it is formulated in the law: people who are committed to the common good. Today we are discussing the Tax Collection Act 2021. For my group, there are the most important changes to the anbi's and the corresponding deductions. Mr. Chairman. An organisation or institution may be regarded as an anbi, a public utility institution. Once she has the anbistatus, the organisation or charity can count on tax benefits. Donators to an anbi can also count on an additional donation deduction. As far as my group is concerned, this method is not under discussion. Tax advantage can be an incentive for people or entrepreneurs to donate money to a charity. However, we must be able to prevent abuse, fraud or undesirable situations. That is why the VVD welcomes the present law. First of all, the automatic granting of anbistatus to bodies governed by public law outside the European Union and the Caribbean Netherlands will be discontinued. That's a big profit. It is, of course, crazy to say that the North Korean government, the army in Sudan or states that do not have the general interest in mind are automatically allocated an anbistatus. So we are putting a heavy brake on tax incentives for dictators. I think that's a win. This was a specific request from Mr Omtzigt I can already hear him and myself, with the support of the entire Chamber. In addition, we are going to tackle abuse and fraud more severely. Mr. Chairman. The VVD welcomes these changes, but in order to protect the benevolent anbis, my group would like to tempt the Secretary of State to go further on a number of points. First of all, public-law organisations. So these are the public organisations outside the European Union. As I said, it's a big profit that they don't automatically get that anbistatus. Two questions to the Secretary of State. Can he confirm that there will be a serious procedure if countries or public-law organisations outside the EU want to apply for an anbi-status and that the conditions attached to an anbi-status will actually be taken into account? And can the Secretary of State confirm that all the anbistatus we're talking about here, so I'm talking about the statuses that have been granted automatically? When will this operation be performed? Mr. Chairman. Then the tightening of the integrity test. I asked the predecessor of this Secretary of State to come up with a proposal on organisations which clearly do not comply with the Constitution, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights or international law in their objectives, statements and actions. They should not be entitled to anbistatus. Whether a person fulfils the public benefit is not only demonstrated by the objective that is pursued on paper, but also by the way in which one behaves. Institutions that stand up for the common good but then deny the democratic rule of law by breaking in, putting people at risk or plotting a terrorist attack seem to be able to do so without affecting anbi status. That should be different. The current law tightens the integrity test. The tightening of this key will help, but the question is whether it is sufficient. There will be a power whereby a tax inspector can request a vog in case of "reasoned doubt." But what's reasonable doubt? Can the Secretary of State explain that? The Secretary of State has indicated that he expects that the anbistatus will not be withdrawn very often. That is, as far as I am concerned, the wrong attitude. The integrity test and the tightening of the rules should be aimed at tackling fraudulent institutions and institutions that, for example, plot a terrorist attack or endanger people. Can the Secretary of State explain why he thinks or expects that this anbistatus will not be withdrawn very often? The VVD believes that an anbistatus should not be abused by malicious people. It should be clear which procedures should be followed if an organisation or a person is clearly linked to an organisation which does not comply with the Constitution or affects the legal order. Is this an automatic part of the course of justice, or do people who have or have had to do so have to take action themselves? What steps will the Secretary of State and the Tax Administration take to clarify the procedure on this issue? I would like to ask the Secretary of State to monitor specifically how often an anbistatus is taken. If necessary, the VVD will come forward with additional proposals. There are regular debates on this subject. Mr. Chairman. The obligation to publish anbi's has many freedoms, so adequate control is not always possible. That is why I asked, together with Mr Omtzigt, to make the use of standard forms compulsory. Standard forms lay down minimum financial transparency requirements. This is important to gain more insight into money flows, such as donations and donations from non-EU countries and direct or indirect donations from non-free countries. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State does not yet wish to make those standard forms compulsory. One of the arguments is that this would place too much administrative burden on small anbis. The Secretary of State has chosen to make available standard forms that an anbi can use on a voluntary basis. I understand the Secretary of State's argument that a compulsory form creates a major administrative burden for a small anbi institution. But volunteering does not do justice to the adopted motion. In order to meet those smaller anbi-institutions, I have tabled an amendment which is now being amended, so that Mr Omtzigt's name underneath is also required to make the standard forms mandatory for an anbi with a certain amount of money flows. The size or level of donations must then be filled in by ministerial arrangements. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to promise that this will be done before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u8	It is basically a fine amendment, but why larger institutions? If there is and is offered a standard form, would you expect smaller institutions to use it and have their financial accountability in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u9	That is a fair question from Mrs Leijten. That was also the original objective of the motion that we tabled in mid-2018, which was also supported by you and your party. The Secretary of State believes that this administrative burden is too heavy for the smaller anbis in particular, so I have chosen an intermediate route in the amendment and asked for that amount to be reflected in the ministerial regulation. As far as I am concerned, that amount should be as low as possible in order to achieve as much financial transparency as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u10	Of course, there are all kinds of rules for transparency. If such a standard form would help, you would say: you enter it for everyone. In principle, I find that illogical with the amendment, whereas I think it is a step in the right direction that we require it. The big goals have already joined the CBF and all kinds of things where they have some kind of internal supervision. I'm struggling with the Secretary of State saying it would create administrative burdens, knowing you have to meet obligations, if you apply for an anbi status. You should say to the front door: "Ask an anbi, even though you are a small foundation for a beautiful personal purpose. This standard form is part of that and make sure that it is in order, otherwise we cannot consider you an anbi." I would find that much more purer, because we also know that with the smaller, less professional anbi's, however well-intentioned they are, mistakes are often made that are not meant to have major consequences. I am in favour of broadening the amendment in order to shape it in this way. Then it's just mandatory for everyone, big or small.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u11	Once again, Mrs Leijten's point is clear. That was also the thrust of the debate that we held in 2018, in which this motion was also produced. The Secretary of State has his reasons, so I would like to ask what his opinion is on this amendment and how he intends to shape the ministerial arrangement. I understand that, and that is why I have designed the amendment in this way, because I have also been in contact with the charity sector. There are a number of small institutions that really have their affairs in order, which might give you too much administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u12	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u13	Mr President, you have heard, in my speech I asked for research to solve all kinds of fringes. I am thinking of good conditions at the gate and the use of such a standard form. You can use that to solve raven edges. What amazes me so much, and perhaps Mrs Lodders and I can ask this together: on what basis does the Secretary of State find that small cannot handle it? Is that based on the conversations with the lobby organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u14	But that is a question for the Secretary of State, not Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u15	In response to Mrs Leijten's question, let me say that it is an interesting question, which we are passing on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u16	What a collaboration! Those are...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u17	I am sure we will come back to this in the second term, let us agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u18	One-two. Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u19	I do have a feeling that there are a number of small organisations for which this is an excessive administrative burden or where too much of the donations have to be spent on that administrative burden. But I wonder what amount the proposers themselves think of when they talk about a border. It's nice of you to leave it to the Secretary of State, of course, but I think you yourself have an amount in your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u20	No, I do not have that amount in mind, because I am looking forward to the consideration of the Secretary of State on what kind of debt, and that is in fact in line with Mrs Leijten's question. That is why I would like to do so in the case of ministerial arrangements; not for nothing have I asked for the commitment to do so this year. I have now understood from the Ministry of Finance, with which we have prepared the amendment, that it should also be feasible by 1 January 2021. So let's wait and see the Secretary of State's response before we get that clear. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. In the coalition agreement, the agreement was made to counter money flows from non-free countries. The parliamentary research into foreign influence has shown what bad effects you can have in Dutch society if this is not done properly. As we saw in the automatic anbistatus for North Korea, for example, this can happen in the tax field as well. That's why I have the following questions. What does the Cabinet do to prevent influence from non-free countries via anbis? Are gifts from non-free countries tax deductible when they go to an anbi, and what does the Secretary of State think of that? What right of influence exists here? And can the Secretary of State find out how to prevent influence on anbi's and how to prevent donations from non-free countries? My group would appreciate it if the Secretary of State would send a letter on this, so that it can be involved in the debate and discussion of the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee. These are important questions for my group. Finally, I would like to express my support for the smart fill-in screen for the income tax allowance, and let us also talk about the good things and the improvements in communication for people who want to waive a voluntary allowance in relation to the donation deduction. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the Tax Administration is still on course to have the smart fill-in screen operational as of 1 January? Mr. Chairman. My input today was largely focused on people who do not follow the rules. And that's exactly what I'm doing to prevent all the good guys from being dragged along with those who don't follow the rules. Because let there be no ambiguity about it: the VVD is proud of everyone who works for the Netherlands, and thus also for the anbi's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u21	Thank you. Then Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u22	Mr. Chairman. The Tax Collection Act contains many proposals that the SGP can support, but there is one issue that I still have some questions about. And that is what I specifically focus my contribution on, namely: the additional regulation for the anbi's. In fact, I always look at additional regulations for the public benefit institutions with some suspicion. These institutions are intended to serve the public good. They help poor people and people who are struggling, and they provide wonderful initiatives in our society. And regulation can just stand in the way of that. Hence my critical attitude towards additional regulation. But I do say 'positive critical' because I want to get a few things clearer and clearer today. Anbi's have recently already received the UBO register, and then this package of rules is added. And then there will be a Transparency Act for civil society organisations, which we still have in the air. The other side is: I do not want anbis to be able to go about their business without having to comply with rules at all. However, I would also like to call on the Secretary of State not only to take into account the control of the institutions and the tools that go with them for the Tax Administration, but also to ensure that the anbis themselves are adequately taken into account. Fortunately, I have just heard Mr Lodders of the VVD speak about this. Because what we think is important is that they should be able to carry on their valuable work and that they should be encouraged. And perhaps the Secretary of State can reassure me this afternoon and he intends to come up with some wonderful proposals for that. Of course, I'd love to hear that. Mr. Chairman. But that did not remove all my objections. In particular, I have a number of questions concerning the tightening up of the integrity test. I would like to address three specific points. The first is the reasonable time limit. If an inspector makes a request for a vog, the driver must deliver it within the time limit set by the inspector. This time limit is ten weeks according to the answer to our written questions. In doing so, it is rightly stated that a Vog application does not exceed eight weeks. This means that there are still two weeks left, but in those two weeks the driver must get the application from the inspector, make the application himself and also give the dog to the inspector. Our question is: isn't the deadline far too short? Especially given the possible consequences if you react too late, namely the withdrawal of anbistatus. Why wasn't it chosen, for example, for at least two times eight weeks, so 16 weeks? This is also linked to the legal deadline of eight weeks, so that the driver's response period and the response period of Justis, the vog provider, are taken into account. I would very much like to have a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. My next point concerns the words'reasoned doubt'. For that doubt can be stirred up by the FIOD, but also by a citizen, for example. That reasonable doubt is filled in on the basis of concrete case law, as I read in the explanatory statement. Nor will the inspector lightly proceed with the request for a vog. A lot of questions were asked about these two words in the written round. The Dutch Order of Tax Advisors also mentions this point. It does not appear from the legal text that the inspector must pass on the reasons for the reasonable doubt to the anbi. I ask three questions to the Secretary of State on this point. Does he agree with me that this gives a lot of space to the inspector? Does he agree with me that the inspector should at least mention the reasons for the reasonable doubt? How does the Secretary of State ensure that the Tax Administration does not deal lightly with these legal possibilities? Mr President, my final point. An inspector makes a request for a dog to a person. Thus, the rest of the board of an anbi may not know about the application, with all its consequences. The request is probably not made for nothing, because there is doubt about the integrity of a driver. Then it seems logical to me that the inspector not only informs the driver himself, but the entire board of the request. That is why I am asking whether the Secretary of State agrees with me that the entire board should be informed of the Vog request. Finally, Mr President. This Tax Collection Act contains a number of minor legislative adjustments, but small adjustments can also have very serious consequences. Specifically for the anbi's, the proposed changes could lead to more uncertainty. I therefore believe it is important that we ensure not only the position of the Tax Administration but also the position of the anbis themselves. I look forward to the answers to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u23	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Mulder from the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u24	Any tightening-up of money laundering and terrorist financing is a step in the right direction. In response to questions from the PVV, the State Secretary indicated that it is to be expected that the extension of the powers of the customs authorities will result in several million more euros being intercepted. We are not yet going to win the war against money laundering and terrorist financing, but it would certainly be good news. The PVV supports this. The PVV also wants to support the part about remote gaming, but it must be prevented from creating, or rather continues to develop, a tension between companies established abroad and legal casinos established in the Netherlands. Those foreign companies are already offering remote gambling, without a license. They're not being dealt with by the Gaming Authority. It turns out, because the offer on the Internet is huge. So there is, in fact, a tolerance situation. Because of this tolerance, these illegal foreign companies take a lead over the Dutch companies that do keep to the rules. They get a head start because, for example, they gain experience with the behaviour of Dutch players and they also get name recognition. Moreover, these foreign providers do not contribute in any way to Dutch society, not in the field of employment and not through tax payments, in any way. On the other hand, the Dutch providers provide employment and pay taxes. My question is, why do we all accept that? Why does the Secretary of State accept this situation? Why isn't the Secretary of State in favour of a level playing field? That is a concept that is often used within D66. Through this proposal, a provider who has always kept to the rules must immediately fight with his hands tied on the online casino market. Because, through you, Mr President, I ask the Secretary of State, is it true that the Gaming Authority deals smoothly with the granting of a licence, even if the company in question has in the past offered illegal remote gambling? Then you actually reward bad behavior, I say again through you, Mr President, to the Secretary of State. Then why is this proposed? Surely it would be fair to reward companies that have complied with the rules? Why don't we do that together? Because it now seems that this proposal will put Dutch suppliers behind us with 2-0 or 3-0. One. Because for years these providers were not allowed to offer remote games of chance. Two. Because they have paid taxes, even the ridiculous 1.1% increase of the last two years, which was paid by the Dutch legal providers, because the money did not come in. And c, third, because a former illegal provider can also easily obtain a licence. That is why my proposal is: let us do something good with each other today and make the situation somewhat less unfair. First of all, don't grant a licence that easily to proven wrong companies. I shall be tabling a motion for a resolution to that effect later. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u25	We're prepared for it. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group. He took a box.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u26	It's a trick box, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u27	He says it's a trick box.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u28	This is the government's tax trickbox. Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with a tax collecting law with a number of valuable elements which I shall be dealing with in the same detail as you know me. Legislation is our main task, our core task. We, as legislators, should spend a little more time on this and a little less time on urgent debates. The first part of that is going to come true today. That's why I signed up for a little more time. In fact, we have already referred to Mrs Lodders once not paying attention to legislation. This means that the Dutch Government, in fact, recognised the Government of North Korea or Sudan's army as an anbi, whereas the average football club in the Netherlands is never eligible for it. I do not have the idea that it is happening massively, I have to say, but gifts to those kinds of regimes were deductible for tax purposes. It is interesting whether, for example, this has happened to Eritrea's government, which is still taxing what it thinks its nationals are in that country. But, as I said, if you are a football club or a tennis club or a band or the fence, you will never be eligible. As a CDA, we have a different view on this. Fortunately, this law changes that. But the tax laws are about more. It's become one big box of instrumentalism. It's an infinite set of fiscal measures to raise money. We have now received 300 pages of chips to change individual instruments in the tax system. The employment discount is slightly increased. The IACK will be abolished or increased depending on what you like. We're doing something with box 2 and something with environmental taxes. I've got it all here. These are 300 pages, all of which are worked out in sub-reports, about which buttons you can play in the Dutch tax system. And buttons have this Secretary of State, enough buttons to make the whole tax system go to hell. But is that the fundamental question on the table? Does this raise the fundamental question of whether the tax system is fair? No, of course that question is never on the table here. Let me give you an example from the 2015 CPB note, which was requested by almost the entire Chamber. It's showing me something I might have to show you through a calculation. Of course, we'll get all the purchasing power cards again in the next week. I'll show you two. For example, it says that it is 4.8% better for a single earner with children. And here, for example, it says that a single parent who earns the minimum wage is improving 0.6%. That was in 2020, so last Princess Day. I've enlarged it a little bit. And then you think this is relevant. Everyone thinks that the purchasing power plates we see are relevant. But they're not that relevant and I'll show you what's not relevant. Every year we look only at whether this percentage is going up. But we never see if these people have enough of what they get. So I've taken these two groups. It's a long list of 15 people, but to keep you from freaking out, Mr President, I'm only going to deal with two. I'm gonna treat the sole earner with kids, and I'm gonna treat the single parent with a minimum wage. Let me start with the single parent with the minimum wage. This lady is a novice teacher who works at an elementary school three days a week. Then you earn about €21,800. That's the minimum wage. This single parent has one child. Then you're entitled to a supplement. Moreover, after receiving supplements and paying taxes and the care premium, this person does not have to pay any income tax, and this person, who has a rental house of €700 per month, has €30.904 per year. So you start with an income of €21,000. You work three days a week. That leaves you $30,000. This lady has a neighbor, too. That neighbor has a sick husband. This means that she is responsible for caring for a family with two children. If you work full-time as a starting teacher at an elementary school, you earn about modular, €36,500, and then you have €31,000 left. I'm gonna keep the amounts side by side. As you can see, there is therefore a difference of €15,000 and below the line less than €200 difference. We think that purchasing power is just the reality, but the reality is that we never see if there is any relationship between what you get and the acceptance. In this example you have a single earner who earns almost twice as much and who also has to feed twice as many mouths, and at the end of the day he has exactly the same as that single parent. The relevant question is: do we in the Netherlands still charge a bit for carrying capacity? And the answer to that is: we are not asking this question at all in The Hague. If you are interested in the difference: on this overview you can see that this is because the person pays more tax and care premium and receives less via rent allowance, child schemes and care allowance. You can see the difference completely on this. I'll show you on Twitter as well, so you can see these things for yourself. We have been calling for attention to this for years. For example, I am looking at the SGP, which calls for particular attention to the sole earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u29	We are having a debate here about the philanthropy, the Gift Law that the CDA wants so badly. Can Mr Omtzigt also make a picture of someone who earns a hundred and a half tonnes and locks away half of his income through an anbi, so that he does not pay taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u30	It's possible. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u31	No, but that's not what Mr. Ommzigt does here. Why doesn't he? He says we never talk about tax-sharing. Well, every year we talk about that. Every year we say that you increase the power inequality with something like a Gift Law. Each year we say that you must do something about taxes, which mainly hit the lowest incomes hardest and let the highest incomes get away the most. What did the CDA do? In recent years, that party has increased the tax on the lowest income and reduced the tax on the highest income. That's what they call "an honest flat tax." That's not fair. Then you'll need a whole Christmas tree to throw all kinds of arrangements at it, so that someone gets better. And then Mr Omtzigt says: I'll explain; no one's talking about this. I find that, apart from the fact that the bill is not about this at all, a strange way of teaching. Maybe it's also a way to cover up your own CDA input into that Christmas tree of instruments to pay as little tax as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u32	I'll be right back to the anbi part of the input. I don't have a problem with that. Any question about this is welcome. And yes, of course we have also co-founded some of these tax measures; do not worry about that. I'm not going to avoid that discussion. What I am saying here is that we have been discussing what we are doing here for at least five years now, and I will finish the story with, for example, the sole earner. We have a motion here asking for the WRR and the CPB to look into that, but we have never seen that report. We have here a building block note of a few thousand pages and there is one proposal that deals with this, one of the biggest problems in the tax system. Do you know what that proposal does? This calls for a tax reduction, such as the general tax reduction or the labour rebate, which is not only income-dependent, I have my doubts as to how well practicable this is, but also dependent on equivalence factors. That would mean that you have to look at how many people a household exists and then stick a sticker on it because of how much you can share it; then the tax reduction gets bigger or smaller. The Tax Administration is already underlining: that is almost impossible for us, because that means that the employer must know how many people are in that household and whether those other people have income, and that leads to large amounts of recovery. What major recovery means is that Mrs Leijten and I know from another file; you should not want that. So we thought that there would be some proposals to look more closely at the problem. Are we talking about carrying capacity or just the percentage? But they weren't in there. That is why the question to the government is whether it can come up with a proposal that really looks at carrying capacity. Is it prepared to set up a committee, for example from a number of professors together with a number of experts from the Tax Administration, because it must really be feasible to take a fundamental look at whether we are only working on incentives or looking at carrying capacity? Can that committee report to the House of Representatives by about mid-March, so that the report is before the formation, so that there are also options to put things right in this kind of situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u33	To conclude, Mrs Leijten; short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u34	It annoys me a little, you know. This coalition said: we're throwing up the VAT; we're bringing in extra money. At the same time, last year the Tax Plan also provided that the study costs of children are deductible from the allowance. Who can pay for their children's studies? The richest in this country. I was talking about what Anand Giridharadas said here last year. He said: you must beware of a plutocracy, in which it is the realms who can shape the laws so that the rich profit from it. In recent years, the Tax Plan has done so rather than become fairer. You can't say it's never been about that in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u35	Oh, but I didn't say it was never about that either. Moreover, Mrs Leijten knows as well as anyone who sits here that the percentage at which you are allowed to deduct donations for income tax for the highest income falls from 52% to 37%. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u36	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u37	... if you are wondering whether this is being pushed up or watered down, I can say that it will be watered down. If you ask whether taxes have been increased or reduced for those with low and middle incomes, I can say that by substantially increasing both the labour rebate and the general tax rebate, the effect on the net rate for low incomes is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u38	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u39	Mr President, this is exactly where...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u40	No, no, no, Mrs Leijten, I have already given you the floor three times, and then it will be a very long interruption. We are going to listen to the interruption of Mr Mulder from the PVV group, if he still wants to. Mr. Mulder, is there anything you'd like to say? Yeah? Then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u41	It is an original way to start your contribution, but it is also very brutal. I have had several debates with the CDA, with Mr Omtzigt, on the distribution of income and purchasing power. Every time, every time so far, Mr Omtzigt has been very neatly defending the percentages. I tried to prove that you have to look at purchasing power, because it matters how much someone has left, but then Mr Omtzigt said that it all went so well, because one got 1.3% and the other 2.1%. And now, after all these years, we get this story. I don't know what happened, a list-taker election or something, but this runs counter to all the contributions that Mr Omtzigt has made in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u42	I do not think Mr Mulder has listened very carefully to this contribution. You have seen that, just after this government took office, I advocated a higher child-related budget for couples. This has led to the 4.8 being on these sole earners. And I have argued for it, and I can show you the motion later that the WRR and the CPB would look at carrying capacity. I also argued in favour of this when we discussed the building blocks here, because some of the weight has disappeared from the system. I've been arguing for that all along. We do not have to listen to each other here, but if you blame me for not bringing this up earlier, then I can simply throw you ten debates. That's not so hard in itself. If we're all in agreement, I don't know. You don't have to do that today. That only makes it more fun for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u43	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u44	Mr. Chairman. So I would like to see either that chamber motion carried out by the WRR and the CPB to ask for advice or to have a decent presentation of the fiscal building blocks. Now that both are not on the agenda, I would ask a number of professors to look together with the Tax Administration at the capacity of our system and how we can keep a grip on it. We can, of course, join the cabinet formation, whoever is sitting there, the PVV can sit there, the SP can sit there at 150 buttons in the tax system, but then I know one thing: then it's going to hurt where no one meant it would hurt, because here, in all honesty, we have forgotten where exactly the buttons are to really change something and so we don't know where it hurts. Mr. Chairman. Then we can also look at other perverse effects. Mrs Leijten was right about that again. The effective top rate at the moment is not 49.5%, but it is for the incomes that are just below it. These are, moreover, quite high incomes at 55.5% as a result of the phasing-out of the tax rebates. So it is not at all the case in the Netherlands that the highest incomes pay the highest marginal rate. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the anbi's. It is good that the authorities outside the European Union are no longer an anbi's, but the fact that the Bulgarian or Maltese authorities are still a good cause under Dutch tax legislation is a good thing. Is there not something to be done about this, for example by simply depriving these authorities of their status if they do not publish an annual transparency form from the Dutch government? It seems relevant to me to deal with it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u45	I know Mr Omtzigt very precisely, but I think he just made a small mistake in his list. The Bulgarians and the Maltese get wiped out, but where are Mr Omtzigt's Hungarian party friends? Mr Orbán? Mr Omtzigt has forgotten Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u46	Totally fine. You can take Bulgaria, Malta and Hungary, as well as Poland. By the way, there is not so much a problem with corruption in Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u47	Moreover, before it comes to taking European countries out of the anbi, the cabinet says that it is legally impossible to do so, Mr Omtzigt and his party could start to bail Mr Orbán out of their European club.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u48	We happen to be the only European club that suspends parties when they fail to comply. I dare other clubs to do that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u49	That suspension is taking a long time. After a red card you also have to leave the field, but Mr Orbán can sit quietly on the spare seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u50	I believe that in the second term I will return to all the liberal friends who are living in the European family. It is quite clear that these foreign governments, not political parties but foreign governments, still maintain the anbistatus. At the time when transparency needs to be provided and these authorities do not fill out the form I can just imagine that they don't fill it out every year at the Dutch Tax Office. Do we have a way to deprive them of anbistatus? Or, for example, could we delete the fact that in the Netherlands we automatically grant all public authorities the anbistatus? As a government that wants to have the anbistatus in the Netherlands, which can apply for it and can also get it quite easily, I think all of that up to now, but at least let us not do so automatically, because then some other European countries will no longer have it automatically. I continue to find it a strange figure that these countries would have the anbistatus. If that is a problem, the Secretary of State could think of asking a number of ministers and secretaries of state from a number of friendly governments. Mr Van Weyenberg seems to be an expert in whom they should ask. But I could just imagine that they wouldn't all be able to consult with the things they've done themselves. So what do we do? Mr. Chairman. With Mrs Lodders, I am pleased if that fill-in screen will work properly. That will mean that the gift deduction will be easier. With the leaders and the integrity test, I still have the question: what kind of dog should you have? Of course, that depends very much on the work you do. Is that a vog that is given quite easily, or a vog that really counts where every minor offense from ten years ago still counts? I find that an interesting question in itself. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be on the gambling bill, 'cause it's in there, too. Mr Mulder has already referred to this. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that remote gambling providers who actively approach Dutch consumers, for example by applying iDEAL payments, are addressed? How will the Secretary of State then ensure that the profit-gatherer, the player, actually pay tax on the price that may have been won? Are agreements made with banks, for example? Otherwise, we won't get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u51	I have a question about the vog. I think Mr Omtzigt is right to ask the question: what kind of animal is needed? But if I understand the law amendment correctly, it is the vog that is looked back for up to four years. We also discussed this in detail during the previous debate: should the time limit for looking back be no longer? The Secretary of State now states: I agree with the conditions that the Vog lays down. What is Mr Omtzigt's opinion on the four-year review period? Is it enough, or should we look back longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u52	For example, I would like to know specifically what Mrs Lodder said if someone was a member of the Hofstad group and had been in prison for seven years. I'm thinking about someone now. He was convicted seven years ago and is now released. Does he get a vog two years later? This seems to me to be the case in the case of serious crimes, i.e. life-related crimes, terrorist financing, terrorism or money laundering, which may be a little longer. For relatively minor offences, I can imagine that four years is indeed more than enough. I don't need to know if you had a relatively small sentence ten years ago for anything. You don't have to disqualify that to be an anbi's driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u53	That's clear. I think we can add to Mr Omtzigt's examples also sex crimes. I believe they have been mentioned, but at least I have found that, while doing my homework, it is also being looked back on for a longer time. I think that is quite right. Perhaps it would be an idea for the Secretary of State to reflect again on that four-year period and whether it is sufficient in all cases. Once again, we have talked about this before. The Secretary of State has chosen not to change anything about that for this legal treatment, but I do find it interesting. As far as my group is concerned, it is still interesting. So if you'd like to pass on that question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u54	I'll do it with love. Perhaps Mrs Lodder would also have liked to ask a question about someone who has committed a sex crime and is in a political party, namely whether that political party will receive an anbi-status. That is a real case in the Netherlands at the moment. I ask the tax authorities to please do not assign the anbistatus to that political party. I see from a political party that is now being formed, quite a few leading figures who have a history of morality. If they are allowed to attach a good purpose status to that, then... In any case, I do not think that this party should get off the ground, but to consider it a good cause, I do not think it is the intention. Mr. Chairman. I was working on the gambling bill. Do I now understand from the note on the report on the Tax Collection Act that only the player and not the illegal remote gambling provider is liable to tax? Is this desirable? Asking the question is answering it. Can the government not also tackle the fight against illegal gambling providers by imposing a tax post-tax on illegal providers, preferably with a few more fines? If only the player is liable to tax, tax will be levied on any winnings. But especially in the case of illegal gambling, you know that the chance of losing is many times greater than the chance that you win something. I would ask the Secretary of State if all this lobbying of vulnerable players remains unburdened with these illegal providers. Why doesn't he see a way to discourage that more? The note following the report announced that an opinion of the Council of State on possible measures to combat money flows from non-free countries would be sent to the Chamber in the summer. The piece escaped me for a moment, so when can we expect that piece? This is very important to us, because the good cause sector must also remain for good, with good intentions. There are foreign actors from non-free countries, I do not say. That is part of the coalition agreement that must be implemented after three years, even though this Secretary of State is a little shorter. Mr. Chairman. Another technical question about donation deductions. In the written report, the CDA Group drew attention to the curious condition in the periodic allowance that there should be a greater than 1% chance of the donor dying and that the periodic donation should therefore stop. This is not in the interests of charities and it has never been a political wish. It has led the Tax Administration to recover the donation deduction from couples who have supported a good cause in two lifetimes because there is too little chance that they will both die within that time. So that's why the question is: can the Secretary of State resolve this with a decision? In a decision of 31 December 2014, for example, the Secretary of State has already arranged for donors to be allowed to decide by bequest that the heirs should continue the donation. Can the Secretary of State make a similar arrangement for partners who together donate to charity? It was never intended, I think, to block this anywhere. Finally, Mr President. I'm going to do that with my colleague Van Weyenberg. We had a very interesting discussion yesterday about the Ter Haar report. Or the day before yesterday it was, no, yesterday. It helps us very much as a House of Representatives to have some experts look at how on the one hand you don't hit the real economy where it shouldn't be touched, and on the other hand some holes close in the Vpb. There are some additional questions about this, especially about AWR 67, namely the confidentiality, and for example the fact that 38% of companies in the Netherlands experienced net tax losses over the period 2010 to 2018. This does not seem to be entirely in line with economic reality. But with Ter Haar, we make steps. My question to the Secretary of State would be: would he consider setting up a similar committee to deal with the flow from the Netherlands? This Secretary of State has already taken measures to this end, but we would like to have a number of experts look at the flow to ensure that the flow that has nothing to do with economic activities is stopped, stopped, and that the flow that does have to do with economic activity is not affected by it. This is also the treasury function of a large company that pools it all here; that has nothing to do with economic activity. Because I think we should also take a careful look at how we can reduce the flow as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u55	Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u56	That was my contribution, but I see some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u57	Yeah, there are. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u58	Yes, with the risk that Mr Omtzigt is about to claim that it is never about it in the Chamber. If it is about those substance requirements, then several proposals have been made in several laws, which were actually about that. The CDA has never really supported proposals from me to actually investigate them and come up with substance requirements, i.e. to come up with demands for real activity, to ensure that the entire infrastructure of the letterbox companies can finally be dismantled. Even when we asked for research, he didn't. I just want that marked, because Mr Omtzigt started with: some things are discussed here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u59	Okay, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u60	It is good that the proposal is being made, but it is a pity that it could not be supported earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u61	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u62	Mr. Chairman, for a moment. I have also made a number of proposals myself to do something about this. This is, for example, the fact that intermediaries are no longer authorised to set these things up. That motion was not then carried out either. But I'm just making a constructive proposal here that can be picked up fine by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u63	Thank you. Mrs Lodders, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u64	Let me turn to Mr Omtzigt's constructive proposal. Letterbox companies and whether or not they have economic activities, I hear him say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u66	I assume that the Secretary of State may be sympathetic to this information, but I would also like to stress the following. There are also sometimes "I'm not gonna take the term "I'm not gonna take the word "I'm gonna do business" activities that eventually lead to economic activities. How are we going to ensure that there is also attention to that? Something that starts with nothing can eventually lead to economic activity. And the moment you block it when something starts with nothing, it can never grow into anything. I sometimes call it something that starts in a shed but eventually has led to employment for 1,000 men/women.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u67	That discussion is justified, but that discussion is mainly at headquarters. It starts very small sometimes. The example of Nike, which is also physically present in the Netherlands, is entirely justified. There's every reason to think of that as a company and not as a mailbox. However, I cannot imagine any activity... I'm not interested in passing a few thousand euros through a bank account. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about a flow of hundreds of millions. And I can't think of a lot of activities that companies start without employing people here, when they have hundreds of millions flowing through. I don't see that happening. But I'd like to put that question with the experts, because if it does, I wouldn't want to touch that activity. But if there is a year in, a year out of just flow and no real economic activity, then we will have to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u68	I'm not talking about the latter, and that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u69	No, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u70	Fortunately, we have taken a number of measures against this during this period, but I think even in the previous period. I'm just saying that we shouldn't want to hit something that starts with nothing. If Mr Omtzig passes that on behalf of Mr Van Weyenberg to the Secretary of State, that is very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u71	It is right for Mrs Lodders to say that, because we mean'real economic activity' also as a potential real economic activity. You can indeed set up a company and not make any profits in the first year and maybe not even have a customer. We're not gonna hit that here. Whether it's azzp'er or a big company, we don't want them out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u72	Thank you. Don't forget your box. In fact, this is the debate in which a great many questions are put to the Secretary of State from the microphone. That's a whole new figure. I don't know if that's specific to the Finance Committee, but I think it's very funny. It'll be a little thing from your committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u73	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u74	Good morning. How do you do? I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group. He's the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the point where the previous input ended. We had a very interesting round table on Monday with a number of members and the chairman of the Ter Haar Committee, as it is called in the jargon, who looked at the tax payments made by multinationals. What I found so interesting about that was that that committee was widely composed of people who are often very different in that subject. That committee has made some sort of united package. I regret to say that this consensus was under pressure again yesterday, but I shall leave that for now. That package contains very concrete proposals in a kind of basic variant with possible variants if you would like to go further. It also describes a way in which you could put that back when you attach importance to it. I thought there was a lot of balance in it. The great gain of the report was that it didn't just linger in some kind of ideological struggle, but that a lot of facts were first put on the table on the basis of which conclusions were drawn. It also often turned out that we just don't know some things yet. For example, we still cannot see what the effective tax burden of multinationals is because in the Netherlands the commercial profits are not in the statistics. What I liked about that process, Mr Omtzigt said that just now, too, is that with a wide-ranging committee, which first of all gets a lot of facts on the table, you can really move on to such a subject. Yesterday, both Mr Omtzig and myself came up with the image that this tastes like more, a sort of committee called Ter Haar II, without wanting to anticipate who is chairing it, although I would be fine with that and I also got the impression that the chairman was quite keen on it. But it would be good to see the same way, just open, with different people, so also people from the world of mailboxes, how about the flow. What are the numbers? Where does throughflow lead to nothing? Are there any cases in which the flow of seed plants for future real economic growth, on which Mrs Lodder has just rightly asked a question? I sometimes want all this together, without talking about any policy instrument immediately. As a coalition, we have arranged a number of matters in the coalition agreement for the cabinet. I know that Mrs Leijten often makes proposals; sometimes I support them, sometimes I do not. But I found the working methods of this committee refreshing, because it gives the impression that it might be possible to break the deadlocks once in a while. I am also very much looking forward to the Tax Plan and the follow-up of the Ter Haar Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u76	Shall we go to today's topic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u77	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. You are right, but the reason why I am so free to say it now is that if you want to do something with it in the formation, the committee must start quickly. That is why I am not waiting for the Tax Plan to be dealt with, because then we will be more than a month away, but I, like Mr Omtzig, will make that point here as well. Mr President, then to the law; you are absolutely right. First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we are discussing a tax law separately, bearing in mind Mr Nijboer's motion, which unfortunately is not here at the moment, which has said: let us treat some more widely distributed laws in fiscal terms and not put everything in the Tax Plan. This is just a small, relatively clear law, which I admit immediately, but it is a first start. Mrs Leijten asks outside the microphone how many we get next week. I do not know, because I have not yet seen that piece, like you, I say to Mrs Leijten. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate you on the extremely clear answer to the many, often very technical questions that have been asked on often very technical subjects. We had asked a lot of questions, for example about supervision, about how you decide when you want to withdraw the anbistatus. I found the extremely enlightening but also understandable written answers. That can be said here once too. Mr. Chairman. My group can support the portee of this law with the points of improvement that we have already dealt with in the Chamber, namely how we deal with anbi's (general purpose institutions). But on two points, I have real questions. The first is about the fact that you also have modern philanthropy. You can see in practice that there is often an innovative attempt to raise funds, for example for cultural expressions. Crowdfunding is only one of them. Just now, in the corona crisis, in which the cultural sector is incredibly hard, I am always looking for more to do here. Are there any bottlenecks, for example for people who want to provide additional support for the cultural sector? We had asked whether the fiscal framework for donations was actually set on the new generation of philanthropies and more modern forms of philanthropy. The answer was: yes, we have spoken to a number of people and they have not actually seen any bottlenecks. Well, I've been around some people who think differently, so I'd like to challenge the Secretary of State to elaborate on that. Is it really future-proof? Should this not be discussed with the sector in greater depth? Because it would be great news, but it wasn't the image I had when I asked the question. I'd like a response to that. The second question concerns the rules that are being tightened up. My group will support the tightening-up of this, once again. But if you tighten rules, how do you make it workable for little anbis? I have previously tabled a motion together with Mr Omtzigt on support for small anbi's, because much is coming towards them in terms of reporting and so on. I understand that if you call the Tax Phone, you'll be connected immediately to an expert at the IRS. I'd like that. That's what we asked for. There is also much more explanation on the website. We're making it all tighter and tighter now. I understand the excesses we want to tackle: whether they are forms where money laundering is concerned, what Mrs Leijten was talking about, or unwanted financing. I have a big question: how do we make sure this doesn't grind the little anbi? I would like to challenge the Secretary of State to go into that again. Mrs Lodder's amendment on reporting obligations tries to set a threshold in the desire to tighten something up at the same time. For me, the answer is very relevant to what I have to think about. Once again, I really understand that you want to avoid excesses and abuse, but it has to remain manageable for small anbis. Finally, my third question, Mr President. I recently saw a news report from an anbi who... I see Mrs. Lodders and I'm going to another point, so maybe I should wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u78	I have a question for Mr Van Weyenberg about where his doubts lie. At first we had that debate in mid-2018 and you supported the motion to make standard forms mandatory, but now I see that there is some doubt there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u79	Well, no, I didn't put it right, but there's another discussion about how high that threshold is. With your amendment, you have tried to do justice to the concern that you and I both have, namely that it remains manageable. Only the question is, how exactly is that threshold? You yourself referred to the reply of the Secretary of State with Mrs Leijten or Mr Van Otterloo in an interrupting debate. I am very curious about that, not because I do not support the principle, but because I do not yet have a good feeling about where that threshold would lie. That was my question. Thank you for the opportunity to say that more precisely now. Mr. Chairman. Still, about risk-oriented supervision. I've asked a lot of questions about that. We have had a lot of answers about that, but I am left with the general question: does the Secretary of State think there is enough capacity for that monitoring? Mrs Leijten also asked that question, although in her question it was a bit hidden that she felt that the answer was "no'. I am actually asking the question a little more openly, but I do have the same question: is there enough supervision? Mr. Chairman. I read in the paper the proposal of an anbi who had a billion in wealth that wasn't needed for work. That anbi is nice to me, but a billion is quite something. My question is: what about the retention of power? I can understand why you need resilience reserves. This was about a church community. I understand you're in need of reserves. I get that. They employ buildings and people, but where is the limit at a capital structure that fits in with the fiscal framework? I find that a difficult question. I also continue to look for the common good, but that is a more fundamental debate. I'd like to close with that, too. When it comes to this law, I ask the more philosophical question: what is that? Because for one may have an association life on Sundays may also be of general use. I continue to think that this is, in principle, a complicated dividing line. Finally, Mr President. Mr Omtzigt was just standing here with a very large pile. I would like to say one more thing about that. I'm very happy with that big pile. Not only because you have to draw up clear political guidelines as well, but also because, in my opinion, the cabinet has done exactly what we in the Chamber asked, namely: give us a lot of material to take the tax system on the shovel, to make it fairer and to make it greener. I am still very happy about that, even if only because box 2 showed that I myself added this to the questions about the building blocks that were suddenly found in e.g. EUR 200 billion by the Tax Administration. That's the only thing that makes that thick pile of paper worthwhile for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u80	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. The Secretary of State has requested a 20-minute reflection period. A lot of questions have been asked, so I understand. They were complicated questions, too. That's actually why I want to take dinner break right now. Then when you get back at 6:10 p.m. and we'll have the belly round, we'll listen to the Secretary of State. Shall we do it like this? I'm gonna suspend until 6:10 p.m. before dinner break and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u81	The floor is for the Secretary of State, who is going to make his contribution sitting down. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u82	Mr President, I would like to repeat it once again for the few viewers who may be there: it is not a lack of respect for the Chamber, but I have a back problem, which makes it difficult for me to stand longer. That's why I'd rather do this sitting down. Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by thanking Members for their input. I can say it was a very rich input. If you bring a bill called Fiscal Collection Act to the Chamber, you expect a wide range of questions, but I hadn't quite prepared myself that broad. So thank you also for the time I have been given to prepare myself for the answer. The wish of the Chamber, of both chambers, by the way, is to spread tax legislation more widely over the year. I'm fine with that. I'm trying to realize that, too. It was thus also possible to submit this Tax Collection Act 2021 on 20 April this year. An extensive written round took place before the summer recess. I very much appreciate the fact that the Finance Committee wanted to take this up so quickly, so that we can move quickly to action. Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd answer with four cubes. One is not a block, but a block about everything that's about anbi's and gift deductions. I would like to say a few words about care in relation to Mr Van Otterloo's question. I am going to say something about the gambling tax in response to Mr Mulder and Mr Omtzigt's question. As a blow to the head, I will end with Mr Omtzigt's broader story and later also Mr Van Weyenberg, which I refer to as'macro' in economics, but with which I am actually trying to say: broader than the Tax Collection Act as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u83	The latter goes a little beyond tonight's subject. I mean, we shouldn't be discussing some kind of broad tax plan and tax and society today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u84	I promise you I'm going to give you incredibly short answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u85	Mr Omtzigt agrees with me. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u86	Shall I start with the gift deduction and the anbi's? Those are actually the two big things. I would also like to thank Members for their input on this issue. The core of the donation deduction and the anbi scheme is clear. It's clear what we're trying to do there. We're in a meeting with the sector. We have tried to continue the practice of those anbis. A large majority of the House also says that this is really important. At the same time, we want to avoid fraud and errors. The core of the cabinet response to the evaluations was therefore rather the willingness to look together with the sector to see whether donation deductions and the anbi/sbbi scheme could be made less complex and more feasible. That's what the Chamber's been talking about. That led to four motions. Following these four motions, a working group of officials from my department was formed with representatives of the Co-operative Branch Organisation Philanthropy. A total of 16 improvement options have been discussed and accepted. In the end, three legislative measures will follow. I will come to all the questions that have been asked about this and to the improvements that can be made to it, but first let me say what we are proposing. We propose that the deduction of cash gifts be abolished, that the automatic allocation of an anbi status be restricted to public bodies, and that the integrity test be extended. The limitation of automatic allocation is a consequence of the motion by Mr Lodders and Mr Omtzigt. That was already discussed in the debate. This motion is carried out by limiting the automatic allocation of anbistatus to the State, provinces, municipalities and water authorities and similar bodies governed by public law in the Netherlands and in another EU Member State or in another EEA State or in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. This does not mean that public institutions from outside this circle may not be an anbi anymore, but they must apply for the status. They're not legal. The third proposal implements the Lodders/Omtzigt motion asking for an examination and a proposal, so that organisations which, in their objectives, statements and actions, clearly do not comply with the Constitution, the ECHR and international law have no right to anbistatus. Mrs Lodders repeated this briefly and forcefully. The Tax Administration can intervene and has so far also intervened if an anbi does not act according to public utility. This practice will continue. This motion by Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt was carried out by proposing an extension of the integrity test for anbis. I will come back to all the things that have been asked and said about it in detail in a moment. Then I would like to highlight two concrete improvement options that we have done, which are not related to legislation, but to practice. This is about the smart fill-in screen, which has been mentioned a few times, and the service to small anbis. Mrs Lodders asked me if we are on track on these practical things. The answer to that is yes. We think we realized that January 1st. That was her question, if I remember correctly. That as a general introduction to the anbi's and the gift deduction. Then I've come to ask a whole series of questions. Let me get the most important one right away. The most important was Mrs Lodders' amendment, which has now been co-signed by Mr Omtzigt, on the obligation of the standard form. You can see that's also good that the Chamber there shows a palette of views. One part of the palette just walked in, namely the part of the Chamber that says "every anbi should always do that," and the other part says: we have to be careful about bureaucracy, because there are also very small anbi's, like the petting zoo, and you don't want to saddle them with bureaucracy and fill out a form. I think that Mrs Lodder's motion is something that I would like to give a hint of the veil as to what I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u87	Don't you mean an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u88	Yes, an amendment. Sorry, an amendment. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was too excited. I would like to make Mrs Lodder's amendment Chamber, but there is still the point that we need to set that limit under ministerial regulation. I do not believe that I am capable of doing so tonight, nor do I believe that this would be prudent to say how high that limit should be. I can mention a few things that play a role in this. The size of an anbi plays a role, but that's obvious, because that's across the border. But also the different types of anbis play a role. If you would allow me to do so, I would like to look later on at ministerial level for a good balance between the two extremes I mentioned, namely the extreme 'as little bureaucracy as possible' and, on the other hand, 'as good as possible control'. Where exactly that balance lies, I'm not going to try to determine it now. That would also be a bit much to ask right now. But I can do that by ministerial arrangement. That is why I would like to give the House's amendment by Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt's opinion. Later I will come back to how I fill in the ministerial arrangement in terms of ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u89	That is the amendment to item No. 11, let me tell you before the historiography.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u90	I have a quick question. Can the Secretary of State confirm that he intends to do so before the end of the year, so that compulsory use starts from 1 January 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u91	The answer is yes. If that answer were different, I will return to it in the second term. This is my firm intention. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u92	I always get a little creepy when something in a ministerial arrangement can be eliminated without us seeing it anymore. Now I do not want to make an amendment to an amendment with all kinds of fronts, backs and all that. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to inform us if he knows the details, but also on what basis these choices are made: is that based on research or logical arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u93	I'd be happy to tell you. I was just trying to say that, but I did it too fast. I was murmuring something in a subtlety. I'll come back to you. Also in the spectrum of the small institutions was Mr Stoffer's intervention, who said that we should be careful not to restrict anbis so much that they can no longer do their blessing work. Again and again: that is exactly why I want to think very carefully about that border. I think that border is important. Then I guess I've had that part. Then I'm going to the government bodies from outside the EU. Mrs Lodders asked: what exactly happens; what procedure is that when a government from outside the EU applies for anbistatus? It is quite simple: government bodies from outside the EU no longer have the anbi status. It will expire on 1-1-2021. There is therefore no transitional right et cetera. Of course, after 1-1-2021 such an institution can still apply again to become an anbi. Those applications will then be assessed by the Tax Administration on the basis of the existing criteria. This means that a body which is contrary to the general interest will not be given an anbistatus. Mrs Lodder asked: is that serious too? Yes, that's serious; otherwise, of course, I wouldn't put it that way. That should be the procedure. In the same light, Mr Omtzigt came up with a very difficult question, as usual. Mr Omtzigt always knows how to ask the most difficult questions. This is a very difficult one. He asked: how do you actually deal with countries within that circle in which you automatically assign them the anbistatus? Then there was a small debate about the countries that could then be involved, and you still doubt whether they deserve that anbistatus, just to put it homely, so whether they meet the criteria. I have to say quite frankly: the first answers I received from my officials when I asked this question myself were: "That is not possible. You can't make that distinction; you just can't." But I agree with Mr Omtzigt that I do not think that is desirable. I do not think that is a desirable answer, because there may really be a government to which you do not want to assign anbistatus. The question is how often this occurs. You're wondering, what exactly are we talking about? But there are governments that are conceivable, even within these circles, which you think: I do not really want to assign anbistatus to them. I would therefore like to say to Mr Omtzig that I am going to come up with a more detailed analysis on this point. I just need help with that. I need to talk to a lot better lawyers than I do to understand what I could do here. I think Mr Omtzigt sees the limits here, but I understand the wish. So I've come up with a separate analysis of that. Mrs Lodder asked: what is a citizen supposed to do when he sees that an anbi or an associated person does not comply with the rule of law? Mrs. Lodders, that citizen must or may report it to the IRS. The Tax Administration has set up a special hotline for this, and will then act. Mrs Lodders and Mr Stoffer also asked: "In the tightening up of the integrity test, the Secretary of State expects a very small increase in the number of requested vogs. Why is that? Shouldn't that be demonstrated by practice?" In rereading the answer we gave, I felt that we might have given an answer a little too soon. I believe that what you say is absolutely right: this must be demonstrated by practice. I'm not so sure. I actually don't know what it's based on that we think it's not that bad either. It probably comes from a belief that most anbis are good. I believe that too, but it is wise to look at that again and not just assume that there will be very few. Then there was another difficult question. It was about reasonable doubt. That question came from Mr Van Otterloo, Mrs Lodders and Mr Stoffer. They actually asked: when is there reasonable doubt? Reasoned doubt presupposes that the request for a bird cannot be lightly made. Several people need to look at this and there must be a basis for it, a signal that leads to reasonable doubt and the administration of the reason for the inspector's request. So we need to keep a good record of why that is. Frameworks could be developed on the basis of that case-law. In order to develop a further process of checks-and-balances on those signals, the number of cases in which the inspector requests submission of a vog will be recorded. I thought that's what they were asking for. Now there is an amendment by Mr Stoffer to that point which I must advise against, but with a more detailed explanation. Mr Stoffer's amendment proposes to oblige the inspector... I am talking about the amendment to item No. 10, if I read this handwriting correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u94	It is the amendment in part No. 9 or in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u95	That in part No. I think 10 has migrated to piece No. 12. The description is: if the inspector requests to submit a vog, the inspector is obliged to justify his reasonable doubt as to the integrity of the anbi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u96	That is the amendment to item No. 10, says Mr Stoffer himself, and he has the last word. It's 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u97	10 is 10. This amendment therefore proposes that the inspector should always support the reasonable doubt. Why I cannot give Chamber judgment on this or say that it is good to do so is because the reasonable doubt of the inspector can arise from signals from citizens, but also from the AIVD or the NCTV. It is therefore not always possible for the inspector to motivate the doubt to the public. There's also a confidentiality obligation now. It was recorded in the AWR. It may be that we receive information from third parties on which there is a purpose bond and secrecy. Finally, motivating the reasonable doubt about the vog applicant could lead to fewer signals, but I do not think that is such a great argument. What could be done before any further questions come up is the following. All information, such as signals on the basis of which the inspector concludes that there is reasonable doubt about integrity, is shared internally and returns to the detailed framework. If there is no obstacle or objection, the reasonable doubt can be substantiated towards the Vog applicant. In other words, a specific explanation of your amendment is: where it is possible, it happens. That's what I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u98	I like the sound of it. If it is confidential, secret information, for example from the AIVD and such, then it doesn't happen. In other cases it is therefore shared at all times. So if it can be public and public, is it shared?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u99	Yeah, I think I just said it a little bit more claused, but I actually agree with the way you interpret it now. I agree with your reasoning that it should be public in principle, but if there are certain reasons why it cannot be public, and then it is not public. That would be it as far as I'm concerned. So it's not gonna be public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u100	This sounds good. If we record this in the Minutes, I will withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u101	By "if it is recorded," you simply mean that what the Secretary of State has just said is well reflected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u102	I actually understood the amendment very well, also in the light of the premium affair, where, of course, we were dealing with people who were accused of things they could never defend themselves against. That's how I read the amendment. Because there was also discussion about which vogs you have, for financial services and for the children's sector, for example, I have just started to look at the website of the government. There you can do the vog check. You're gonna get through that real fast. Basically, you always get through the vog check when you don't have a criminal record. But what if there's a signal to the tax inspector from the NCTV or the AIVD that we're dealing with terrorist financing or sexual suspicions, but they've never been convicted? So the questioning of a vog really doesn't make any sense. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u103	That is a good question from Mrs Leijten. Just give me a second chance to get back to this, because I need to have a quick look at what is going on in that case. I'd say you'd want a vog anyway, but you've just done the vog check and that speaks to the vog. So let me talk about it, because Mrs Leijten is right that in that case, of course, you want to be able to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u104	Yeah, that's exactly my question. We have always thought that if everyone is in possession of a vog, which is an optimal condition not to be in the sight of a serious suspicion. But of course you can. When I was a healthcare professional, I've seen it so many times: someone suspected of committing a sex crime leaves somewhere, doesn't get a record, isn't convicted, and can just work with a vog somewhere else. That doesn't work. This bill actually says, if you have a vog, you've closed the hole. I don't think the hole is completely sealed. I think it would be very good if the Secretary of State could come back to that in the second term. I hope that at least something will happen by means of a search, but at the same time you can do something to put on hold such an anbi for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u105	I'll get back to you. Thank you. Mr Stoffer had another question. He has put the matter down in the other amendment, the amendment to item No. 12. That, I believe, is the amendment that migrated from No. 9 to No. 12. It concerns the reasonable period of time for the consultation of a vog. He asked: do you agree that the ten-week deadline is far too short? Yes. I would like to follow Mr Stoffer's amendment on this point, i.e. extending the deadline to 16 weeks. I would therefore like to give a ruling to the Chamber. Mr Stoffer also asked: do you agree with me that the entire board of an anbi should be informed by an inspector about a request for a vog? The answer to that is no. The fact that I don't understand the reasoning doesn't come to an end, but it goes against privacy laws and regulations, because the reasonable doubt is not yet a definite fact. This means that a person can be touched by the reasonable doubt, that the doubt does not appear to be correct but that all his or her colleagues have been informed. I think that's undesirable. At this point, I would like to say that you do not want that. If that vog is applied for and leads to action, the rest of the board will hear it. But I do not think it is desirable to inform the rest of the board of the reasonable doubt. Or have I perhaps misunderstood Mr Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u106	I think the Secretary of State and I understand each other very well. I think we can see that we are facing something difficult here. Let me set the example. Suppose you have a board with a chairman, a treasurer and a secretary. That treasurer is suspected of something. There's a request for a dog like that. He doesn't let us know anything else, while he's actually done things that the rest of the board says we'll suspend him right away. But, yes, the anbistatus has already been revoked. I want to avoid that one person has apparently done something that cannot be accepted, that the board had no opportunity to intervene and that then the anbistatus is withdrawn. I'd like to avoid that. My question to the Secretary of State is: how do we prevent that? That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u107	Yes. I will also take this question with me to the second term. I'd like to think about that, because he's complicated. You are in the middle of two fires: on the one hand you want the anbi to function and on the other hand you don't want someone to be falsely accused and already suspended before it becomes clear that he has actually done something. I think that's where the tension is. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u108	I'm anxiously waiting for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u109	Yes. I think Mr Omtzig asked how long the look-back time is for a dog and whether it is different per crime. The answer is yes. The regular review period for the judicial past, the criminal record, is four years. In some cases longer time limits apply. Think of sex crimes, serious crimes of violence and terrorist offences. This could be the answer to the vog-wijzer, which Mrs Leijten was talking about. It was about the simple things, to put it mildly. There is another vog pointer for the more complicated issues. But now I'm ahead of the second term. But there is indeed a differentiated time limit for looking back on the gravity of the matter. There was a series of questions about the influence of non-free countries, I believe, by Mrs Lodders. I think it is best that I write a separate letter on this subject. Actually, we're talking about two things. I was thinking about that myself this afternoon. You're talking about gifts to non-free countries, but you also have them, and that's what you saw in the discussion about gifts from non-free countries. So I would like to make a separate letter about that, so that I do not commit or say things here. Mr Omtzigt asked when the opinion of the Council of State on the possible measures to combat money flows from non-free countries would come. The response of the Council of State is expected to come this autumn, as I have been told. It's not my file, but I checked. This comes at the same time as the cabinet response to the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry POCOB. Then I'm almost at the end of the anbi's and gift deduction. I come to Mrs Leijten's request. I owe Mrs Leijten a letter on money laundering and tax fraud through the allowance. You'll receive that letter from me. Something has indeed gone wrong during the review period, which led to that request reaching me a little later, but I am going to send you that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u110	I actually hinted at that in my first term: that can happen, it was on the last day before the recess. And it's not like there haven't been any other important things this summer when it comes to tax matters and the Tax Administration. But I do have a question, and it may also matter to a motion. Because I actually asked Minister Dekker for Legal Protection: don't look away from that part of tax fraud, tax avoidance, tax evasion, but also money laundering via the anbi's; look at that in all your idealism about philanthropy that I have a different opinion about, at least investigate. And that would at least be my appeal today: look at how you can investigate it; not to bring it into a black light, but to prevent us from saying 'o, but this was not the intention'. And if the Secretary of State is in favour of that now, then it might as well be a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u111	Yes. Shall I just come back to that in that letter, on how we can do that? 'Cause you're asking for an investigation, but I'm having a little trouble figuring out how to design this research in a way that'll also help if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u112	Yes, of course, that's always the question in an investigation. Where we see that there is actively advertised by the accountancy and consultancy sector, which also says to cultural institutions and you name it: put something on it, you can indicate it and then you can subtract it. Then that's exactly the point. Look, if it's the playground around the corner or perhaps Mr Stoffer's church society, then we're all looking at that differently, and we're looking at the sports club. But putting things in place specifically to generate tax deductions, I don't think we ever meant that. I do not want to say that this is, by definition, money laundering, but it is a form of tax avoidance. Well, how nice it would be if we could get a map of that. And given the ads and the earning model of the accountancy and consultancy world, I suspect there's something behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u113	I will return to that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u114	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u115	My block's almost finished. Shall I finish the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u116	Finish the cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u117	Are there enough people? That is a question that I recognize well, because it comes back to every debate: will the Tax Administration carry out the supervisory tasks properly? I think this has something to do with the extent to which we are closing the gate at the front. There are things that are connected, and that's the form we've been talking about before and all the things we do. I am assured by the Tax Administration that they have enough people to monitor these proposals. But you know that I keep the Tax Administration under the magnifying glass every day, so maybe I can promise here that I'll just keep an eye on the Tax Administration on the point "do we have enough capacity for this?', and will ask for it on a regular basis. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about modern philanthropy and crowdfunding. Yeah, we're working on that. To be quite specific: I have discussions about this with OCW's colleague, because it plays in the cultural sector, for example. That's what we're trying to make progress with. I do not know if Mr Van Weyenberg has a question on this, but otherwise I will go on to his other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u118	That is good to hear, because I had read the note on the report as follows: we do not really encounter bottlenecks. But I now understand the Secretary of State in such a way that there is indeed a search for whether there are and that there is a discussion about how to resolve it. Then I wonder when this will lead to something of an outcome and how we can follow it as a Chamber. I am pleased that this is a more proactive answer than I had taken out of the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u119	That's also because those conversations have taken place quite recently. To be specific, I can give an example to those who are not involved in these talks. Suppose you have a crowdfunding platform and that crowdfunding platform does a lot of things at once, for example helping certain cultural goals but also providing income support to people at the same time. So there are two types of targets in the same crowdfunding platform. I am now trying to find a solution for this with the Minister of OCW, so that it is a real anbi and not fake income support, just to put it homely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u120	I would like to come back to the capacity of the Tax Office. Because what exactly is the degree of control of an anbi? Does it always get a physical check in the first year, for example? Or always in sophomore year? Is there always a look at all the anbi's to see if they have submitted a financial annual report? Or is there another kind of control in it? In other words, how often are you controlled as an anbi?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u121	Mrs Leijten will forgive me if I do not know the answer to that question now and I will return to that in the second term. I understand the question. The question is, what do you think is enough? That's the question. And do you think it's enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u122	Exactly, because if the Secretary of State says that for him that will remain a permanent conversation with the Tax Office... We also know that the moment you ask an organization if she can do her job, there is soon a "yes, we can" mentality. But when research is done, it turns out that an anbi can be checked once every 100 years, for example. Then I think we'd like to make other considerations here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u123	I'm gonna see if I can figure that out for the second term, or else I'm gonna have to report on that. To put it in management language: which KPI, which result commitment depends on it? I understand. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the anti-oppotism, as it is called. In other words, an anbi doesn't allow you to collect endless wealth. We're talking to the sector about that. I thought he was trying to say that he thought there should be a limit to that. Yeah, you should, but it's not that easy to set that line. He himself said this in his introduction, in which he also said something about the resilience of the organization et cetera. Of course, it depends very much on what kind of anbi it is and where it is. But that's what we're talking to the sector about. That brings me to my final question, concerning the reduction of donations to anbi's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u124	Mr Van Weyenberg on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u125	Yes, both at this point and at the point of modern philanthropy, I am still looking a bit for when we as a Chamber hear about it, because I think it is two important points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u126	There are a number of commitments about letters. Shall I try to find a letter that fits this? Then I will let Mr Van Weyenberg know in the coming months, towards 1 January 2021. I think that's a good time. Mr Omtzig asked a question about the allowance and the uncertainty requirement. He gave the so-called two-life example. That's really complicated stuff. I've been looking into this myself for the past few days. A gift can only qualify as a periodic gift if the legal requirement is met. The uncertainty requirement is a legal requirement. Mr Omtzig asked: can you not just take a policy decision on this, because that is undesirable? That's kind of creepy to me. I actually intend to look at it more accurately and carefully and then come up with a separate answer to Mr Omtzit on what we can do about it. So I'm buying some time, because this is complicated to fix. There's something in that periodic gift anyway and in that one-time gift that gives rise to complexity, I'm just saying domestic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u127	We had also put this question in writing in the written contribution. What is the problem of using not 1% but 0.5%? Why would you even want to keep that uncertainty requirement in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u128	That uncertainty requirement is a kind of proxy to ensure that people do not mask a one-off gift as a periodic gift, because the periodic gift regime is more favourable. That's why it's a proxy. Your question is: is this the right proxy? I am afraid to answer that now, because I do not know what to do. You say, can't you change that? But where am I supposed to change it? I can make it wider, but is that fair in the light of the fact that the periodic grants deduction is wider than the one-off grants deduction? I hope I make myself clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u129	That periodic allowance is indeed a lot wider, because you have no threshold and no maximum. So you have a number of advantages. But it's about a five-year period. If you're young enough, you're lucky you're both going to die, less than 1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u130	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u131	It was just meant for that opportunity to be in. Then I think you can just say this, just like the other example I mentioned in my text: if it is only 1% for one person, then that's fine. The recovery was very intense. It has a rather considerable fiscal consequence, which people simply didn't foresee. So isn't this just a policy decision to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u132	Perhaps Mr Omtzigt and I will then agree if I say so: the outcome of the letter could also be that I take a policy decision on this point and do not need a legislative amendment. That may be so, but just give me a chance to weigh up what wisdom is here. That would be my question to Mr Omtzigt. Then the patronage compliment... Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I have to keep my head down. I've sealed off the block of anbi's and gifts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u133	I'll keep the order for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u135	That's included in the amount. So this was block one. Mrs. Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u136	I had saved my question until the end of the block. In the first period, I had asked a question about a person or an organisation which is clearly linked to an organisation which does not comply with the Constitution or which affects the legal order. What's the procedure if something like that happens? Then I hear the Secretary of State say, "If people think or have seen that, they have to report to the IRS. But I find that rather complicated. I would therefore like a more detailed answer from the Secretary of State. Does he really mean that people will have to call an inspector on their own? Let me give you a concrete example. An organization calls for a break-in at stables. In my view, the legal order is then really being violated. Does such a person have to go to the Tax Office himself or can it in some way be part of the course of justice? The latter seems to me at least interesting, and that first will have to be communicated better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u137	Mrs. Lodders is right. I replied: the first. In the second period, I will come back to the question of whether there are any other options, but I have some difficulty in thinking about how to do that. Look, someone's noticing that, and there's a hotline at the IRS. How would Mrs Lodders like to organise it differently? That's just what I'm struggling with, unless I don't get her right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u138	I do not have at my disposal a few dozen or perhaps more officials who can certainly have very sensible ideas about this, not only with the Tax Office but perhaps even with the Justice Department. Perhaps I think too simple, but you could also make it part of the course of justice: if an organisation or members of it are convicted, then it will also be examined whether the parent organisation or the organisation itself has an anbistatus. That would be a very easy solution, I think. But if it stays to the first because it becomes legally difficult otherwise, I would appreciate it if something more is communicated that they can take that step, especially if this kind of activity takes place and people are afraid, insecure and crying for help. A second question, Mr President. It's about the four-year term, the period to look back. Why does the Secretary of State hold on to the term of the Vog? I do know that the Secretary of State may not be able to undertake it tonight or to take steps in it, but wouldn't it be interesting to do an investigation or see if that four-year period should be a little longer? I was right to have an interrupting debate with Mr Omtzigt on this point. When we talk about morals, there has been a longer period of time, but shouldn't extra steps be taken there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u139	On the first question, my answer would be to return to that in the second term. On the second, I seem to have been unclear. No, there are differentiated deadlines. They do not just cover sexual offences; there may also be terrorist cases or violent crimes involving differentiated deadlines in a vog.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u140	That is correct; I also indicated this in an interruption debate with Mr Omtzigt. Those were three categories. But I believe that Mr Omtzigt has also passed through the case of a possible political party that could include sex crimes. That, too, requires a bit more focus in the answer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u141	I will come back to that in the second term. I thought I'd been sharp and clear, but I'll do my best. But maybe we'll talk past each other. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u142	The Party for Martial Love, Freedom & Diversity may be seen as a continuation of the Martijn Association and has also previously acted politically for, among other things, the complete equality of children and adults for having sex and for fully legalizing paedophilia. A number of people in that association have also been convicted of this. I can assume, with this bill in hand, that this party will never qualify for an anbistatus, with which it would be a charity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u143	Just thinking logically, I say: there is a need for a dog and there are differentiated deadlines for that dog; there are sex crimes and there is a longer look back. The answer would therefore be: then an anbistatus is not possible. That seems to me to be the logical answer to your case. I'd like to check it again between the first and the second term, but this seems to me to be the logical answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u144	I'd love to. We need to talk about the desirability of this another time, but I would like to have a definitive answer to this. After all, that would be extremely undesirable. You forgot one other little thing in the answer. Maybe that's for the second term. The question was whether the voluntary contributions paid by the Eritrean community to the Eritrean government were actually deductible by the anbi regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u145	The officials are listening, I hope. The answer comes in second term. I don't know by heart. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the patronage compliment. I've been digging into that for the past week. I did not know at all what that was; that they forgive me, I hope. I didn't know we still had a hook in the law that's been taken out now. But I do understand Mr Van Otterloo's question. The answer is actually quite brief: well, it just can't be; there are alternatives, but none of them can. I'm gonna take another look at that. The family care compliment as it existed no longer exists in the Wmo; again, I have studied it. In doing so, this hook in the law has become superfluous. But that does not mean that in itself it could not be conceivable that you would facilitate something fiscally in inheritance taxes when people have performed household care and have therefore done good work. The definition here is, of course, rather disastrous; that was already the case with the household care compliment. But I'm going to look at that anyway, because it's just a sympathetic and beautiful thought to do something for this. But I don't know if it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u146	Thank you for this commitment. We like to hear as Chamber which roads have been investigated and which have not turned out to be there. I'd like to give you a few suggestions. It was hung up on the family care compliment, but there are, of course, more registrations of family care activities, whether they are people who act as caretakers for someone or people who are direct first contact. It's about those kind of groups. And that's not about millionaires. That's often about people who don't have that much money at all. Then the difference between a free foot of €2,200 or a free foot of €21,000 is a big difference for those people. We would like it to be rewarded in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u147	We're gonna look into that and I'll report to the Chamber in writing. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the gambling tax. At that time, we moved very much towards the area of the Minister for Legal Protection, but I am going to try to provide your Chamber with an answer. If level-playingfield arguments are used, Mr Mulder was right about that, then I will of course wake up right away, so I took a good look at that. The Gaming Authority has the task of enforcing the Gaming Act and acts against illegal remote gambling in the Netherlands. Illegal providers that specifically target the Dutch market or allow minors to play are addressed. That was his point, I think I said: this is unfair, because these illegal providers have a kind of competitive origin, because they can already gain experience on the market, while the market only opens up legally when the new law comes into force; that is unfair. There is one argument against this, namely that existing foreign distance gambling providers will only be eligible for a licence if they have not specifically targeted the Dutch consumer in the two years and eight months preceding the application for authorisation. So that's the protection. I also have my questions as to whether it is hard enough and sharp enough, but this is what we have. This is a way to keep the level playingfield argument up to date. Mr Omtzigt asked: how does the Secretary of State ensure that the profit-gatherer, the player, actually pays tax on the price that may have been won? Are there any agreements with the banks on this? In the case of remote gaming, the rewarding gaming tax is payable on temporarily without a licence, but that is not the player, I say for all clarity. The harvester is the one who previously enjoyed the proceeds of offering the game of chance on the basis of a permit. Therefore, the Reciprocating Provider remains temporarily liable for tax, which means, if the licence is suspended, that, under the current Law KSB, the creditor becomes liable to tax at the price of the Game of Chance. So it's the provider who's gonna be the thriver. Finally, both Mr Omtzigt and Mr Mulder asked: is it desirable that the illegal providers of remote gambling should not be subject to tax, but rather to the players? Actually, that's what we were talking about. Can the government tackle the fight against illegal gambling providers in a fiscal way? I must say that I agree with Mr Omtzigt that it is desirable to make illegal remote gambling providers subject to tax. But we just have a problem there, which is that we can do it very hard. We have very few leads to impose taxes on those providers of foreign illegal gambling. The criminal treatment of foreign providers is limited, so the charge will only take place with Dutch players. That's what we're doing now. Is that a desirable situation? No, but that's the harsh reality. This was the heading "game tax." That brings me to the heading for which your chairman warned me and which he said I should not go to an extended college. This is due to the input of Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. Perhaps I should try to shorten it to two concrete proposals which I think were just in the contributions of Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. Mr Omtzigt asked early, after his speech on purchasing power and capacity: would the Secretary of State be prepared to create order? I use his image only a little bit of the chaos of all these possibilities, all those buttons, which have provided the building blocks, the promising tax policy and so on, and would he like to do so on the basis of a committee which is looking again at the principle of carrying out the tax system? The answer to that is: yes, I'm willing to do that. I am committed to saying two things. Of course, the tax system is not just about carrying capacity. It is also about incentives: incentives to work, incentives to do good, letting go of the bad, etc. That is exactly the tension Mr Omtzigt described. The second point is that I have had a rather solid debate with the First Chamber, in which was asked by the First Chamber: can you not ask a state committee or another committee to draft a new tax system? I said that at the time in the First Chamber: there is no point in asking experts, because this is a political question; this is not an expert question. Can I interpret Mr Omtzigt's first proposal in such a way that he asks me to have a committee of experts look at the concept of'support' in the system? I'll send you a note about how I'm gonna fill that out. He also specifically mentioned people from the IRS. I just need to see how it's filled out. If I may interpret it as broader than'support', because there are considerations to be made in that system, and if I am not allowed to instruct that committee to design a new tax system for the Netherlands again, I do not think that is a task of experts; that is a task of politicians I would like to send such a note to the Chamber with an idea for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u148	I would indeed very much like to see such a letter in the short term, because I would like it to be possible to achieve something by mid-March. This is a question of where imbalances can be in terms of capacity. It's politically assessed. I just gave you one example. I think only earners really pay too much. But how much it is, of course, that is a political weighting. The point is that there are options for it and that it is also carefully considered in which group the tax rate is going to be very high for certain incomes and that there are solutions in how to make it more balanced. If that's how I understand it, I'd love to see that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u149	I'm gonna try and write it down nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u150	Fine. Mr Van Weyenberg briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u151	I think it would be a good idea if these experts were to be shown where it is possible to weigh up with other important objectives, such as promoting participation and emancipation. Because that is always a consideration for us, politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u152	Was that your contribution, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u153	No, no, no, no. I have a second commission to go, and I have one single question. The second committee, which Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt asked for, was equally domestically formulated, the Committee-Ter Haar II on flow-through companies, flow-through companies. I think there was an enriching debate on what we mean by that and what we do not mean by that, I say to Mrs Lodders. I understand the point. I myself am quite excited about what kind of work the first Ter Haar committee has produced and how useful that was in practice, apart from the fact that it was Bernard ter Haar, but that aside. I am therefore also prepared to set up that committee. I shall do so in the short term, otherwise there will be no point, with a view to formation. I'll send another note to the Chamber about that. And, as with the first committee, I will look for a balanced composition of that committee. That would be the thought of that idea. I am almost at the end of my first term, but I still have to answer a question from Mrs Leijten which I could not place anywhere in a box. I've now placed it separately in the cash box. Mrs Leijten asks what is the logic behind the differences in the border for cash payments of €3,000 and the border of €10,000 in transport. There are no fixed thresholds in the fight against money laundering. There are two different issues at stake here. The limit of €10,000 for the transport of money is based on the limit of the liquid funds regulation since 2007. The limit of €3,000 is one payment transaction. The transport of large sums of money is independent of payment transactions. To put it short: you compare, I think, two things you can't completely compare, because the one is a one-off transaction, which you can do several times, and the other is about transporting money. That's the short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u154	Yeah, that sounds simple to me. A child can do the laundry, I always say. That was the first term. Is there a need for a second term for members? I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the commitment to further examine how we can still keep the household compliment alive. A second point that I would like to make and which I also asked Mrs Lodder: there are, of course, small anbi-stichtings that receive only a few thousand euros a year in donations, or once a legacy and so on. For that, the administrative burden is rather heavy, so I am very curious to see what is going to come out of the ministerial regime, to put it off against my experience with a number of foundations and associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u156	Very good. Mrs. Leijten of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u157	Mr. Chairman. We just learned a lesson about the tax system. Of course, that's always interesting. That's what we do every year with the tax plan. The big problem then is that we get such a stack of laws that we can hardly really figure out. A major problem is also that at the time when you then have the fundamental debate about, for example, one and two earners and you make motions from the opposition, there are 75 members in favour and the coalition keeps its hands down, and that therefore continues to exist. So, yeah, to say "the room never talks about it," I don't really like it. It is nice that we can talk here about the Tax Collection Act without having to deal with that very big pile. I still do not like the fact that we are lagging behind when it comes to the information that the government already has. We do, for example, get all kinds of pieces under embargo. By the way, they have been leaked today, so that can't be up to the Chamber, because we haven't even got them under embargo yet. But, for example, we never get the taxes under embargo. I find that strange, because sometimes there are just laws in there that do not need to be covered by the embargo. They can now be sent in a manner of speaking. Anyway, that's what we're dealing with. In every debate I try to talk about the risk and injustice of income inequality and property inequality. For example, we have purchasing power images in which the difference between tenants and homeowners is not visible. We have also seen today how much the tenants have been hit with the increase in rents. Yeah, well, that's different with people who spend some time in a buy house and have the comfortable mortgage interest deduction. You see, Mr President, when others take the opportunity to talk about all kinds of things in the tax system, so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u158	Then you won't be left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u159	But I know you very well; I'm going back to the bill. I think we all want you, at the moment you're working with anbis, to arrange it as well as possible at the front, so that you need as little control as possible at the back. Now we say: at the front we take care of that with the vog. Well, I don't think that's a panacea when it comes to people we've got in the bunny, who never had a conviction. We also know that not everyone gets a conviction for all violations. The Secretary of State will come back to that. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. They can't surprise you. Maybe after the second term they turn out to be redundant; then I'll move them in. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that combating money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance is not part of the government's policy on philanthropy;]] [[noting that hundreds of millions in tax are not collected annually through donations to anbis;]] [[considers that there should be an understanding of the extent to which irregularities occur in the implementation of such a system;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the extent of money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance via anbis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[having also noted that the integrity of these anbi's is controlled by only 42 staff members in the Tax Administration, while it regularly appears that anbi's lend themselves to money laundering;]] [[calls on the Government to shape the supervision of anbi's in such a way as to ensure that there is a reasonable possibility of control and permanent supervision of financial data of anbi's, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35437-13]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Lodders, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35437-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u160	Thank you. I call Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. A number of questions will come back. I'll say a few more things about that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. The procedure for automatic granting of an anbi-status to public institutions and bodies governed by public law outside Europe is under way. This is done before 1 January 2021 and that is very nice. In the reply, the Secretary of State then went a step further in response to Mr Omtzigt's request to look also at countries within Europe and whether it should take place automatically. I think that's an interesting step. I've asked before to make a list of unfree countries. The former Secretary of State indicated that this was very complicated, but now that the Secretary of State is making this movement, he would like to make another request today to see if he could say something about it in the letter he promised. Mr. Chairman. In the letter the Secretary of State has promised, he addresses the questions I have asked about influence from non-free countries. I would like to hear when this letter comes and call for it to be in the Chamber before the Chamber debate on the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee Unwanted influence from non-free countries. Mr. Chairman. A letter was promised before 1 January 2021 setting out and explaining the ministerial arrangements in response to the amendment I tabled together with Mr Omtzigt under number 11. Of course, my group is looking forward to that. We have given input from different sides here how that should take shape. Once again, as far as I am concerned, the motion adopted earlier is still part of it. Mr. Chairman. In the second term, the Secretary of State will return to the four-year period, which means that four years will be looked back, with the exception of three specific categories of offences, may I summarize them as "heavy offences"? Where the time limit is already a little longer. But I will continue to wrestle with this a little bit, so I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to clarify it in the second term. The law is amended and it is added that the vog can be requested in case of reasonable doubt. But what happens with all these requests for an anbi where perhaps there is no reasonable doubt or where that vog is not requested? And how are we going to make sure that the integrity test might be more explicit? That is why my question is why this linking of that vog is being maintained. That brings me to the concern on which Mrs Leijten has tabled a motion. I'd like to await the Secretary of State's response to that. That's about too little control of the anbi's. I had just checked: there are 40 inspectors on 43.000 foundations. Mrs Leijten mentioned 42, but it is just very little. I'm curious to hear the answer. Then I have a question about the procedure. If an anbi or a person clearly linked to an organisation that does not comply with the Constitution or the rule of law is affected, then it should be an automatism that the anbi status is removed. To report that to the IRS, I find it very simple. Perhaps we should consider whether this should be part of the course of justice, but then we still have the point that Mrs Leijten also raises, namely that not everyone is being prosecuted. So then there must also be clarity about where and how people can report that to the tax authorities inspector. I believe that the necessary communication about this can still take place. Mr President, you will understand that I will advise my group to agree to this law, because I think that we are taking some good, important steps. Here and there may need some tightening up, but we will come back to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u162	Thank you. Then Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u163	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes we can change things completely in this Chamber and sometimes we have to be satisfied with a very small step. Tonight's such a day. I have a motion to ensure that the companies that have complied with the rules do not lag behind too much. It is also a little out of power, because I agree with the Secretary of State that the Internet is very difficult to control, but we have to do what we can. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Gaming Authority wishes to handle smoothly the assessment of the licence application in the event that a remote gambling provider has been illegally active on the Dutch market in the past;]] [[whereas a flexible handling of the licence application for previously illegal providers is undesirable and this puts the Dutch gambling providers at a disadvantage;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the priority for granting licences for remote gaming by the Gaming Authority lies with Dutch legal licence holders;]] [[calls on the Government to contribute to ensuring that, as from the introduction of the Tax Collection Act 2021, all gambling providers operating in the Netherlands are subject to the Gambling Act, whether licensed or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35437-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u164	Glass of wine? Mr President, that sounds like a very nice offer. It is not that I have never spoken to Mrs Leijten outside the cameras for the past two years, but this is a public debate, and I also understand that you are conducting certain debates in public rather than in the Members' Restaurant. But if you offer us another glass of wine at the Members' Restaurant, we will accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u165	Does Mrs Leijten already want to ask her question, or can Mr Omtzigt say something first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u166	Okay, here's the thing. Mr Omtzigt has just maintained increased purchasing power figures. At the same time, the news came out that the purchasing power figures had been leaked. I hope he's been so careful showing the old one and not the new one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u167	Okay. That's more of a point of order. But this is now going to invite Mr Omtzig to go back to teaching for fifteen minutes. I would also say: do well in the Members' Restaurant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u168	I regret to admit that I have not even seen the purchasing power figures myself, not even behind the scenes. So I'm really just doing this, stupid as I am, calculating myself. So if there are mistakes in this, then I can give you the underlying calculations, because I've really tried to calculate the surcharges and the tax rates. And yes, I had to explain to my children at home that I like that hobby and that there are other things to do on Sunday. You're coughing. Yeah, you're gonna do a corona test, too, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u169	Let's get to the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u170	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add this to the Acts, because that makes what I have done here a little clearer, since we no longer take pictures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u171	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u172	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his clear answer. We're a little laughing about it, but I think it's good to deal with specific legislation here one by one. There's a lot wrong with the anbis. Mrs Leijten had a number of additional points here today, which are also relevant, such as: how much is being laundered? But a number of things are also being solved. We will have a pre-filled declaration, which we have wanted for a long time, so that the subtraction goes automatically through the pre-filled declaration. And it won't be perfect, but the people who have done serious things can't be leaders in a charity anymore. We will also ensure that North Korea will no longer have the status of charity in the Netherlands, even if it has some symbolic value. I admit it. I have a few outstanding questions. Are those payments to Eritrea deductible? And you understand the follow-up question: are the payments to the United States, which do the same, also deductible? That's not an irrelevant question. Does a Party for Marital Love, Freedom and Diversity get an anbi status or are we sure we're not gonna give it to this club? I look forward to the letter on the countries within Europe and on the non-free countries. I understand that it takes a while; that is also a bit less in a hurry. Thank you for the amendment. I share Mrs Leijten's concerns about the anbi-control team in Den Bosch, where there are indeed about 40 people working. Is that enough to check? It is not intended, but a lot of foundations use the anbistatus as a kind of stamp "approved by the government." That's how it's used in public perception; as a kind of label. Since there is little control, there is a tension field between one and the other. We've got to figure out a way to get that out of the way. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for setting up a committee of inquiry on balanced capacities. I would really only like to look at that subject and then, of course, those other incentives will be added. But are there places in the system where there really is a deviation from lifting to carrying capacity, for example where the partner cannot work? We know these examples. I hope that this committee will come to us for some examples and that it will be able to report by March. It is also important to look at the measures that can be taken in the case of transit companies without damaging any form of real economic activity, because we want to maintain this balance in the Netherlands. And, of course, my group will simply vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u173	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answer and the very constructive way in which wishes from this Chamber are handled, whether they belong to the coalition or the opposition. I always like that. That's how we move things forward. I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. I also think that both of the amendments which have been withdrawn by Mr Stoffer on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development are positive. It is always a little unsatisfactory to vote in favour of an amendment with an open border at what point are we putting it? But I have enough faith that this really isn't about the little ones. That is why I shall vote in favour. I welcome the commitment that we will receive information on two points in this calendar year, for example on how much power you are allowed to keep. I mentioned the example of 1 billion assets. What do you think of that? I think so. The same goes for the other point. The Secretary of State will return to that before 1 January. I'll wait and see. I have to do one thing for you, because you'll only work at a petting zoo and follow this debate. I don't think many of those people are following this debate, but still. It's all pretty complicated. You want to do this right. When you listen to this, you actually hear nothing but trouble and torment. You hear words like "maintaining," "control," "stronger," "vog's" and "abuse." The Martijn and Eritrea Association are coming over. It talks about a number of people supporting the North Korean government with gifts. I don't know if there was one person in the Netherlands who did this. I think it's a good thing we're dealing with this. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I think it's a good thing we're making sure the system's resilient. And I think it's good that we're also doing some tightening up, but please don't forget that the over-over-over-over-most of those anbi's often revolve around volunteers or people who are passionately employed there for the purpose of doing the right thing. We often talk about most people sticking to the rules and sticking to the rules, whether it's about bonuses or benefits. Let us not lose that confidence in one great swamp of distrust and forms. I'd still like to do that little heart cry. I am still anxiously waiting for the answer on the capacity for proper control, because, of course, that is what needs to be done. This may also prevent accidents on the part of parties who may unintentionally fail to comply with the rules. I welcome the committee that the Secretary of State will set up in the short term to look at the flow in line with the Ter Haar Committee. (NL) Mr President, for the record, these are not deferred or on-the-long-job-slide committees. These are committees which can come up with very concrete proposals and which can really give us new information, such as the Ter Haar Committee. This cabinet is already working on tax avoidance, but this will give us even more tools to go through with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u175	At 7:30 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u176	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u177	Mr. Chairman. I understand I have to be quick. I would like to thank the Chamber for its contribution to the second term. It was as rich as it was in the first term. I'm just gonna get the big things out. There was one big thing: is the system of integrity through the vog sufficient or not? That came back to Mrs Leijten, which came back to Mrs Lodders, which actually came back to all the contributions. It was also in Mr Omtzigt's hypothetical example. That was not entirely hypothetical, by the way, because it was about a particular organization with sex crimes and so on. Once again, the answer is that an anbi should serve a general purpose-oriented practice. This shall be verified when applying for an anbistatus. If an organisation wishes or has an anbistatus and a criminal offence has been convicted, the current integrity test in Article 5b may apply. This means that on that basis the anbistatus can be withdrawn or not granted. So next to the vog there is the safety valve of a conviction, for example because of a sex crime. I think that's the example that went around here the most. On that basis, an anbistatus cannot be granted or withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u178	I have a very specific question. I hear a "can." It's a can-determine. I'd actually like this to be just an automatism in a conviction. So if there's a conviction, the anbistatus should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u179	Yes. I understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u180	I would add a second part of the question. The Secretary of State may also clarify this in writing. How do these procedures work? Is it an automatism that when the conviction is made, whether the organisation has an anbistatus or whether the person concerned is very clearly associated with the organisation with an anbistatus and, if so, that a red flag is then sent to the inspector of the Tax Office? I want to know if that's a fact. I don't have much use for a can-determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u181	No, I understand the question. My officials are now telling me that the answer is yes and that it is an automatic one. I think that is the answer to your question. That is the first question on the issues involved. The second question is that I am only going to get them mixed up for a moment, because it was what was a great deal of money, whether the non-voluntary contributions to Eritrea are tax-deductible. If the generosity aspect is missing, and that is the case, then it is not tax deductible. That is the answer to Mr Omtzigt's question. Mr Stoffer asked me a question on which I stayed for a while, because it became complicated. Here's what he said. Suppose there is a board with three members and one of them is asked for a vog, while the rest of them don't know anything. In that case, is the anbi simply confronted with the withdrawal of status? If no vog is issued, the inspector shall inform the institution of the intention to withdraw the anbistatus, with the reason that the driver cannot consult. The institution will then have time to give that driver a different function and to say goodbye to those, in order to avoid the withdrawal of the status. When it comes to the tension we were just in, where Mr Stoffer was the first to make the proposal to say it right, I note that this has a disadvantage. I think the tension is solved this way when it comes to an innocent driver. Mrs Lodder asked if there could be a list of non-free countries. I understand that the Council of State is looking at this in response to the committee's report. That is where the answer will come in. I cannot say yes or no, but there will be an answer to the question of whether there can be a list of non-free countries. Mrs. Lodders asked if you really need to call the IRS yourself if you run into something like that. The answer is: yes, that is at least one method. That hotline is easy to find and low-threshold. Mrs Lodders is right: the Tax Administration can also act on its own. But it is, of course, very complicated for the Tax Administration to go through all the criminal proceedings with the 42 people we were just talking about and see if that can have an effect on anbistatus. This is in line with your previous question: if someone is convicted, is there some sort of automaticity in that? The answer to that was yes, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u182	My question here was whether the Tax Administration could then simply communicate a little more in general, or perhaps put such a procedure on the website: "What do you do when you see that an organisation or a person associated with an organisation does not comply with the Constitution or commit other offences? What steps can you take to make this known to the tax inspector?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u183	Yes. I can give the answer to that directly; that answer is yes. I'd be happy to arrange for the IRS to do that. Then I'll get to the motions. There is also one subject I should say a little bit more about. That's the control, the surveillance. The motion in part No. Mrs Leijten's 13 report deals with the investigation into the extent of money laundering and tax avoidance via anbi's. I actually thought I had already promised that I would come back to that in that note. I would like to ask Mrs Leijten whether she would like to hold the motion and see if the proposal I put in that note is sufficient for her to withdraw this motion. That would be my question to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u184	The motion in part No. 13 shall be repealed. Sorry. Busted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u185	Sustained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u186	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion for a resolution (35437, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u187	The motion in part No. 14 is about control. That's a serious matter. I just had a little talk about that. The audit of the publication obligation concerns 4,000 anbi's a year. This means that in practice about 10% of anbis are monitored per year. That's a lot. That's high, average. Besides, it's risk-oriented. In ancient times, when I was a civil servant that was a long time ago, you could tell your minister that a motion was actually support of government policy. I can't give that judgment anymore. I would therefore advise against this motion, but not because I disagree with this motion by Mr Leijten, Mr Lodders and Mr Omtzigt. I think we're complying with this motion, and that's how I advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u188	Well, as I just listened to the Secretary of State, 10% is checked to see if the figures are filed. Of course, that doesn't mean anything about a substantive check and test. The Secretary of State could see it the other way around. He could also embrace this motion and say: I will return to it; I will put it on paper again and I will hold it against the light. So I really mean the motion: as a support in the back to really see if we're there right now. We have also seen that the introduction of the Gift Act has doubled the number of anbi's. It may be that you just don't have a concubine or that you say, "Maybe..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u189	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u190	With this explanation by Mrs Leijten I can give the motion of Leijten, Lodders and Omtzigt judgment Chamber, because then we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u191	Look, that's how we do it, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u192	That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u193	I hope all the MPs have been watching. Before you begin the third motion... Oh, one more thing about the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u194	Yes. I heard the Secretary of State say that at least Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt, I understood, are under this motion. My name may indeed be underneath; let me speak only for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u195	Excuse me. That's what I've been told.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u196	I only see Mrs Leijten standing, but we add Lodders and Omtzigt. From Otterloo, too? Everyone's gonna join us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u197	I can show you the evidence. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u198	Okay. The chairman is neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u199	The chairman is neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u200	There is something else that needs to be changed about the motion in part No. 15 by Mr Mulder. It's just an editorial thing, you know. In the last line it says "the Gambling Act," but Mr. Mulder has Googled for a while and it must be "the Gaming Tax Act." So that's what we're changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u201	The Edgar Mulder motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Gaming Authority wishes to handle smoothly the assessment of the licence application in the event that a remote gambling provider has been illegally active on the Dutch market in the past;]] [[whereas a flexible handling of the licence application for previously illegal providers is undesirable and this puts the Dutch gambling providers at a disadvantage;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the priority for granting licences for remote gaming by the Gaming Authority lies with Dutch legal licence holders;]] [[Calls on the Government to contribute to ensuring that, as from the introduction of the Tax Collection Act 2021, all gambling providers operating in the Netherlands are subject to the Gaming Tax Act, whether licensed or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 15 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u202	I advise against this motion. I have been in touch with my colleague from JenV and he assures me that what is in the operative part here, namely that people would be deliberately put behind and that they would be handled smoothly, is not the case. He has asked me to strongly discourage this motion. That is what I am doing here, but it is mostly not on my territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u203	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u204	I thought I'd had the second term with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u205	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u206	I assume that on Tuesday after Princess Day we will vote on the law, the amendments and the motions. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his presence this evening. Thank you to the participants. I'm gonna suspend for a moment and then we're gonna look at two little VSOs in the area of living.
