ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the General European Reviews. Once again, I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about matters decided in Brussels, and Brussels has traditionally been a dangerous place. It often ends badly with Dutch politicians going to Brussels to negotiate there. Now that the subject of patriotic history has virtually disappeared from Dutch education, it might be useful to recall the risks that houses in Brussels face. In 1568, the graves of Egmond and of Hoorn on the Grand Place in Brussels were decapitated because they had dared to protest against an excessive influence of European policy on the situation in that country. This execution led the then governor of Holland, Zeeland and Utrecht, Mr Willem van Oranje, to break with the central authority. He saw that it was impossible to improve the opaque process of decision-making in Brussels, which he had tried for years. That's why he chose autonomy, sovereignty. That was a courageous decision, which, after 80 years of war, made our country a free country, a sovereign country. This first postit from history proved to be a great success. This nextit brought the Netherlands centuries of prosperity: first a Golden Age, rightly called so, which lasted until the disaster year 1672, when the neighbors invaded our country. Then we knew another century of prosperity, which came to an abrupt end when the French invaded our country for the second time. Mr. Chairman. Sovereignty, next, is proven good for the Netherlands. But over the past decades, we've been turning in more and more sovereignty. Sneaky. Fifteen years ago, the people were allowed to vote once in a referendum. The people said no, but the transfer of sovereignty continued. The Netherlands is becoming less and less a country with its own government, a country with its own laws. In short, it is becoming less and less a sovereign nation with a rule of law based on its own constitution. That turned out once again this week, when Ursula von der Leyen and Frans Timmermans took us, the Netherlands, to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u4	I am listening with attention to Mr Frentrop's historical reflection. Everyone may have their own history interpretation, but I ask him this. He mentions two situations in which the Netherlands was occupied: first by the Spanish and then by the French. I think that the parallel with Brussels which he mentions, we have a European Union of Member States that have agreed to cooperate under the terms of the treaty, even though it is not possible to do so. Can Mr Frentrop see that guaranteeing the sovereignty of the Member States by treaty is a gain compared to the historical situation he is describing, rather than a loss?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u5	I have to ask for a more detailed explanation of the question. To guarantee the sovereignty treaty by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u6	Yes, unlike history before the World War, the European Union and cooperation in the European Coal and Steel Community and then in the European Union, there was no constitutional system in which the countries respected each other in sovereignty. That's what it turned out to be. There is now. In this sense, the demand for this national sovereignty cannot be separated from the common shared sovereignty, and the European citizen is also a citizen of the European Union. So you're making a historically complicated comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u7	Now I understand your point. Yes, that is also an interpretation of history: you can say that as the Netherlands, we can be very happy to assume within the European Union that none of our neighbours will invade us, as has happened in the past. However, I think that is something theoretical and legal. It is not a substantial change in the situation after the Second World War. I believe that, as far as our national security and sovereignty is concerned, NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, is a more important pillar of our security than all the treaties we have within the framework of the European Union. But that is a different interpretation of history than your interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u8	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u9	Finally. It is perhaps a different interpretation of history; you can argue about it. But you're putting it all the way into the military now. One could also argue that this was the original idea of the European Union and of the European Coal and Steel Community: as you strengthen the economic interdependence of important goods, the desire to fight each other is also less. Could you still reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u10	It's a broad subject. We are, of course, here for the General European Reviews. I will come back to that in the course of my speech, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u11	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u12	I said that we were again brought to justice by the European Commission this week. The Commission wants our pension funds to be free to cross the border. She's filed charges for that before. I gave that as an illustration of the loss of sovereignty. Mr. Chairman. Anno 2020 has the political summit of the Netherlands less guts than the graves of Egmont and Horne and their friend Willem van Oranje more than four centuries ago, much less. In September of this year, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank even declared: "It takes courage to surrender autonomy." That statement must be contradicted. It doesn't take courage to give up autonomy. It takes courage to defend that autonomy, as William of Orange did. That courage is lacking in this cabinet. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank came to his absurd conclusion because he also recognised that the single currency, the euro, is not sustainable in its present form. What to do now? Experts see two different directions of solution. One camp, which I will refer to as the Knot Camp, sees as a solution more European integration, even more autonomy. The other camp, which I will refer to as the De Vries camp, to the former CDA Minister for Social Affairs Bert de Vries, wants to go in the opposite direction and says: the euro is not sustainable and so you have to get rid of it. That's all the flavors there seem to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u13	I heard Mr Frentrop say during the General Political Reviews that Klaas Knot now had the view that the euro was untenable. I thought, "Did I hear that right?" I looked that up for you. It's about the HJ Schoo reading. You are the second large group in this House and you are chairman of the Finance Committee. So you're not just anyone. In that speech, Mr Knot said: "We pay a price for European integration and risk sharing. This price consists of growing economic inequality between the euro area countries, increased debt in the crisis, increased emergency support and lower prosperity. Then the euro will not be sustainable and that price will, I fear, be paid again by ordinary people in globalisation." The rest of his schoo lecture is a plea for the maintenance of the euro and for the measures that are politically necessary to do so. Does Mr Frentrop agree with me that he quotes Mr Knot very succinctly and yet not quite right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u14	It's concise, but it's just in the spirit. I agree with you that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank says that more is needed to maintain the euro. That means if you don't, you won't. He even indicates two directions for resolution. In this speech, I have kept it brief. One direction of solution is to give up more autonomy, so more integration. The other direction of resolution is debt cancellation. That's possible; that's what he said. However, in the current situation, the euro is not sustainable. I think everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr President, I will conclude with this. It seems to me that quoting the President of De Nederlandsche Bank in this way is not correct, but I understand that Mr Frentrop is persevering in his vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u16	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. There are two flavors. There is the Camp-Knot: adapt and give up autonomy. And there is the De Vries camp: stop with the euro, because it is not sustainable. That's all the flavors there seem to be. This means that a political choice with regard to the euro, the pillar of the European Union, is inevitable. It is either abolish the De Vries line, or give up autonomy, the Knot line. That is why my first question to the Minister is: what direction does the government take: giving up autonomy or giving up the euro? Then I will return to the Prime Minister's visit to Brussels. In July he did not lose his head there, but we had to pay a huge ransom to get him back. It has become the most expensive journey a Dutch government leader has ever made. The Prime Minister promised his colleagues that we would continue to contribute to a European budget that remains over 1,000 billion, even though the second largest economy, the British, has left the Union. And he promised that the Netherlands would also contribute to the 750 billion extra for Member States that have had poor financial policies in recent years. That 750 billion was sold as a corona support, but has nothing to do with corona. This is demonstrated by the criteria on the basis of which the money is distributed. That is why my second question to the Minister: does the Minister agree with me that the 750 billion will not be distributed on the basis of how badly a Member State has been affected by the corona virus? In the meantime, we ourselves have been hit by a second corona wave. That brings me to my third question to the Minister. Can we also expect financial aid from Brussels now that it is also disappointing? I ask that for two reasons. Firstly, because I believe that there is still some money left from previous years in Brussels. That is my fourth question: is it true that the European Union has not yet spent a large part of the funds of the budget running up to this year? It's 300 billion. Is that correct or am I mistaken? The second reason why I am asking whether the Netherlands can also receive aid is that we are also entitled to part of that 750 billion pot. Not as much as Italy, which gets 220 billion, but it is a nice amount, I believe 6 billion. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. But in order to get that amount, we need to return some autonomy. Among other things, the Netherlands must further limit mortgage interest relief, increase the number of people in care, introduce different tax rules for large companies, and the European Union also wants to ensure that self-employed people in the Netherlands are better protected. I have not read anything about this in the Millions Note and therefore my fifth question to the Minister. Is the Minister going to follow the European demands for this 6 billion for the Dutch business community, or is the government just gonna leave that 6 billion on the negotiating table in Brussels as some sort of tip? Then there are the European Commission's own plans for this year. On 29 January, the Commission launched as many as 43 new initiatives, grouped along six key priorities. I'll check them out. The first was the European Green Deal. This Forum for Democracy is sceptical about these plans, and it may be skeptical about the relationship between costs and revenues. I shall not say more about it now, because the European Union has even more priorities. Secondly, the Commission wants a Europe ready for the digital age. That seems to us to be very late, because we believe that the digital age started at least 30 years ago. In 1990, according to Wikipedia. We also wonder whether this is a task for the European Union. Anyone can prepare themselves for the digital age. If 20% of the funds from the Next Generation Plan go to the digital sector, we see two risks. First of all, the risk of a lot of wasted money, based on our experience of how governments handle IT projects. Secondly, the risk of a European state watching us all according to the Chinese model. We'll see. The Commission's third priority is an economy that works for the people. We don't think so. That falls into the category of open doors. The fourth priority is a stronger Europe in the world. In the general considerations last week, we heard that the Netherlands is doing its best to achieve the NATO standard, but that the Prime Minister cannot promise or succeed. That is why my sixth question to the Minister: how does the NATO objective relate to the European priority of a stronger Europe in the world? Then there is the fifth priority of the European Commission. This is the promotion of our European way of life. I'd like to think about that a little bit longer. There is not one European way of life. A peasant in Bulgaria lives very differently from a high-ranking official in Paris. But if there is something common about European life, about culture, these are concepts such as 'legal state', 'individual freedom', 'freedom of expression' and 'tolerance'. As the French President Macron said in September of this year, being French means loving freedom, the freedom that guarantees that you can believe and not believe. Macron says it's a freedom that can't be separated from freedom of expression. And it extends to blasphemy, says Macron. Those who are French, according to the French president, accept that their religion can be mocked. Mr. Chairman. The French way of life is part of the European way of life. However, the core values of our European way of life cannot be separated from immigration. Immigration is said to enrich culture. That is indeed the case when it happens in moderation. But in French cities, some 1,300 so-called priority areas have now been identified. That's where about 5 million people live. These districts are now referred to in France as areas that have been lost to the Republic. There you no longer speak of an enrichment of European culture, where the European way of life is dominated by a different way of life. Mr. Chairman. The European Union has let millions of people in who have a different way of life than the European one and who want to keep that other way of life. They come from countries that are not rule of law. Morocco is not a rule of law, Turkey is not a rule of law, Syria is not a rule of law, Iraq is not a rule of law, Afghanistan is not a rule of law. Millions of people from these countries are not coming here because we have a rule of law, but because we have a welfare state. They don't come to embrace our freedom and tolerance, and they don't. I will not go into the events of last night, but recently it became very clear in Paris, when a teacher was beheaded because he had taught about freedom of speech, what is going on. The French President Macron announced in a response that Muslim extremists would take harder action. That got him on a scold from Turkish President Erdogan. "What is Macrons problem with Islam and Muslims?', He asked himself publicly, "He needs psychic help." Our prime minister supported Macron and tweeted: "President Erdogan's words are unacceptable." The leader of a political party in the Netherlands responded to the Prime Minister's tweet saying: "This is strange. Prime Minister stands firmly for freedom of speech, but the words of Erdogan are unacceptable. You cannot have both." Mr. Chairman. The leader of a political party in the Netherlands, in the Lower House, clearly did not understand what the European way of life means. Freedom of speech does not mean that a dictator can say what he wants. Freedom of speech means saying what the government does not like and what fellow citizens do not like. Mr Azarkan is not the only one in the Netherlands who has not yet understood our European way of life. A lot of people still have to learn that. The Ministers of Education asked all schools in the Netherlands yesterday, Monday, 2 November, to consider freedom of expression in connection with the murder of teacher Samuel Paty. Mr President, 2 November, yesterday's date, is a date marked by the members of the Democracy Group Forum. Sixteen years ago on 2 November, Theo van Gogh was brutally murdered, also because of freedom of speech, also because he insulted a prophet. That was 16 years ago yesterday. Sixteen years, and my seventh question is therefore: can the Minister indicate what the Dutch government is going to do to this sixteen-year misunderstanding about freedom of expression among Dutch people from other cultures? Will the government leave it at yesterday's appeal by the Ministers of Education, or will there be more plans like in France?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr Frentrop has just spoken extensively about the rule of law, and this had to be understood, above all, by a number of countries outside Europe, the great importance of the rule of law. We agree on that. Does Mr Frentrop therefore agree with me that we should also make the exact same point of view in the direction of Poland and Hungary: that the rule of law in Europe should not be discussed and defended as one of the cornerstones of European cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u19	Yes, I agree with Mr Vendrik that we must declare to all countries the importance of the rule of law, the importance of freedom of expression. I will come to that in a moment, because the next point is the new impetus for European democracy. Then I come to the question of which countries I think should be addressed first, so I am implicitly replying to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u20	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u21	The European Commission's sixth priority is a new stimulus for European democracy. That brings me to my eighth question to the Minister. Can he indicate what this means? Is it about strengthening democracy at a Brussels level, supranational, or is it about strengthening one or more national democracies? And if so, to which countries? Then I'll come to Mr. Vendrik. Can the Minister indicate which European Member States do and which European Member States do not need to strengthen their democracy? I can already point out that in the annual studies of Transparency International Italy, it is consistently considered to be one of the most corrupt countries in the euro area. I can also point out that the previous king of Spain received 65 million in bribes from a previous Saudi king, but the Spanish Government recently decided not to investigate this matter further. I would be surprised if Italy and Spain were not included in the list of Member States where democracy needs to be improved. Finally, this brings me to a difficult point for any democracy: the secret service. The European Union has its own espionage service. If I'm right, this is called EU INTCEN. This secret service looks around the world via spy satellites and has its own satellite centre near Madrid. The European Union also has its own spy school, the Joint European Union Intelligence School. In a democracy, supervision of secret services is a delicate but important subject. However, we do not read much about this in the documents before us. This raises the following questions for the Forum for Democracy Group. First of all... How does the Dutch Government monitor the above-mentioned activities? Second. The espionage service shares information with third countries. Which countries are these and who determines which countries share information? Is it possible for European Member States to transmit information independently to third countries? Is there any surveillance on this? Third question. Can a European Member State request information about another European Member State? Is there any surveillance on this? Fourth question. The European spy school, which is also developing drones and electronic warfare, is headed by Greece and Cyprus. The tensions in that region are increasing. Do we know, does the Dutch government know what they are doing? Who's gonna supervise that? And finally, how much money is involved in all these espionage activities? The service does not have its own budget, but is part of the European External Action Service, but who supervises expenditure, which is significant? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mr. Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr President, thank you. I have just been waiting for Mr Frentrop's speech. He came up with two examples: corruption in Italy and something with the previous Spanish king.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u24	The current Spanish government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u25	There is no doubt that it is worth taking note of this, but this is about the rule of law, and it is about two countries in Europe, which are suspending the independence of the judiciary, calling into question the free press, the free media, the cornerstone of the democratic rule of law in Europe. That is what we are talking about in the case of Poland and Hungary. So that's pretty serious. The question now is: does Mr Frentrop's group support the Dutch Government or the European Commission, if steps are to be taken towards Poland and Hungary, so that the Treaty of Europe can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u26	The answer to that, I think, is implicit. We believe it is important that the rule of law is as strong as possible in all the Member States of the European Union. If we draw up a list of countries where the rule of law is under threat, we will have Italy and Spain higher than the countries you mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u27	So you don't think an independent judiciary is that important?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u28	I also think that an independent judge is important, but I know that corruption eats away at the roots of the rule of law. We sometimes have it in the Netherlands. When we talk about corruption and crime here, we sometimes say it ourselves. I don't think we need to study very deeply to know that in Italy... I do not want to be too unkind about a fellow Member State, but I think Italy has a big problem with corruption. We're all agreed on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr Vendrik, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u30	I now hear very clearly from Mr Frentrop that the Group of the Forum for Democracy also believes that the governments in Poland and Hungary should be addressed loudly and clearly to the fact that they are violating the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law. That's how I understand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u31	Once again, the Group of the Forum for Democracy believes that all governments should be called upon to fail in the area of the rule of law. But the countries mentioned by Mr Vendrik are not at the top of our list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u32	I was intrigued by Mr Frentrop's speech and the questions about the EU's espionage activities, especially since a member of his European group, Mr John Laughland, has extremely close links with the Putin regime and also worked for a Russian think tank in Paris. There has been a lot to do about this; Mr Frentrop probably knows a lot about it. Have these questions perhaps been put from your European group and Mr Laughland, Mr Frentrop? I'll ask myself that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u33	The answer to Mr Otten's question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u34	That was enlightening, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. Otten, thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. The purpose of the debate on the State of the Union is to give the government the opportunity to account for the policies pursued and to provide insight into the policy implementation envisaged. This is summarised in the State of the European Union, presented to us by letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In my speech, I will not only comment on the note presented by the Minister, but also on the results achieved at the July European Council. Let me start with the note. I hope the Minister will forgive me, but I thought it was a bit of a saltless list of subjects on the basis of the Commission's work programme. Direction is missing, everything is called, almost everything is welcomed, everything is linked to everything. Digitisation needs to be accelerated due to COOVID-19. Sustainability is more than necessary. Europe must become an international player. Policy needs to be reformed. No fashion term is missing, but when you connect everything to everything and everything matters, you usually get nothing. I will mention just one initiative which is welcomed by the government. I could also have mentioned the organisation of education or the promotion of vocational education, which, in my view, is by definition covered by the principle of subsidiarity. But let me mention something else. Can the Minister explain why an equality strategy from the Commission is welcomed, why an EU gender equality policy is necessary? These issues are indeed important. They are so important in the VVD's vision that we have to decide for ourselves. I do not like to do that with Poland and Hungary and some other Member States, because then I do not know what the outcome will be. What the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats fears is that the policy must be changed in a less liberal way, and this must be avoided. Moreover, why is the principle of subsidiarity not applicable here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u37	Is Mr Van Ballekom familiar with the fact that lhbti-free zones have now been created in Poland, which...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u38	I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u39	Does it fit within its liberal view of the autonomy of the country to do so? We were just having a little debate on the rule of law. Does that fit within the image of the VVD of autonomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u40	That is more than I know, and I will come to that, if you will bear with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u41	Would you like to speak through the chairman, Mr. Van Ballekom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u42	I will. But you heard me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u43	I heard you, yes, and I think Mr. Backer did too. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u44	Now the Minister will say: Mr Van Ballekom, that is important because all Member States must be convinced that the principle of equality must be applied. My response would be: Minister, that is superfluous, because the values on which the Union is founded are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values have Member States in common in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women. This text will sound familiar to the Minister, because it is the literal text of Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Therefore, I would like an answer to the question as to why such an Ibti strategy is welcomed, including a response to a more stringent application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which the government, in response to the report of the Clingendael Institute, says it is in favour of. As a result, what is the situation with the conference on the future of Europe? The passages in the State of the Union provide information on a bottom-up procedure involving as many citizens and bodies as possible. I read some comments about deepening democracy, bringing the citizen closer, but can the government be more specific about the current state of affairs and the concrete Dutch commitment? Without strict compliance with the standards and values laid down in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, without strict application of the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity, it seems virtually impossible to maintain sufficient support for the Union. And without the Union, we cannot, let us be clear. In the case of constantly deviant and unacceptable behaviour, we must start thinking in opt-out terms. The next issue in the state of the Union I would have liked to read more about is the economic policy to be pursued. The EU is more than market and currency, as was rightly decided by the government. But the condition for further development is that the economy needs to be in order and there are some concerns about that in my opinion. The European Central Bank was still printing money to cope with the next crisis, or he was once again asked to take action to mitigate the COOVID-19 consequences. If problems could be solved by printing money, there would be no more problems, given the policies of the central banks over the past decade. What have the effects of this policy been and what does the government expect from the ECB measures taken under COVID-19? Have the consequences of this policy been taken into account in the decisions taken in the context of the recovery plan? Can an insight be provided into how the SURE programme is running? Is the possibility to borrow money from the ESM to cope with the consequences of COVID-19 used? Mr. Chairman. I come to the appreciation of the results achieved at the last European Council. The European Commission has come up with far-reaching proposals. So far that you could summarize it in a Chinese context as the Great Jump Forward. And as we all know, that had dramatic consequences for the Chinese population. So far, too, I wondered whether the Commission would have had the courage to present these plans if the United Kingdom had still been a member; in all likelihood not. The Berlaymont already speculated that the smaller Member States would, under massive pressure, bind with the help of pressure from Berlin and Paris and by framing these Member States as the cheap four, five or six. A scandalous tactic to put the Member States with the most solidarity in this way. Anyway, fortunately, the design has only partially succeeded, thanks to our Prime Minister. Despite his admirable efforts, I would like to make a few comments here and there. The results are divided into two parts: the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Plan. The MFF should focus on modernising policies and the recovery plan should be inextricably linked to national reforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u45	I was just triggered by Mr Van Ballekom talking about the frugal four and the strategy of the Netherlands to work together with the 'frugals'. Only those frugal four turned out not to be four, but one, namely the Netherlands. Because when it came down to it, the other three had flown. How does Mr Van Ballekom look back on that strategy, which actually exploded in our own face at the end of the negotiations? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u46	The Foreign Minister can answer that much better than I do, because he has been there, but I believe that the Prime Minister was supported by more Member States in the course of the meeting than when he started it. In that respect, therefore, that has not led to a bad result, but I will come to that, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u47	So if I hear correctly, Mr Van Ballekom believes that the frugal-four approach was a successful approach for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u48	I want to talk about the most united Member States of the European Union, and I said in my speech that I am sorry that Berlaymont has tried to isolate these people or these Member States. That didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u50	First the comments and questions on the MFF and the EUR 1,074 billion. Although there is an increase while you would have expected a decrease due to the departure of the United Kingdom, an increase can be accepted under certain circumstances. I personally consider the total size less important if conditions are met. An increase in expenditure can be well defended if there is a useful use to be achieved by modernising the budget, but this is only partly the case. Modernisation is mainly in foreign titles, such as a Commissioner for the economy, who works for the people. You'd appoint a commissioner for the economy who doesn't work for the people... Of total expenditure, only 12% is reserved for expenditure related to the internal market, innovation and digitisation, 3% for foreign policy, security and border surveillance and 9% for development cooperation. There is 70% for agriculture and cohesion policy, the so-called old policy, and 7% for administrative expenditure. In short, more than 85% go to old policy. This first condition is therefore hardly met, and that is disappointing. The second condition is a fair distribution of the burden. That is where the government deserves all the praise. The Netherlands remains one of the most important net contributors, but fortunately, because we are also one of the most prosperous Member States in the European Union, but the compensation remains in place. The perception fee will not be reduced or abolished, as the Commission wanted, but will be increased to 25%. This is fair and in line with the conclusions of the Fontainebleau European Council. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, not only life but also Europe is a matter of giving and taking. This MFF seems to my group to be within acceptable limits, but it should not, of course, get any worse. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions about the MFF. I have read with surprise that the midterm review expression verbis is excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr Van Ballekom was just talking about old policy. He said that much of the money goes to old policy, including agriculture. Actually, he regrets that. My question to Mr Van Ballekom is: is he now also in favour of a drastic reduction of European agricultural funds in order to get rid of this old policy and to spend the resources that will then be released for new policies or innovation, which he himself is in favour of? My question is therefore whether the old policy and, above all, the money for agriculture can be drastically reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u52	I would have welcomed it, Mr Koole, if the new MFF had more money earmarked for innovation and digitisation, because cohesion policy and agricultural policy are an important part of budget support and income support. As far as I'm concerned, I would have liked some of that. In the agricultural reform plans, I think it is important, and this has also been partly done, that it should be linked to the greening of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u53	I am glad to hear that at least Mr Van Ballekom and the VVD are putting pressure on the government, I hope that the funds for that old agricultural policy will be reduced so that more money is available for new types of agriculture and other innovation. I very much support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u54	On agricultural policy, and Mr Van Ballekom has a lot of international experience, couldn't it also be that if you put the negotiations on not increasing expenditure, you also have less control over the distribution of expenditure? If you say in advance that you're no longer in the game, don't you have one less card in the game as a negotiator in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u55	I know that reasoning, but I don't think it goes on. I believe that the observation has been made on the basis of the European Commission's proposal that far too much money is being allocated to the old policy. If you can't achieve your goals by getting more digitisation and more innovation in the budget, I can imagine a government saying: well, if it's all old policy, I insist that I don't pay much more for it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u56	That's kind of a defeat strategy: I don't invest in it, then comes out what I don't want, but okay, then the final package is what it is. I have a comment and a question on that point. The point is that the European agricultural policy was put to the vote in the European Parliament. Now we are in the same group together, the Liberals. Your colleagues voted for it, we voted against it. That was the point. Second. You just praised the net net scheme. I am going to talk about this in detail, Mr President, but don't worry. What if we looked at the benefits of every euro invested in Europe? There are three studies on that. With the 6 billion we still count the customs contribution, 6.85 billion. One study estimates that we have 84 billion proceeds. The other study goes a little less far and says 68 billion. The third study is slightly more modest with 40 billion. So there's a huge multiplier in that investment in Europe. Would it not be wise to look at Europe as a growth fund, perhaps the best growth fund there is? That could have been the commitment of the negotiations. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u57	This growth fund has been designed in various ways. I don't know these studies in detail. I would like to study them, but as I said to Mr Backer before this sitting: I only believe in the statistics I false myself. I'd like to do it. I was talking about the MFF and the recovery plan, which I have yet to come up with, which is why it is necessary to link it with reforms. I think that conditionality is very important in the reform process if economic growth is to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u58	Mr Van Ballekom has just spoken about a lack of willingness to reform, for example in the area of agricultural policy. There's another package for seven years that's been a copy of the last seven years. It must be greenish, I hear Mr Van Ballekom say. All this seems to me to be very important, but how can his own party in the European Parliament have voted in favour of this proposal? What are we supposed to make of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u59	I believe that the new package has made a link with the greening of agriculture. I think that my party, but I have not yet discussed it in detail, would have liked to have gone further, but you have to look at what is feasible at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u60	That's what's good about politics: what's feasible is what we determine with each other. That is why I am asking this question, to see what we have about this sound of the VVD here in the Upper House. Of course, it is a bit crazy for the European Parliament to vote in favour of a weak compromise, which does not bring greening to the previous period and which has a basic lack of a sense of reform. It is all the points Mr Van Ballekom raises. Maybe we can try something today. I think there are two routes. The first route could be for the European Commission to withdraw the MFF proposal on grounds that Mr Van Ballekom might address: not reformist, not green, so we cannot go on. Is that an option? The second option would be to address the Dutch Government, the colleague of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Schouten, the Minister for Agriculture. It has agreed to a compromise close to this outcome in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr. Van Ballekom, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u62	Would you agree that the Dutch Government should simply veto this, that we should start playing it really hard because it is worth it to us that agriculture is going through a change of course?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Van Ballekom, please give me a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u64	The policy is agreed by qualified majority rather than veto. I don't like vetos that much. I think we're just differences of opinion. I believe that a step has been taken towards greening agricultural policy. That it should have been more, I agree with you, but at some point we must also count our buttons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u65	Mr. Vendrik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u66	Then it is good to note that Mr Van Ballekom is showing a certain grin about, again, Europe that does not deliver what he thinks it should deliver, but that there is no political response to it. Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u67	If my intervention sounds like a grumpy intervention, I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u68	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u69	I had two more questions about the MFF. I have read with surprise that expression verbis is excluded from a midterm review. At present, these evaluations are mostly minor, but given the particular circumstances and the consistency with the recovery programme, it might have been appropriate to do so now. The question is: who has insisted on including this conclusion and what are the reasons behind not wanting a midterm review? A second question concerns the so-called RAL. Paragraph 7 of the Council conclusions states that the amount remaining, although committed but not spent, amounts to EUR 308 billion. That is 30% of the previous seven-year programme. Can the government tell us what the reason is? I am afraid that the amount will remain available and procedures will be simplified, allowing the money to be spent more quickly, including by increasing the pre-financing rules. My question then is whether this is not contrary to prudent fiscal policy. It reeks in my experience of throwing money over the fence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u70	I would like to ask Mr Van Ballekom a question about the money left in the budget. Last week we had general considerations. I also asked the Prime Minister if there was any money left. He said it wasn't a significant amount. You mentioned 308 billion. Does this mean that the Prime Minister apparently didn't know you didn't ask for it last week, or do you assume that he didn't give us the full information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u71	The Prime Minister answered the question correctly, Mr. President. That's what I want to say to Mr. Frentrop. The Prime Minister spoke about payment appropriations. They're practically exhausted. There's only two billion left. I am talking about commitment, which the EU has committed itself to and where the programmes have not yet been implemented. I would like to know from the government what caused this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u72	But when it comes to commitment, I come to you now as an expert in this field, and if I listen carefully, it actually means that there was 308 billion left to stimulate the European economy, at the beginning of this year, when our government in Brussels said: that 500 billion or 750 billion, do it all. But there was another 308 billion which is now going to stimulate the European economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u73	The economy will only be stimulated if the money is spent and not if the money remains on the shelf. So in that sense, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u74	Finally, Mr Frentrop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u75	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u76	My question is also for the Government: should Articles 6 and 12 of the Financial Regulation not be amended? Because, under normal circumstances, such appropriations will be cancelled if they are not used in a financial year. Although there are limited exceptions to this rule, the availability of 308 billion seems to me to be at odds with this rule. In the course of the official preparation, the three-year rule was discussed, by way of derogation from the annuality laid down in Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure, but I have not been able to find it anywhere. I'd like to have a reaction to this. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the 750 billion recovery plan, initially its size. After all, before the European Council, Berlin and Paris had announced that 500 billion would be a good compromise. I believe that several Member States could have lived with this amount and not just the coalition of the most united Member States. It is remarkable that it has reached 750 billion. Is there any explanation for this? This is taking into account that the ESM and the EIB have money that has hardly been spent. Then we're talking 500 billion. And then there's the 30 billion from the previous MFK, Mr. Frentrop. So in short, add up to over 800 billion. In addition, Fitch indicated that the ESM still has an additional borrowing capacity of EUR 400 billion. In short, there is potential, overall, EUR 1 200 billion left on the table. As Prime Minister, I would have said: ladies and gentlemen too, knock on my door when these amounts are exhausted, but not before. Maybe he did say that, but the Foreign Minister can confirm this, I think. As far as financing is concerned, the following. The Commission's exceptional financing powers run from January '21 to December '26. These are extraordinary powers which, in my view, run counter to the spirit and letter of the Treaty, especially because the expenditure of the recovery fund runs through the budget and the Union's existing programmes. Fortunately, strictly limited in time, but I would like a clear explanation of why we did not choose to run these programmes through the ESM, especially the loan part. A second point in this connection: everything will enter into force with immediate effect and, where appropriate, with retroactive effect. As a lawyer, this would make me a little restless. As you know, the agreements must be confirmed by many national parliaments. This involves more than 50 approvals because some Member States have regional parliaments and others have a two-chamber system. What happens if one of these parliaments has insurmountable objections and does not wish to ratify? Should the loans be returned retroactively to the lending party? Thirdly, because it is actually normal expenditure under a specific heading, it is concluded that the budgetary authority will exercise political control over expenditure. This will be described later. What am I supposed to imagine, and what is the role of the European Court of Auditors? What should I imagine when describing later the exercise of political control over expenditure? At first sight, I have less difficulty with the taxes that may be levied in the future. Why? If Van Ballekom fell off his faith, I hear the minister thinking. Because they are actual adjustments to the basis on which the own resources decision is based. The Commission does not levy taxes, but several taxes are incorporated into the basis on which the contribution to the European Union is based. I also think that 'contribution' is a better term than 'own resources', because that term wrongly gives the Commission the impression that the money belongs to the institution. As we all know: there is no public money, there is only tax payer's money. The contribution to the European Union, apart from the revenue from traditional own resources, customs duties and sugar levies, consists of VAT payments, and the remainder is adjusted by a percentage of GNI, all very cumbersome. Setting contributions on the basis of GNI would be much more insightful. The determination of the payment is adjusted due to a plastic charge to be introduced. It is unclear whether it is based on whether each Member State is also obliged to introduce such a levy. Or is this just for the calculation of the payment? I'm assuming this last one. Although it has been briefly discussed during the official preparation, please confirm this, even if this is detrimental to the total Dutch contribution or advantageous. Is the later payment and basis adjusted for a so-called carbon border adjustment mechanism and what are its financial consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u77	I hear Mr Van Ballekom say: he does not have so much problems with European taxation, because that will then be incorporated into the basis. If there were to be such a tax that would be incorporated into the base, that would have already been agreed. But you won't have any influence on that anymore. In fact, the European Commission will be able to count on a certain amount of income. Is that a correct assumption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u78	Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u79	No, I think there's been a misunderstanding with Mrs Faber. The overall size of the budget shall be determined on the basis of the MFF and the manner in which it is to be financed. That is up to the Member States. It is part of GNI, or VAT, which is also a European tax, but it is levied by the Netherlands and, on the basis of the Dutch tax, part of the revenue from VAT is transferred to the European Union. But the European Union as such has no influence whatsoever on the level of VAT to be levied. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u80	I think we have a miscommunication. Suppose, for example, there would be some kind of CO tax, or a plastic tax, which is a little bit coming. It is agreed on how high that levy would be. Is it not true that the European Commission can actually count on a certain amount of revenue? Because those negotiations have been, and then you won't have any influence on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u81	Yeah, that's my question to the government, too. Does the European Council's conclusion mean that a plastic charge should be introduced? You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u82	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u83	Speaking of the carbon tax, I may have missed that, but do there already exist clear principles for the government's assessment? Such a mechanism could lead to improper obstacles to the free movement of goods and hinder trade with countries outside the European Union. And the proper functioning of the internal market is already under pressure due to the adapted state aid policy and, of course, the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Back to the recovery plan. The commitments for the recovery plan must have been entered into before the end of 2023. In short, the plans must have been assessed and approved. Payments should be made before the end of 2026. Is that right? A special provision where it may also be established that a substantial part of the expenditure goes to infrastructure. These are often projects with a long preparation and implementation time. In this context, is it simply not better to pay in instalments as long as the programme and the reforms are on track? Once the money is transferred, the control is often a wash nose, so is my experience. In this context, the VVD is also curious whether the government itself already has concrete plans that can be submitted under the recovery plan. Finally, not the least important thing: conditionality. The rule of law must be shaped as proposed by the Commission, in order to impose sanctions which can only be blocked by a reverse qualified majority. I understand by now that the idea of a reverse qualified majority has been abandoned. May I ask why? Penalties may be imposed to protect the EU budget and the recovery fund from fraud and unlawful acts. That's good. The mp wanted to link it to the payout of subsidies and that is something else, I think. I'd like a reaction to that. The European Council conclusions on the rule of law are very vague and do not give any direction except that this issue needs to be worked out. I understand that there is work being done on the establishment of agreements in regulations. I would like more clarity on this. Does the state of law apply to both the fund's budget and the budget itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ballekom speaks about the conditionality that my group has taken from its heart. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u85	I wasn't even done with that, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u86	Well, then it gets better. I would just like to ask you one question. From all the reports from the four negotiating days, I understand that this subject was not really on the table until Monday afternoon, because we first negotiated the money for three and a half days. Does that not give any thought to the priority of this issue and the commitment of the Dutch Government to this process of negotiation? Can you reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u87	I think that the Foreign Minister should answer that, because he has been to the European Council. I don't. It is difficult for me to say exactly when it has been discussed. I have also heard the reports that it was only on the last day, but the further progress of my speech will be favourable to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u88	That's beautiful. Could we please put this question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u89	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u90	My question is: does this conditionality apply to both the budget and the recovery fund? And are subsidies blocked if the rule of law is compromised, or is it just about fraud and unlawfulness? Is it correct that ultimately only on the basis of a Commission proposal can we act? In my view, then, there is no longer an emergency braking procedure, and certainly not when it is decided by a qualified majority. Because there will be no Commission proposal, that is my experience. Does the government agree with the VVD Group that the Orban government is announcing policies that are in flagrant violation of European standards and values? Now that the European Court of Justice has flagged back the Hungarian Government and found that its education law is in breach of European laws and regulations, now that Mr Orban has informed the President of the Commission that she should dismiss the Czech Vice-President Jourova for insulting Hungary, is it not time that the payments to Hungary were suspended? That is the question of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u91	Before we get to Orban, I had a question about the finances, because that's what we were just talking about. First of all, I am pleased to note that Mr Van Ballekom is following us in the assessment that the emergency braking procedure is not an emergency brake in practice. We have said that since day one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u92	I'm just following myself, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u93	I am glad that the VVD Group now sees that. But I have a question for Mr Van Ballekom. The government agreement Trust in the future, which your party has negotiated, says: "The joint financing of debts of EU Member States is undesirable. The EU should not become a debt community. Leading the cabinet is therefore that no further steps are taken towards a transfer union, not even by introducing (forms of) eurobonds." When this recovery fund was proclaimed in July, President Macron made it quite clear: 'This is a premiere', he even called it 'a common debt union'. That is, of course, what it is and what the Netherlands also guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u94	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u95	My question to Mr Van Ballekom is this. The Prime Minister denied here last week that this would be the case. Who is right, according to the VVD, President Macron or Prime Minister Rutte, who says that this is not the case? All people assume it is. The financial markets assume that this is the case. How does Mr Van Ballekom see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u96	Van Ballekom sees that very simple. What we are discussing at the moment is the Multiannual Financial Framework. That has nothing to do with Eurobonds. Nor does the recovery fund have anything to do with Eurobonds. It is a way of trying to get the European economy back on its feet. What Mr Macron dreams, that's not my concern. That is not part of this debate either. Maybe he's dreaming about eurobonds. I don't. I might get a nightmare, and maybe the Prime Minister will too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u97	I do not think it was Mr Macron's dream, because he simply tweeted from his Elysée twitter account that a common debt had been incurred for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u98	Whether you should take that seriously...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u99	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u100	I'm just... Mr Van Ballekom is talking through you now, so I've lost my touch. This disruption action has worked well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u101	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u102	My question is this. Then the financial markets will also be in a sort of dream, because everyone assumes that an issue has just been issued by the European Commission on this basis. There is a huge appetite from the market, partly because it is seen that the strong countries guarantee this. The Netherlands is triple A, Sweden, Germany, you name it. And those bonds also go on triple A, so the markets have that vague dream of Mr Van Ballekom as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mr. Otten, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u104	Does Mr Van Ballekom agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u105	Mr. Van Ballekom and then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u106	In fact, we guarantee 5% of the debt to the European Union. That's about our percentage of the payments. Again, the MFF is not about Eurobonds. The recovery plan is not about eurobonds either. And what other heads of government want to tweet... I hope to be off a lot of tweets after tomorrow, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u107	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u108	My question to the government was: is it not time to suspend payments to Hungary? Should the government take a different view, can it indicate what further malpractices need to be declared before the European subsidy flow dries out? The appreciation of the government on the rule of law report is more descriptive than concrete. Hence the question. This also applies mutatis mutandis to Poland, where the immunity of judges is withdrawn by a decision of an independent disciplinary chamber, an illegal institution according to the European Court of Justice, but the Polish Government does not care. Last but not least, would it be difficult for the government to ratify an own resources decision only if the rule of law has been drawn up and adopted to the letter in a precise and satisfactory manner? For the sake of clarity, a mechanism that can only be dealt with on the basis of a Commission proposal, which can then be decided by qualified majority, is, in my view, not particularly effective in stopping misconduct. So much for the linking of payments to the rule of law. A few more questions on the linking of the recovery fund to the reforms. It is essential, as we have heard from the Prime Minister during the General Political Reviews. This was also discussed on the other side for a long time, but this has produced little clarity. The agreements set out in the conclusions of the European Council are interpreted as a "stop the show" mechanism for up to three months. After three months, it is up to the Commission to make a final assessment of whether the conditions for reform are met, whether or not based on an opinion of the EFC. Is this interpretation correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mr President, thank you. Mr Van Ballekom spoke well about what the VVD Group thought should be done in Poland and Hungary. Do I understand his argument that he is actually skipping one step, namely that the Dutch Government has finally agreed to the position in the European Council that lack of rule of law, let me put it this way, will not become conditionality in the MFF, but that conditionality, according to the European Council, is limited to fraud and corruption? Do I hear Mr Van Ballekom say that we do not think that is enough in the VVD? And isn't that what the government is asking for to revise that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u110	My group is very interested in how this conditionality is worked out in regulations. My group is also very curious about the regulation on the recovery plan and the 750 billion. I hope that there will be a link between the payment of subsidies and programmes to the rule of law and reforms. Because without reforms, history has learned that, mopping with the tap is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u111	Is it not automatically the implication of what Mr Van Ballekom says that this statement in the European Council supported by the Dutch Government should simply be withdrawn? That it's not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u112	No, the European Council conclusions state that this link must be established. The conditionality is set out in that. But apparently they haven't had time to work that out to the letter. Hence my appeal that I should like to have an understanding with my group of how this is being worked out, and that we should then proceed to ratify the own resources decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u113	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. Can the Council's final assessment not be made through the same mechanism as was originally intended for the rule of law, namely by means of a reverse qualified majority? Although this is not a veto that the government at first instance has put in place, it is a mechanism that provides more certainty that the three-month provision is now in place. The VVD Group would also like to see all this expressed in a regulation, because, on the basis of the European Council conclusions, it is not clear how all this is going to work and whether conditionality really gets its hands on it. I think we all agree that if the rule of law is not firmly regulated, this abuse encourages, and if the reforms do not come about, the crisis cannot be overcome, no matter how much money is pumped into an economy. But if this is ultimately to be the conclusion, which I do not exclude from the reform experience since the introduction of the euro, then what is the government's response? Mr. Chairman. So much for my first term. It has been a choice of topics focused on getting your own house in order. That is essential in my group's view before you talk about other ambitions, such as geopolitical ones. The Commission of Mrs Von der Leyen wants to be a geopolitical committee, she stated during the last State of the Union. Europe no longer wants to be a playing field, but a player. But a real player spends more than 3% of the MFF on foreign policy, defence and security expenditure. And a real player also honours his international obligations. Now only 7 out of 27 Member States meet NATO's 2% standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u115	Your speaking time is over. Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u116	Yeah, yeah. Only if you comply with this can you awe with any authority and not before. To paraphrase an old powerhouse, I wonder how many divisions Mr Borrell has. For the record, in order to avoid any ambiguity, Mr Borrell is the foreign representative of the European Union. The VVD Group hopes to be able to highlight such issues in the next European reflections, because then we have partially overcome our internal problems. I apologize for the tsunami questions, but I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mr Otten had an interruption, but I don't see him right now. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to wait for the end of Mr Van Ballekom's speech. He said something at the end, but I would also like to return to what he said earlier in his speech. He used to talk about the Berlaymont. That is the building of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u119	I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u120	Me too. We all know that. Mr Van Ballekom has just referred to the statements made by the current President of the Commission, namely that the Commission must become much more geopolitical. That reminded me a bit of the previous Commission, the Juncker Commission, which said: we will be a very political Commission. He also referred to his Commission as the 'last chance' Commission. Does Mr Van Ballekom, and with him the VVD Group, not agree with my group that it is a problem that the Commission should stand up as a political Commission, an institution that wants to play a political role, with great stories and great ambitions, rather than a more coordinating and mediation role? I also refer to the report by the Clingendael Institute on the role, power and powers of the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u121	Mr Van Ballekom, please give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u122	That is why, in my first European General Reviews, I have put the emphasis on getting your own house in order, and I stress that you must fulfil your obligations. If that's the case, I think you may have more ambitions, but not under the current circumstances. I think you are right to get your own 27 Member States and the Union to get the economy back on track and to keep the agreements we have made with each other. Only when that is the case can you enforce authority in the international game. It just can't be before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u123	Thank you. Mr. Van Apeldoorn, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u124	But if the house is in order, is it up to the European Commission to play a political role in this way, or are the Member States still leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u125	I believe that the European Commission can take initiatives, but the European Parliament and the European Council will ultimately decide how this is to be handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u126	Then Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u127	I just had a brief question to Mr Van Ballekom on the reform section. I see all sorts of reports that the Netherlands itself is probably not eligible for amounts from the so-called recovery fund, because we are not making enough reforms, including the abolition of the mortgage interest rate deduction. Does Mr Van Ballekom, does his party, the VVD, believe that the mortgage interest subsidy should be abolished in order to meet the European Commission's demands to obtain money from the recovery fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u128	My group does not believe that, but I know those reports that we should abolish the mortgage interest rebate before we can be eligible for aid from the recovery fund, even at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u129	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u130	I shall do so in a moment to Mr Van Ballekom, who is sitting right next to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u132	Perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs could also comment on this, but I have not read these messages in so many words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u134	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about Europe and the EU in a year in which our continent has been hit by the worst crisis since the Second World War and on a day when voters in the US may make the most fundamental choice in decades, a choice that also depends a lot on Europe. Enough to consider so and to be concerned about, apart from the corona pandemic. Like terrorist attacks that try to hit us in our hearts and in our freedom. We live in a world in which a dark nationalism, the nationalism of our own country first, at the expense of the other, increases rather than decreases. And this is what we need more than ever in these pandemic times, but also in order to build a better post-corona world, international solidarity and cooperation. I hope the Minister shares the concerns of my group. I'd like to hear his reflection on this. Although international cooperation is also a global task, European cooperation also remains in a corona crisis in which the primacy necessarily lies with the national state, without prejudice. Because we need this European cooperation to tackle cross-border problems such as the climate crisis, not through the proposed old Green Deal, tax avoidance and fair regulation of migration and asylum flows, and also aspects of the fight against the virus benefit from European coordination. But the question is how to shape European cooperation. Although European cooperation involves more than just the European Union, the EU does play a central role in this. I will therefore focus on cooperation within the EU. Mr. Chairman. The design of the current EU is something wrong, while my group is convinced that we will continue to need the European Union very much. How can we ensure that the EU becomes future-proof? In other words, an agenda for the conference on the future of Europe. Firstly, as I have said before, the EU must become more democratic. The EU will be democratic or it will not be. For my group, a democratic Union is primarily a Union that strengthens national democracy rather than undermines it. Unfortunately, at the moment, too often we see the reverse movement towards further strengthening of Brussels' power at the expense of the Member States. I'd like to hear how the Minister sees this. Does he see that movement, reinforced by the current crisis, too? For example, the European Commission for Health Care wants to make it a European competence. "Never washed a good crisis," they also think in power hungry Brussels. It is a good thing that, with respect for national competences, cooperation between EU Member States, for example in the fight against the virus, is scaled up and countries help each other to complement deficits, as proposed in the EU4Health programme. At the same time, however, we must also ensure that Brussels is no longer in the way of national health systems. Last year I asked the Minister, during these reflections, how to ensure that European tender rules are not so much in the way of our unique home and youth care. His little encouraging response at the time was: yes, that is indeed a problem, but it is established in the rules of the internal market and we as the Netherlands will not change it. But doesn't indicate that we have a much bigger problem in the EU, I ask the Minister. And doesn't that mean that we need a much more fundamental reform? However, my group welcomes the fact that Minister De Jonge has commissioned an investigation into how the European Procurement Directive is working out for the social domain. The clear conclusion was that European rules are inefficient and obstructive here. I would like to hear from the Minister what steps can be taken by this cabinet to bring about a genuine revision of the procurement directive. Because why would Brussels interfere with how we manage our home care, without any economic gain? Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, this is an example of how a more democratic EU also means a more flexible EU with more room for Member States and thus limits the often limitless internal market. We have seen in the corona crisis that, when it comes to it, the internal market can indeed be limited in the event of an emergency. Why should this not also be more structural if it gains Europe's democratic capacity and legitimacy? I'd like a response from the Minister. To this end, last year, I tabled a motion which was subsequently held and asked the government to analyse how the European market organisation could be adapted so that it would no longer interfere with the service of public interests. It is therefore a good thing that the European public procurement rules and the social domain that research has now come about. As far as my group is concerned, however, this should be taken more broadly, because in other areas too, the one-size-fits-all approach to the internal market sometimes hinders our democratic choices for certain public interests. But maybe now it's better to take that with you in the formation. A democratic Europe is also a Europe which restricts the power of multinationals and financial markets, rather than giving them ample employment, as has been the case with the neoliberal union of recent years or decades. The last thing we need to do is to further increase the power of multinationals by concluding dated trade agreements such as CETA. But hopefully we will come to a detailed discussion about this in this house not too long. One thing is clear: as we appear to be saying goodbye to neoliberalism by a majority in this country, it is also high time to say goodbye to the neoliberal EU. In a democratic EU, the Member States themselves must, of course, also be democratic. That has already been discussed at length this morning. How countries like Hungary and Poland destroy their own democratic rule of law is, in my group's view, an existential threat to the EU. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. I agree with what has already been asked this morning: what about the conditionality of the rule of law that would apply to the European budget, including the recovery fund? Mr. Chairman. Second. The EU will either be social and solidarity or it will not be. All over Europe, the corona crisis has made the inequality that has been rising for years painful for everyone and, as a disaster for disaster, the crisis has further increased social gaps in our society. This makes the task of making the EU even more social all the more urgent. So let the EU finally align itself with the European Convention on Human Rights, as required by the Treaty of Lisbon, and with the European Social Charter of the Council of Europe. But above all, give ample work to countries to pursue their own democratically motivated social policies: give room to the Italians to make Italy more social and to the Dutch to make the Netherlands more social. A social Europe is also a Europe in which we say goodbye to the austerity orthodoxy that has put so many countries into misery. In this respect, the European response to the corona crisis is brightening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u135	What a wonderful moment this is: the SP is discovering bright spots in European cooperation. I was gonna hook up to that. It was intuition. Would it, in the eyes of the SP Group, contribute to the fight against the pandemic if Europe were to do several things in this area, when Europe is not really competent? Europe has now taken a number of steps, but we may well benefit from further coordination and support from the European Union in this pandemic and beyond. How's the SP in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u136	Thank you for this question, I say to Mr Backer. I have just said a few words about this. We support what the EU can already do and in part does. We also need to learn from this crisis, so maybe next time it can be even faster and more adequate. But the EU and the European Commission can play a coordinating and supportive role. In this context, the proposal for the EU4Health programme, which I believe has not yet been finalised, has been put forward. That is also about coordination. It may be about supplementing each other's deficits. There may be a shortage of beds, staff or protective equipment in certain countries. Then that can be coordinated. We would not be in favour of what President Ursula von der Leyen recently suggested, namely to transfer, at least in part, the competence in the field of national health care to the European level, making it a European competence. We believe that the Member States are best equipped to set up and manage their own national health systems. That is also a question of democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u137	I agree with that last point. This is actually the first point, namely public health. Thank you for your answer. I have one question that may be a bit crazy on this subject, but do you still have the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u138	I'll get to that. At least, I will not go into that in detail, but I had actually arrived at the lights especially for Mr Backer. That has to do with the euro. You can ask your question now, but I will leave that to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u139	Mr. Backer, your third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u140	Yes. It is a second bright spot that the SP regards the euro as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u141	The euro is not a glimmer of light, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u142	Mr. Backer, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u143	This is a serious point, because we are in the middle of the pandemic. We are in the middle of a situation that is far-reaching for the whole of Europe. Mr Van Apeldoorn also talks about this. But I understood that the SP has in its new election programme that the SP wants to leave the euro area. If the SP enters the government, it would want to leave the eurozone. Did I get that correctly? And when do you intend to do that? And is that a hard point for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u144	That was your third time in this interruption, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u145	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u146	Mr. Van Apeldoorn and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u147	I would like to answer the question, Mr President, because it is a rather important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u148	Yes, and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u149	Also in this house, also by the D66 group, is often talked about fake news. I think this is a case of fake news. I have also read in the newspapers that the SP wants to leave the euro immediately and re-introduce the guilder. I do not think that this has been a bad idea on the part of journalists, but they have read the electoral programme, I have to say: the draft election programme, after all, is not sufficiently well read. What is in the election programme is that the euro is unsustainable. That's an old SP point of view. We have expressed this view since the Maastricht Treaty, and we still think so. We are also seeing more and more arguments for the unsustainability of the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u150	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, may I ask you to give me a brief answer? Because the whole election program is gonna take too much time. So if you'd like to finish this, please, and then we'll continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u151	Once again, in our electoral programme, we see that the euro is unsustainable. That has also been mentioned this morning, also by others. We must therefore prepare ourselves for a possible unbundling of the euro. It should preferably be as controlled as possible. For this, we should consider scenarios and also alternatives to the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u152	Yes, thank you. This interruption is stopping, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u153	Mr President, I am glad that I asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u154	Fine. Mr. Van Apeldoorn, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u155	Yes. I spoke specifically for Mr Backer about points of light, but I do not know whether he will agree with the points of light that I am now referring to. The social instability and shrinkage pact, also known as the SGP, i.e. the destructive budgetary rules based on an outdated economic theory from the end of the last century, has been temporarily suspended in the context of the corona crisis. But I ask the Minister when this pact will finally be called into question. What is not social at all in the current EU, but frankly antisocial, are the poignant abuses of migrant workers within the EU. I am pleased that my party, together with the Christian Union, has a plan to put an end to unregulated labour migration in the EU and the exploitation practices associated with it; now the cabinet. The most poignant example of the lack of solidarity in Europe, unfortunately also on the Dutch side, is how we deal with refugees and how we fail to put an end to degrading practices on the Greek islands. How is it that this cabinet and this coalition are still not prepared to bring 500 children safely to the Netherlands even after the terrible fire on Moria? Where's the shame on this minister's jaws? I'd like a response. Today's pressing question is, of course, how, in the midst of the corona crisis, while more and more Member States are being flooded by a second wave, we can best organise European solidarity in order to overcome that crisis. For a long time, this solidarity did not seem to exist at all. After a rather embarrassing spectacle on the part of this government, a deal was reached on a European recovery fund after a lot of talk. However, my group still has many questions about this so-called Next Generation fund. Firstly, we have great difficulty with this fund for the same reason that others welcome it, namely that it is taking an important step towards deepening monetary union and towards fiscal federalism. The Minister will undoubtedly see this differently, but I ask him the question of the democratic legitimacy of this debt fund. And how temporary is this construction? The ECB recently called for the debt fund to be made permanent. How does the Minister feel about that? And ECB member Klaas Knot recently made an unequivocal plea for the further transfer of national sovereignty to the European level, as was recalled this morning. This is the only way the euro could survive. Does the Minister agree with Knot? Is a further transfer of sovereignty inevitable or is the President of De Nederlandsche Bank here bullshit? Mr. Chairman. Above all, my group is disappointed by the lack of creative capacity in the search for means to organise European solidarity in the corona crisis. Because wouldn't there also be very good alternatives to a 750 billion fund managed by the European Commission on top of the European budget, which is now also greater than this government has always said it wants? I refer, for example, to a solidarity levy on flash capital, where you use the proceeds to combat the corona crisis, both inside and outside Europe, or a solidarity levy on large companies that are bulking from profits. In short, couldn't we all have come up with a better plan? What the government has supposedly dragged out is that aid to other countries is subject to strict conditions and is linked to so-called reforms. But I ask the Minister whether these are not the same reforms as the reforms that were imposed on countries in the euro crisis and have put them further into social misery. That is not solidarity. Finally, Mr President. What began as a peace project must not end as a war project. It is good that this cabinet, with the Prime Minister first, now sees Europe as more than just a single market and a single currency, but not if it is now going to trade it for a single market, a single currency and an army. The Dutch Government always says it doesn't want to do this, but it is doing everything in the meantime, with every step on the road to an EU that wants to be a military force instead of, above all, strengthening international law and multilateral cooperation. Where does the Minister say this process ends? Where at first only the French President spoke of a European army, D66, and D66, the Germans now speak openly about it. Is the Netherlands going to put a brake on this or are we really getting a sneak-in militarisation of the European project? I'd like a response from the Minister. Of course there are geopolitical developments that we are also concerned about, but the answer to this is not European military power policy as far as my group is concerned. The biggest geopolitical problem is perhaps the growing rivalry between the two superpowers China and the US, a rivalry that is also likely to grow under a President Biden. But the last thing that benefits the EU is being sucked into a new cold war. Better, Europe can set a good example when it comes to international cooperation and commitment to a global disarmament policy, just when there is a new arms race at risk. I hope that, alongside the EU, we can also use other international cooperation organisations, such as the UN, the Council of Europe and the OSCE. How does the Minister feel about this? Mr President, I am at the end of my speech. In order to ensure that there is not so much a nexit as an EU exit, the EU must now, in the view of my group, take a different turn. I have just tried to outline the contours of this other, more democratic and more social EU. I wonder what the Minister's view is on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The key question is: where is the EU? We are having this debate at this historic place in the Knight's Room, where in 1948, in this room, Winston Churchill first called for European cooperation. And it's another special moment for our country. Once again, all citizens are united in their vulnerability. Then on the ruins of the world war, now in prosperity, at least in our country, attacked by a pandemic. We lose loved ones and are caught by forces beyond our comprehension. The virus COVID-19 multiplys at random and spreads across borders, which also have no meaning for a virus. It is also a sharp and sudden confrontation with our own vulnerability and mutual dependence. This causes deep existential uncertainty in many people. We notice this also in the many reactions we receive after and during the covid debates in this house. Mr. Chairman. With the pandemic that we are now in, I wonder where the government is resisting in the sphere of prevention, coordination and joint action. I was just talking to Mr Van Apeldoorn about moving forward with the European Union in order to achieve something that could be beneficial to the public in the context of public health. It has just been asked during the general considerations. The Prime Minister was positive about it, then we read that he is not acting on it. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Not only is there a pandemic, but there is a triple crisis: there is a pandemic, there is Trump America and there is the climate crisis. Many of us follow closely what happens in America, the United States, during the American elections, in what was once an example of democracy. The U.S. federal government doesn't seem capable of tackling the pandemic. President Trump has withdrawn the United States from virtually all multilateral treaties, including the World Health Organisation, in the middle of the pandemic. How cynical can you be! But, Mr President, it has just been recalled: the United States, whoever is elected, will focus more on Asia and loosen the link with Europe. Europe needs to stop its own pants more and more. And as Mathieu Segers, the professor in Maastricht, wrote, it is actually the end of the "American century." Mr. Chairman. So it's not a business as usual anymore. A joint answer is needed. And where is the answer best to formulate? That's in Europe. The Security Advisory Council, well-knownly headed by Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, has recently recommended further defence cooperation. Something Mr Van Apeldoorn has just warned against. There are ten recommendations, one of which is this further cooperation. The other is the establishment of a European Security Council. I would like to hear from the Minister. There are ten recommendations which the government thinks of these two recommendations and when they are responded to. Mr. Chairman. In the midst of these crises, it is important to count our blessings, the blessings of European protection and civilisation. It is good news for my group that the new President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, in the State of the Union, is aware that in this triple crisis it is necessary for the EU to act consciously and actively. Mr. Chairman. While I am speaking here, the future seat for the next generations is again in the D66 group room today to remind us of our mission. The EU has been created to monitor that future, to help guard that future. As a peace project, the European Union is an insurance policy against a policy of hatred, intolerance and arbitrariness, and against excessive differences in prosperity and the exercise of power by large countries on this continent at the expense of the smaller ones. We have plenty of examples of that in history. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is very happy to pay an insurance premium for this. This applies to the majority of Dutch people. That's what every opinion poll shows. The majority of Dutch think so. Mr. Chairman. We are an entrepreneurial but also a social people, willing to show solidarity. Also in the corona pandemic it appeared how we missed social contacts and still miss travel. The contacts that we have and which have become possible in an open society, through increased prosperity, a better, not ideal, but better distribution of that prosperity and legal certainty that Mr Van Ballekom so passionately talked about. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all Member States. They've already come by, Hungary and Poland. In any case, here is the European Union's minimum set of standards. There is also the European Court of Justice. In addition to the Council of Europe and the Council of Human Rights, the European Court of Justice can also act in this regard. My party colleague Sophie in 't Veld has fought for years in the European Parliament for the rule of law squab. It's not just her merit, but we're ready now. It also comes along and the Netherlands has to pass the measuring bar. There are some surprising things in it. Mr. Chairman. It has just been mentioned, what will the EU do and what will the Dutch Government do against the further deterioration of the rule of law, in particular in Poland? We are talking about the position of women, and we have already talked about minority groups. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment, and encourage him to do so, because he does. Honor to all who deserve credit. Mr. Chairman. In that connection, a question. What is the latest state of the agreement on conditionality after the July summit? Mr Van Ballekom has just spoken about this. Over the past six months, the European Union has taken historic steps. A package of active economic support and support for medical costs and joint procurement has been put in place in an extremely short period of time. There is a decision on the extension of own resources, an issue that has been undisputed for years, a recovery fund and the European MFF for the next seven years. It's been discussed before. That is now in procedure with the European Parliament, it is not yet through. Question to the Minister: What is the status? Mr. Chairman. This summer, Chancellor Merkel again proved it: the progressive integration into the European Union of the 27 does not wait, which continues. And the UK's departure will even speed it up. Shockwise, with eye-catching deficits, ugly sometimes, with night-long sessions, that is, on balance, good for the Netherlands and the Dutch. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the outcome of that summit as far as it now stands. There is an EU full of ambition, with a new team, a new budget, a recovery fund, a Green Deal that we must hope will continue. But there are ambitions and a work programme. Mr President, that is Europe. Now: where is the Netherlands in the EU? Insulated and with a damaged reputation. Leadership was requested this spring and from this Prime Minister. He's shown that, absolutely, cap off. He felt perfect, he spoke to the country and took important measures. With that authority in his own country, the seniority he has in Europe as one of the longest-standing government leaders, the creativity that characterizes him, he could have been the leader of the constructive three, the constructive four, instead of playing Calimero now that others have started to attribute to us the dreary four. No, we chose that route ourselves. He's now known as Mr. No. He did not grasp that moment of leadership in Europe. The Dutch Government has reduced the major challenges we face in Europe to a matter of money, to a discussion of cost-effective accounting. All of Europe was in trouble, the ICUs were flooded, shops, pubs closed, businesses were heading for bankruptcy. In Bergamo the coffins drove through the streets, but the Netherlands did not give home and went as Uncle Dagobert to count his own money. And in the end we have been forced to compromise, the government has started to make good decoration with additional discounts. But this has not only been a bad political assessment, it is a lack of moral leadership. At the moment, the Dutch government should have reacted differently. No one can match what the minister proudly and satisfied looked back on his own performance last week in the General Political Reviews. I think that's wrong. The Dutch Government has taken a considerable risk, because this has had a lot of preparation at the MFF in particular, because this summit could fail. This summer, a lot of political capital has been wasted and we have cut back on the branch of the tree on which we ourselves sit. That's the metaphor I used last year. Mr. Chairman. How could this happen? As a D66 group, we are in favour of a European course and often you get the reproach that you have no regard for the Dutch interest. In this way I can identify two groups that would agree. That is both persistent and unfounded. There are two elements I would like to discuss. Firstly, the value of the European Union cannot be expressed in money. This is also about culture, it is about security, it is about development, education, travel, science, diversity. But if we are talking about money, then there should be no confusion about how that goes. Then I am talking about the points, what is going to go to the European budget and what is coming back? Here is a confusion of speech, because the Dutch government is consistent in its definition of the contribution to the European budget other than the 26 other Member States. To put it domestically: you are a member of an association of owners with 27 apartments, you get the annual bill and you say: I will calculate it differently and if that is not adjusted, I will vote against the maintenance budget. The Netherlands follows the same name and it is also exactly what it is called the accounting method. Then we come not only to a different calculation, but also to a different image of the public. That's the net net discussion. Mr. Chairman. That is called very nicely in the budget 'the perception cost'. But it matters a great deal, because Mr Van Ballekom has just spoken about the European Union having only a few own resources. One of these is Customs and the difference between charging customs collection fees or not is a difference between almost half of the payment to Europe. So just in front of the picture, if the port of Rotterdam is doing well, then the Dutch contribution goes up. But what are we doing there? We are collecting the European Union's own resources. It's not Dutch money at all, it's not Dutch money at all, it's the siphoning through of European money. We have also agreed on a discount. This is very interesting, I am not making this up either, you can read it in the report of the General Court, Focus on the net payment position of the Netherlands. It's also about the other side. Well, my question is, what comes in? That doesn't all go to the state budget. This goes to the Structural Funds, which goes to citizens, which goes to businesses, so both the flow back and forth is a calculation that gives the wrong picture. I quote the General Court, which says: 'It can strengthen this one-sided view of the European Union'. So it has been a very important commitment to the negotiations. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the government whether it can better picture this. I have just quoted three studies in Mr Van Ballekom's speech. These are all different investigations by foreign institutions, including the Bertelsmann Stiftung. I think it would be so sensible for the Dutch view on the benefits of the European Union for the planning agencies to carry out an objective investigation and therefore identify the disadvantages, which would be the limitations, perhaps also the restrictions that Mr Van Apeldoorn wants to impose in the internal market. That also costs money. You're the coordinating director, so I'd like to make that request to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u158	Mr Backer criticizes the lack of interest in the Dutch Government's attitude at the July summit. He rightly points out that the benefits of the Netherlands as a country of membership of the European Union go far beyond the net net debate. I agree with him. However, if he criticises this greed, the Prime Minister will speak on behalf of the entire government. And in the government are also Mr Backer's kindred spirits. So I assume that this attitude, which was put forward by the Prime Minister, has also had the support of the other ministers, including the ministers of his own party. I would like to put that question to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u159	Mr Koole has been involved in politics for some time now, and of course the answer is yes. The cabinet speaks with one mouth. These general considerations are to be considered. These are my colleagues in the House of Representatives who, of course, exercise direct control over them. I see two things. I note that the discussion on the other side of the Binnenhof has turned out to be a sort of group think. Everyone is talking about being more Eurosceptic than the other. The groups of the VVD and the CDA participate in this. This means that the government has to relate to the Chamber and has apparently made the assessment in order to do so. I'm very unhappy about that. Last week in the General Reviews, my group leader Annelien Bredenoord said the same. Some things are good, some things we support, others are not; they are not good. This is one of those subjects. Perhaps I can add that I would rather say it now than after four years of rule and then present a new election programme and regret everything, as Mr Asscher did. I would rather say now that I think this is a point on which we are critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u160	Of course, the First Chamber has its own position in assessing cabinet policy. That's for sure. But it is the policy of the entire cabinet. I see Mr Backer's criticism of the cabinet's attitude on this point. We have also just heard a lot of criticism from the VVD about other aspects of the cabinet's stance on this Europe dossier in July. I am assuming, and I would ask Mr Backer to do so, that these points of criticism from D66, which Mr Backer is talking about here, as well as from the VVD, will return in the coming months to the debate on Europe and perhaps also in the cabinet formation. My question to Mr Backer is this. If so, will he at least try to get D66 to move towards Europe which is far less cheap than it was in July?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u161	Mr. Backer, please give me a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u162	As far as my limited influence extends, I will, of course, strive to do so. You may recall the debate I had in this Chamber with your colleague Sent, the chairman of your programme committee. At that time we also said to Minister Hoekstra: 'This is not going well; we should approach this differently'. That's consistent, that's what I'm saying. I think we're gonna keep doing that, too. I also think that this will be a very important point, even after this. For in the General Political Reviews it was said by a number of speakers that the differences are actually relatively small. That was in response to Mrs Faber's story. Well, I think there are a number of things that will have to be resolved in the spring. I understand the Labour Party wants to cooperate with the SP and GroenLinks. That'll bounce the ball back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u163	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Then I will go to Mr Van Ballekom for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u164	Mr. Chairman. I find it a bit annoying that D66, as a coalition party, considers the performance of the Netherlands to be a cheap act. How is that consistent with the fact that the Netherlands is still one of the most important net contributors? And how is it consistent with the fact that the Dutch Government has agreed to the 750 billion recovery programme? I would like to call those amounts anything but cheap. I find that more generous. That is why I also spoke about the solidarity of the Dutch Government, for which I have respect. Mr Backer referred to that report by the Court of Auditors on the Rotterdam effect. I've read that with interest. Europe's own resources system is very complicated. The Netherlands remains net contributor with or without Rotterdam effect, because we also have a Le Havre effect and a Hamburg effect and an Amsterdam effect. Moreover, the facilities of the Rotterdam port do not fall from the sky; they are created and facilitated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u165	What's your question, Mr. Van Ballekom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u166	That's what I was about to get, Mr. Chairman. My question to Mr Backer is whether he agrees with me that it would actually be much better to base the Dutch contribution simply and simply on a percentage of GNP, so that you are done with sugar levies and customs duties, which hopefully fall with the conclusion of the free trade agreements...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u167	Thank you. Then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u168	... and the VAT and whatever. Because that would make life simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u169	Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u170	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ballekom has just explained how Europe is financed. I also know Europe a little bit and you don't have to follow Arjan Lubach to understand that it's complicated. A simplification is therefore attractive, but probably not effective. I can't look over that. I know, however, that the share of GNP now, because of the crisis, is certainly going to fall structurally compared to own resources, which makes the discussion more complicated every seven years. Otherwise, I cannot see whether this would be the best solution. I'd rather think you'd give an organization you're in together a little more opportunities to provide own resources. I understand that Mr Van Ballekom, from his point of view, as I have just listened to him, will not be in favour of that. I'd tend to that, to be honest. Anyway, may I leave it at that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u171	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u172	One more point about Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u173	Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u174	What struck me in that report of the Court of Auditors is that there is no relationship between the cost of recovery and the reduction of 20% to 25% that we involve. So it's just a discount to let the Netherlands pay less. I thought that was remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u175	Very briefly, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u176	That is correct, that is indeed very correct. But I can also point out that Rotterdam is more and more a transit port, where nothing is collected, because it is simply collected in the country of destination. That is also a trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u178	I think that this discussion illustrates how good it would be if the government looked closely at the report of the General Court and also had an inquiry into the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u179	Mr Backer's firm words are still somewhat reminiscent. In his review of the nasty attitude of the Dutch government in the past six months, he talked about lack of moral leadership. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u180	I realise that this is quite a heavy term, but it is outlined at the moment in which we find ourselves. There is a pandemic in Europe and we have to solve the problems shoulder-to-shoulder, knowing that parts of Europe live far below the poverty line, with limited capacity for national governments to solve all this, where we are one of the most rich countries in Europe and the fifth largest country. Then I think we should not focus on a negotiating strategy, which is just about the money. Mr Van Ballekom rightly says: the outcome is different, but it is presented with an extremely economical mouth, because we would not have wanted it. So I see a lack of leadership at the time, while I have a great deal of confidence and respect for the Prime Minister and for how he does it in the Netherlands. I think he could have done that differently, together with the Foreign Minister who is preparing the MFF negotiations. It could have been different, and it should have been different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u181	Just a little more time. I suggest that we then let Mr Backer finish his story and then do the rest of the interruptions, if that can be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u182	Tough words stay heavy. The question then is what is the consequence of this by Mr Backer? What is the meaning of these words in this Chamber? What should we expect from D66 at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u183	Every word spoken has meaning. Mr Vendrik will be with us long enough. We're gonna come up with an incredible amount of discussions. Now an advance has been made on the own resources decision. We're going to deal with a lot of budgets. Europe is continuing, but at least I would like to mark this as a moment when I think that we, as the Netherlands, have not done well enough. And I hope that this could help to adjust the position, because if we continue to do so, we are in fact in constant decline in negotiations, when we are a country that could contribute to a forward-looking course. We are one of the founding fathers of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u184	Thank you. I'm gonna end this now. I suggest that you finish your speech and then there will certainly be room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u185	I would like to say a few words about the budget allocation. We have already mentioned it a little in the discussion with Mr Van Ballekom: that should of course have been much more in favour of science and the green and sustainable economy. I think it is also right to criticise Mr Ben Feringa, our Nobel Prize winner, who has also partly done his research with European money. There is also criticism of Pieter Duisenberg on behalf of the colleges. It could have been otherwise. Mr. Chairman. I want to end with "go ahead in Europe." That was actually my answer to Mr Vendrik's speech. Mr. Chairman. If this debate could contribute to an adjustment of the image among our citizens and other Member States, an active adjustment, so that the Dutch Government, with conviction, with historical awareness and with an optimistic vision, will promote the development of Europe... We can achieve that, too. We also see that we can achieve things. The Minister has achieved that he has been able to implement a European directive on the Magnitsky Act for which thanks and respect are due. This is an arrangement which prohibits people who commit human rights violations from entering Europe. Europe fits into a community of shared values. We appreciate the Minister's active role in this. Mr President, concluding. The European Union is a bastion of freedoms and human dignity. Let us express Churchill's thought in this house through cooperation and good will, and then by his allies, with important contributions from CDA and PvdA rulers in the past, from VVD rulers and sometimes from D66 rulers, to remain together in that blazing light in a rapidly falling darkness of autocracy, lawlessness and imperialist aggression of China and Russia, united in a Europe that can stand independently against the political decline of democracy in America and the unruly capitalism that prevails there. Let us be an active participant in this as Europe, as one of the three enterprising nephews, and of the three nieces, as my group members rightly pointed out, rather than the greedy Uncle Dagobert. We look forward to the answer and the exchange of views with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u186	Thank you, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u187	I have heard with interest how Mr Backer distances himself from the policy of his own government when it comes to the negotiations on the MFF and the recovery fund. He's talking about a lack of moral leadership. In my own contribution, I also drew attention to the refugee crisis in the Greek islands and the refusal of the Dutch Government, even after the fire in Camp Moria, to include 500 children. I was wondering where the shame was on the Minister's jaws. Will Mr Backer also qualify that as a lack of moral leadership of the coalition, of the current government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u188	There are, of course, many issues that we are not proud of, I also say in response to Mr Koole's point. On the other hand, I find... For years we look at a camp with 13,000 refugees and let's get past that. All of this focuses on one point of the recording of children. That's been a political exchange. It's not pretty, we know that. The government has also acknowledged that. It was complicated. I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u189	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u190	In the context of 'we are not waiting for four years', as Mr Backer de PvdA, Mr Asscher blames, and the withdrawal of wrong choices: was this the right choice that was made or not? I just wanted to get that straight. Does Mr Backer say that next time it really has to be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u191	It will always be very risky, except for Mr Schalk, to talk about morality in politics. This isn't pretty. We have already said a great deal about this, and my colleague Mr Bredenoord has said something about it, just like Mr Stienen. We'd have liked it to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u192	Thank you, Mr. Backer. There is a short question from Mr Schalk. He was mentioned, so that was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was, of course, a little challenged to speak with Mr Backer about morality. I don't think there's anything wrong with morality in politics. That would be my first question to Mr Backer: there is nothing wrong with that, is there? The second question is as follows. If you position the leadership around the financial side of Europe as a lack of moral leadership because you may have paid close attention to the money and on the other hand say 'we must also uphold values in Europe', I note that one of the values can also be financial robust, as well as some austerity and also appealing to other Member States on their own responsibility. With the 750 billion, I have a bit of a feeling that there is a risk that we would all have to pay the debts of the southern states.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u194	Mr Backer, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u195	I may not have expressed myself clearly enough. I didn't think morality was in the penny. I believe that, as far as the overall package and the moment when we have to make choices are concerned, we are narrowing the debate down to the penny. Then austerity becomes the main point of virtue, but there are more virtues than austerity alone. That is at the heart of my moral view. I hope I have answered your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you. I'm afraid I have to finish. I would like to give the floor to Mr Knapen on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u197	Mr. Chairman. Politics seems a bit cynical sometimes. People need to grab media moments, catch flies, debit firmities. That is why, at least, I hope, it is a good thing that we are talking about Europe here today. Here we don't have to do it for publicity, because usually everyone outside this room misses what we discuss on these occasions. This is an important prerequisite for a more nuanced political debate, namely that exchange of arguments should not suffer from the need to score. That being so, I would like to dwell on the word'sovereignty'. That keeps popping up like a kind of catch in the debate on Europe. Usually it's about surrendering sovereignty versus retaining sovereignty or getting it back. "Take back control," as the Brexiters called it. If you dig something, you'll soon find out that no one actually knows exactly what it is. Being sovereign is like being the boss of yourself. Because each country wants to determine the course of things for itself, you can say that every country wants to be sovereign as much as possible, but the other way around it is with countries like with people: you cannot live on your own. So to be sovereign, you have to do things together and pool sovereignty. That's when all the confusion begins. 'Cause take the Netherlands from before the war. That was a neutral country without alliances. How sovereign can you actually have it in the world, you'd say. But that same side country had to do all kinds of things again and again that the sovereign didn't really feel like doing, because it wasn't that sovereign. We had to censor the media, for example, because we didn't want to annoy a neighboring foreign head of state, listening to the name Adolf Hitler. We couldn't afford that luxury as a small country without allies. We had to turn in the gold standard so cherished by us, otherwise we threatened to go bankrupt. 'Should', I say, because the outside world was going to use new monetary rules that we didn't really like at all. We had to negotiate trade quotas with abroad. Sovereign as we were, we actually didn't feel anything for that, but we had to, because we wanted to have food and stove. I would just like to say that sovereignty is an elusive concept, especially in our country, which, as few other countries in the world, is so intertwined with foreign affairs. In my view, a country's sovereignty is linked to its capacity to act. Is a country capable of acting, influencing and concluding the corresponding compromises, with the aim of promoting the prosperity and well-being of its own population as much as possible? In today's world, capacity for action is the practical core of everyday sovereignty. Also well-understood self-interest therefore relates the pursuit of being boss in his own home. Mr. Chairman. It is our firm belief that our country's ability to act is best served in the European arena. There we find sufficient scale and equalism to protect and promote our interests and values in the world. Here are our allies, and here we have influence. The threats to our way of life in this part of Europe do not need to be outlined in detail here. They are well known. Whether it is the economic, political advance of China, Russian revanchism, the struggle for raw materials, the security of supply of products, the struggle for spheres of influence in Africa, the instability of that continent or the dependence of Silicon Valley, all over the world there are forces that seriously violate our way of life. Everywhere it is about forces that are too great for us alone to face them. People want protection from this, and we cannot offer it alone. That is a kind of protection that we should not be fooling our citizens into believing that we can deliver it on our own. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes people are enthusiastic about Switzerland's paradise independence. I remember how PVV leader Wilders enthusiastically tweeted about the outcome of a Swiss referendum in February 2014. A narrow majority of Swiss citizens did not want immigrants to work in Switzerland in that referendum. No more immigrants. And do you know what happened to the outcome of that referendum? The answer is unheard of, namely nothing. Nothing at all. In order to be able to survive, Switzerland has more than 100 agreements with the European Union and, logically, this includes the obligation not to shop unilaterally in that package, because the guillotine falls on all the thousands of agreements. Let me give another example: Norway. There the Nobel Prize Committee decided ten years ago to award the Nobel Peace Prize to the Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo. China was angry and Norway was punished. Suddenly Norwegian salmon was banned from China for veterinary reasons and further chicanes followed. The sequel is significant. First, we saw Norway's voting behaviour in the United Nations becoming more friendly to China. Norway subsequently supported Chinese observer status at the Arctic Council. Norwegian politicians solemnly and neatly promised not to receive the Dalai Lama and they promised not to take any more action against the one-China policy. That may be understandable opportunism, but it is also something that happens to you earlier when you are alone as a small country. Mr. Chairman. In order to keep this part of the world democratic and stable, efforts by countries such as Germany and France are of particular importance. We will certainly not always agree with them on what they want and do, but as soon as they join forces, this weight will be on the scale, with Germany in particular having the means and France in particular having the reflexes to manifest themselves. Their support is crucial when the European Commission comes up with plans to protect investment, take climate action, rebut China, intervene in Africa, introduce a trade boycott or build something that looks like a start of a common defence. This requires a constructive role of Dutch diplomacy. Do we want to realize that? Do we want to have that ambition and share it with our citizens? To avoid misunderstandings, there are enough things in the European Union to be extremely critical about. Italy's budgetary policy is a tragedy, although it is worth noting that every Dutchman earns €1.516 a year from the EU and every Italian barely half, says Bertelsmann Stiftung.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u198	I would like to return to the previous block of Mr Knapen's speech, as always interesting. Mr Knapen says that we cannot deal with the problems in the world alone and that, if you are alone, you cannot resist those forces. Together, you're stronger. He gave a number of convincing examples in the context of a speech on sovereignty. He then concludes that, given these major cross-border problems, we must pool our sovereignty, so we must share it. The word "sovereignty" is often used in the context of the EU. I use it myself, but I prefer to talk about democracy. I fully agree with Mr Knapen that not only should we stand up for it, that it is a good thing that we work together and that it is necessary, but does pooling, so sharing sovereignty also mean pooling our democracy or transferring a democracy to a European level? And if so, what would Mr Knapen think that would look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u199	It is a bit of a political discussion about the tension between integration, democracy and national interest. You'll always have to look for a balance there. If the Dutch Parliament, the Dutch House of Representatives, sends our cabinet on a mission because the Dutch Parliament, so our democracy, wants and thinks so, we also know that the Dutch Cabinet will then come back from Brussels with something else, because the rest of Europe will not always act in the image and likeness of what we want in the Netherlands. Even a democracy on a national scale will therefore always force compromise with other countries and with other democracies. The question is always whether these compromises are acceptable within a democracy or not, but it is not so that you can simply say that a Dutch democratic proposal will be absolutely the last word in the European Union. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u200	I fully agree with Mr Knapen that compromises should eventually be made in international cooperation, including within the EU, and that you cannot always get what you want as an individual Member State. But of course it is something else if you say that in the context of pooling our sovereignty, we must veto all kinds of things. Then it is not a matter of compromise, but of being overruled by a qualified majority. Is that the direction Mr Knapen says we should go further? Of course, there is already qualified majority voting in the EU, but there is also talk of extending it. Then my question is where that ends and what about the democratic legitimacy of that supranational European decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u201	It's too simple to give a black and white answer to that. This cabinet is, in my view, quite rightly in favour of qualified majority voting in parts of European foreign policy. If you always have to wait for Cyprus or Malta before you can take a boycott measure against a country, you will paralyze yourself. Is that a surrender of sovereignty? If I follow my definition, where sovereignty is actually more a matter of influence and ability to act than of generating the suggestion that you are the boss, then that is surrendering sovereignty. In practical terms, I do not think that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u202	Thank you. I propose a brief closure, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u203	Yeah, and finally, I'd like to build on this. Mr Knapen referred to the political debate on the assumption that far-reaching economic integration could also undermine national democracy. Of course, as a political scientist, I've been triggered. I see the chairman looking for an entire college. No, there won't be, but I still want to ask a question. Look, there are cross-border problems, such as migration, climate and so on, for which we need European policies and European solutions. But can Mr Knapen also imagine that with economic integration in Europe, with the internal market, we have sometimes gone so far as to have created problems and undermined our national capacity to act in a way that may not have been so desirable in retrospect? And shouldn't you be able to find a solution in that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u204	A brief answer, Mr. Knapen, and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u205	Not to spread out for long: I think it's obvious that where you integrate things, things go well and things go wrong. So things also go wrong, but the basic tone of my argument is that with that integration your position to represent and defend your own prosperity and well-being is ultimately better off than when you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u206	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u207	Mr. Chairman. As I said, despite this basic attitude, this does not mean that you take everything for granted, certainly not. There are plenty of things that are certainly not in order within the European Union. An Italian public debt of more than 160% is really a great concern. I ask the Minister whether he sees it that way and whether he can offer any perspective. And then there are some serious concerns outside the economic domain. The messy and incoherent handling of migration and refugee issues is striking, but also the absence of pan-European surveillance of cross-border black money flows. Even more serious is perhaps how countries such as Poland and Hungary now deal with the rule of law. This cabinet is right to raise this issue, because it is becoming increasingly urgent. Dutch judges no longer know whether, for example, they can still rely on the Polish judicial system. This is unprecedented and unheard of in the Union. What Mr Van Ballekom said was taken from my heart: how are we going to get out of here, I ask the Minister. We also have concerns about certain elements of the European climate plan. How wise is it for the European Commission to be forced to intervene when we are doing our best to include voters in a climate plan one step at a time? If such a Commission approach is not counterproductive, I ask the Minister. But all this criticism must not conceal the urgent need for our European environment to maintain our way of life, our interests and values in front of an increasingly assertive outside world. If we do not include our citizens in this, and if we concentrate mainly on what is not right, then I fear that in the long term we will reap what we sow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u208	With regard to the violation of the principles of the rule of law, Mr Knapen reiterated Mr Van Ballekom's question to the Minister of "How are we going to get out of this?'. Can Mr Kapen himself formulate a start of an answer on how he would like to get out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u209	I can formulate a start to an answer, but not an end to an answer, because that is what the executive is for. I have been a great supporter of conditionality from the outset in terms of Poland and Hungary, but we would like to mention one or two more, at least the same weight as the conditionality we are talking about in terms of how we deal with the financial problems of the countries of southern Europe. I understand that the European Council negotiations on the financial framework in July lasted a day or three and a half and that the last hour and a half remained on this subject. That might give a bit of a priority in that company that wouldn't have been entirely mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u210	Thank you. Mr. Vendrik, finally? No. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u211	The key question we are faced with is: do we really know what we want with the European Union? Sometimes it seems like we know what we don't want in the world. The International Research and Policy Review Directorate, IOB, recently accused this cabinet of denying signals from a changing world. The Tibetan prayer mill of NATO before and after NATO remains the main hold. The fact that the world has changed seems to be secondary. Like we don't want to face the fact that the world has changed. In a way, this reflex can be explained historically: it was the trauma of the Second World War that drove us into the arms of an Atlantic alliance led by the United States, but we were of course traditionally a distant country. NATO under American leadership was a sort of umbrella under which we could hide in Europe. As before the war, we did not have to choose between the countries around us, not between France, Germany or Great Britain. Certainly when Britain became a member of the European Community, everything was right for us. We balanced a little bit in between. The fact that that time might pass brings embarrassment to many, even here. Now what? We're obviously looking. The idea of an alliance with the Scandinavian countries or some kind of Hanseatic League is sometimes played. It's okay. But honesty also requires saying that the commons probably lack geography, history, economy, security. This minister mentioned a different route last year. He talked about changing coalitions with changing partners. This has a transactional character: diplomacy as an annual market where, depending on the circumstances, you move your stall and build it somewhere else. But that's actually less appropriate for building allegiance. Such a thing requires more solidity, which sometimes also requires support for each other when it does not immediately, transactionally, brings its own advantage. We should have a more constructive role and, as I am convinced, we should be able to play the role of the main players in Europe more often. A more mediocre role, too. To contribute to Europe's combined ability in the world. That is also our interest. In the end, it is a question that has become more urgent now that the British have left the Union and the Americans are working on other things and indeed remain: are we trying to be on the sidelines as many spectators as possible, conveniently maneuvering to minimize the disadvantages and to reap the benefits as much as possible? A kind of Singapore on the North Sea. Or do we share our responsibility for a strong core in Europe and stick our necks out for it? Our group has the answer, but we also realize that we have an almost existential conversation in our country about this now that the trusted Anglo-Saxon world is moving a little further away from us. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to give a sway to this urgent debate on sovereignty, solidarity and well-understood self-interest in Europe. I look forward to the exchange of views with this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u212	As always, Mr Knapen has given an intrusive consideration. He concludes with a cliffhanger, namely that his group has a view, but he keeps it from us for a while. Do you think you could light up a little bit of the veil? It is about the future and the commitment in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u213	That might be possible, but in order to do it correctly, I would have to recite it from the first page to the end, because it states what our group thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u214	With all due respect, it is a reflection, an analysis, of the development in Europe which I recognise to some extent. Then you come to the search for solutions. It's not without relevance that I ask the question. Where I was just talking about the Netherlands isolated, you can see in all foreign magazines that the Netherlands and Prime Minister Rutte are being portrayed as a new Cameron: gradually losing and erode the basis of the Dutch position by choosing a bet. Of course, the position of the CDA is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u215	Mr. Chairman. To quote myself, we are in favour of playing a constructive, mediation role and not a sideline role. This can be further developed in many areas, but that is at the heart of our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u216	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u217	Mr President, I have noted it. I guess I should have listened better, but it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u218	I have a brief clarification question. I have also listened with great interest to Mr Knapen's speech. Of the concept of sovereignty, which is usually a bit focused on independence, the essence of the state and so on, he has given an equivalent, namely that that would be the ability to act. But isn't that a bit of a hollowing out of that wonderful concept of sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u219	If we assume that there once existed a clear definition of sovereignty, and perhaps there was, at the beginning of absolutism, it is a hollowing out. Simply because technology, economy, communication, travel have made that also autarkie and total independence and autonomy hardly exist anymore. The fact that this intertwinedness is a fact for us all, has consequences for how you define the word "sovereignty."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u220	I'm trying to understand and follow that. I also think I understand what Mr Knapen means, but in our ordinary language, we talk about what really belongs to you in our sovereignty. But at the moment when we are going to use it as that capacity for action, which is caused by the fact that we are actually dealing with a lot more states in all kinds of fields, you should actually choose another word to prevent you from losing that sovereignty, where you also find a certain solidity in it. I mean, the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u221	What really matters to me is that we should step out of the framework in which Mr Schalk uses this word. For then we are talking about regaining sovereignty or surrendering sovereignty, which suggests that sovereignty still exists as it may have existed in the past. My thesis is: that is not so, the dependencies are of such a nature.That is why I mentioned the example of Switzerland and the example of the Netherlands before the war: that what you think you are sovereign of is so relative that you do not want to discuss with a catchword as sovereignty, get back or deliver, because you then put people on the wrong foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u222	Mr. Schalk, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u223	Yeah, rounding it up. It was a question of clarification for me and Mr Knapen clarified it with his vision. I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u224	Those are bright spots. Mr Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u225	Thank you to Mr Knapen for a fine speech on the relative importance of sovereignty. Who's that argument for? And as far as it is intended for the government, to what extent does the Dutch Government's attitude in relation to the recovery fund, the joint intervention on corona, fit in with Mr Knapen's speech here this spring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u226	We have the discussion here, as I said at the beginning, once a year or once every two years. I see, and I take as an example Mr Frentrop, who started with Willem van Oranje, a somewhat unfortunate parallel, because it was actually a bit the other way around. Anyway, that's okay. He brought up sovereignty. You can also see in the discussion about the Brexit that has not completely passed the Netherlands that it is about take back control, sovereignty. So this is meant to broaden the discussion; ideally I would say 'to enrich', but that is rather arrogant, so others should say that if it were, with some comments that make us actually having an impure debate in this way. So this is meant for everyone who is debating here. And one of them will say, "I already knew." The other will say: it's old time. The third will say: interesting. And the fourth will say, no matter what he says, I'm gonna do it differently. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u227	We need to get to the next speaker. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u228	Mr. Chairman. What would the Foreign Minister say here? I'm just saying, what's the political port? Because we have an open political debate, even though no one listens to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u229	We're listening to each other here, aren't we, Mr. Chairman? The portee is that if we continue to discuss in the dichotomy of retention versus surrender, putting ourselves and each other on the wrong foot, given the reality of the world we are in. That's the wallet. For those who find that interesting enough, I would say: him who fits it, put the shoe on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u230	Finally, Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u231	Mr President, I did not intend to interrupt, but I hear from Mr Knapen that his speech was largely intended to explain to me what sovereignty is and its limitations. So I'm gonna have to respond for a while. Mr Knapen actually says: we should stop talking about sovereignty, there is no point anymore, that is an old-fashioned concept, you have to talk about capacity for action, what we can do in the world, we can't do that much on our own. But I would not want to throw that word away immediately and use that new word, because sovereignty is something quite different from capacity for action. Sovereignty is autonomy and autonomy comes from Greek. That means you live under your own laws. Then, of course, your freedom of action is limited, because if you live under your own laws between two great neighbours, of course. But you do have your autonomy, you have your sovereignty. If we were a province of Germany, perhaps our freedom of action would be greater, but then we would have no autonomy, then we would have no sovereignty. So I would object to Mr Knapen's proposal to change the word'sovereignty' to 'freedom of action', because that is something quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u232	Mr. Chairman. This is a statement and a communication, so I do not think I have to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u233	I was intrigued by Mr Knapen's historical speech, particularly the comparison with the 1930s when, according to Mr Knapen, we were sovereign as a country. What came to mind: nothing really changed 100 years later, because, as you know, Colijn brought back the gold standard in the twenties. The English did so, and in the footsteps of Great Britain, the Netherlands did so. Then the British swore that they would not leave the gold standard. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank, Vissering, called the President of the Bank of England, and he swore: no, we're not getting out. To do so one day later, which led to hundreds of millions of losses for De Nederlandsche Bank. President Vissering had to resign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u234	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u235	My question is whether my observation is that there has not been much change in the way Dutch diplomacy acts in this sort of thing, including vis-à-vis the EU, and that the Netherlands often fails to defend its own interests and does not properly estimate them. Does Mr Knapen agree with me that this parallel was there at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u236	Mr. Knapen, I'd like a quick answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u237	Yes, Mr President, this is going to be relatively complex. The self-interest is always, as is the national interest, a label that you can put on all kinds of drinks, because everyone will define it differently. If you say that the Dutch interest is not always adequately represented, it has to do with the fact that you may define the self-interest in a different way from Mr Vendrik. In that sense, it's always a quest that never ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u238	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u239	I am more concerned that the assessment made by the Netherlands of how other countries operate is often different from reality. That is something that we saw in the past and which then led to very great consequences. We can see that now, I think, also in the recovery fund. Where other countries see this fund more as a transactional event, the Netherlands thinks: we make some rules and everyone keeps to it. But in practice, unfortunately, that is not how it works. Does Mr Knapen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u240	Finally, Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u241	You are in a hurry, Mr President, I understand, but this is a very interesting question. I was surprised that the Dutch Government seemed surprised by the fact that Germany suddenly agreed to that recovery fund. You've seen that coming for months. And why? Because at the end of the day it is German interest to keep the matter together, regardless of whether they are excited about it or think it is a bad idea. Keeping things together is an authentic German drive when it comes to their position in Europe. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u242	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to keep up the appearance of European democracy, citizens may vote once every five years so that elected MEPs can settle comfortably in the European Parliament, which is described by the Prime Minister as a party committee looking for a party. This was a scoop on top of the statement made earlier by Prime Minister Rutte here in the Senate that the European Parliament is not really a parliament. Freely translated into his PVVs: a fake parliament. Mr. Chairman. Most of the power within the EU is in the Council of European Heads of Government, where France and Germany dominate. This actually makes the national elections in Germany and France much more important than the European elections. And let us be honest: the EU is just a German-French project. Together, what they have not been able to do in the past alone, they can dominate Europe. They wallow in an incestuous system, in which it is decided delicious among themselves, as much as possible out of sight of the stupid people. In this way, the guilder was taken away without a referendum. That cost at least 10% of our power. Despite a referendum, the European Constitution was dragged through. The D66 Minister for the Interior, as soon as she had the chance, quickly flushed the consultative referendum down the drain to avoid this kind of unpleasant situation in the future. According to Minister Ollongren, the referendum resulted mainly in confusion, and we already have so many confused people. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the transfer of sovereignty continues steadily in the back chambers. But yes, oil always comes out. Before that happens, the minds of the people must be made compliant as soon as possible by means of indoctrination and language manipulation. With all kinds of fantasy expressions, political correctness is plugged into the brains. For example, "multicultural society" will be an enrichment and "Islamic" peace. Mr. Chairman. The hunger for power of the European elite knows no borders. While we are no longer allowed to travel during corona, the boundaries for lucky seekers remained wide open. This allowed a Tunisian terrorist to travel through the Italian island of Lampedusa to the Basilique Notre-Dame in Nice in September, inspired by Allah, to commit an attack in which two women were ritually cut throat, the sexter was stabbed to death and six others were wounded with a knife. On the same day a church was stormed in Vienna by 50 Turks. Yes, such a celebration of Muhammad's birthday seems to bring a lot of loose. Yesterday, the centre of Vienna was a war zone. This was barely two weeks after the decapitation of the Parisian teacher Samuel Paty. We shouldn't think it's gonna pass us by. Everyone will remember the tram terrorist in Utrecht, who shot four people in cold blood. When you, as a young hero at risk for your own life, bring a young woman to safety, tell on TV that the shooter had called "Allahoe akbar," you get a stream of hate reactions. Apparently, you can't tell the unpleasant truth. And in the meantime, Erdogan is steadily expanding his hate network. His long arm reaches into 147 mosques. Add 500 jihadists who according to the AIVD are free and you have a ticking time bomb. It is therefore no coincidence that anti-Semitism is increasing alarmingly. While the elite cry crocodile tears at the holocaustal theories, it now finances organisations in the form of NGOs associated with the Terrorist Organisation Volksfront for the Liberation of Palestine, abbreviated the PFLP. This terrorist organisation, in turn, encourages anti-Semitism through the same NGOs. Such hypocrisy. Mr. Chairman. Immigration increases the internal consumer market and reduces net wages. Population growth is the walhalla of business. It is no wonder that the multinationals and the political elite love Brussels. The more consumers, the higher the gross domestic product. And that at the expense of the individual prosperity, well-being and freedom of the ordinary citizen is for them secondary. The bill that has to be paid to the right, but especially to the left, is simply deposited with the citizens. In Northern European countries in particular, the situation is very serious. Then the workers should not have too much time to think, otherwise they will mutine. So saddle them with as many problems as possible. Frighten them; make them insecure. Let them plow to make ends meet. After the elite first gave the Islamic caliphate a large job in Europe, the Socialists Timmermans and his buddy Samsom were put in position to submit us to their climate caliphate. After closing the Green Deal, the large green graws can rise to unprecedented heights. In the Brussels catacombs, it is already said that when the Green Deal comes to maturity, it becomes even bigger than the euro. Mr. Chairman. Billions of euros will be removed from Dutch citizens, at local, national and European level. At least 30% of the MFF and the corona recovery fund, together with 1,800 billion, should contribute to the climate targets for 2030 and 2050. Citizens will be driven to despair with even higher costs and burdened with even higher debts to make their homes gas-free, for example. They're not gonna heat up, they're gonna impoverishe. Slowly their property is taken away and they are ripened for the partnership. In order to pay the towering bill of billions of euros, the European elite also wants to tell us how to invest our hard-earned money. The investments should be greened using the ESG factors, which represent: environment, social and governance. The higher the ESG content of the investment, the more sustainable or more politically correct that investment is. Investment funds and pension funds should already incorporate ESG factors into their policies. I can give you a note that these rules will be drawn increasingly tighter, so that EU-disgraceful activities will be virtually impossible in the long term. Already, the German EIB President Werner Hoyer is refusing to finance not only nuclear power stations, but also gas pipelines. This while most EU countries are subsidised to switch to gas and nuclear power plants are a solution to their fantastic CO problem. The dance for our billions continues steadily. The ECB is also increasingly becoming a green religious pharisee and wants to buy more green bonds itself. In Lagarde, the President of the ECB, a red and green comrade was found. It focuses not only on financial policy, but also on climate policy and social inequality. In theory, this unelected president also has unlimited money at his disposal. This makes her a very dangerous threat to our prosperity and our way of life. This, combined with Von der Leyen's intention to abolish the right of veto in social policy, taxation and energy, completes the drama. To what extent is the Minister prepared to go along with this European grievance? Does the Minister, for example, allow the European Commission to determine our minimum wage or does he force us to introduce a basic income? What about the European guarantee on WW benefits? Will the Minister hand over veto rights in the areas of social policy, taxation and energy? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u244	First of all, I want Mrs Faber to realise that we naturally reject what is happening in the world, including in Vienna and in all the places she has mentioned. It's unbelievable. We strongly condemn that. So let me at least say that. You then switch and say that the plot is actually going to be very large, but that the most dangerous now is Mrs Lagarde of the ECB. I find it difficult to see her as a dangerous player on the European stage after this introduction. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u245	It seems to me that it is difficult to explain Mr Backer's thinking. I think my thinking about Mrs Lagarde is clear. She just has our money at her disposal. In fact, she has such a powerful position... Yeah, that seems pretty obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u246	I object to the fact that she has our money. So it is the European Central Bank. The Netherlands Bank has a different position. It's not our money. Then let me put a specific question to it, so that perhaps we understand each other better. What is the overall size of the EU budget? In what order of magnitude do we speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u247	The last time that was just over 1,000 billion, for the next MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u248	This is therefore less than the total capital of Dutch pension funds. That's about 1,200 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u249	Correction: 1,600 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u250	I'm just asking for the proportion of things. It is less than 1% contribution from the Dutch citizen. You are drawing a picture of the Dutchman who is crooked to create money for Europe, but it is very little in proportion. In fact, if the debate on the net contribution were to take place slightly differently, it would give an even better picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u251	What's your question, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u252	My question is whether Mrs Faber also wants to take this proportionality of amounts when she talks about a dangerous President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u253	Of course I'd like to bring all sorts of things, but actually Mr. Backer is the elite incarnate. He's talking about 1,000 billion like it's nothing. That 1,600 billion of pension funds is a huge sum. You probably don't seem to like it. You should tell that to someone who has to live off a minimum wage of €800 to €900 per month. Well, you really don't make friends with that, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u254	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u255	I object to this very wonderful comparison of the minimum wage and that I would be the elite. I understand; it's your earning model politically, but I'm far from it. I stand here to defend all interests, including those of your constituents. I think you underestimate the level of support for the European Union, including among your constituents. More than 80% of the Dutch support the European Union and would like the European Union to have powers over the issues of interest to them, such as migration, climate and energy. Mr President, this was not a question, but a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u256	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u257	Mr President, may I comment on this for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u258	Go ahead. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u259	I am surprised that the PVV voters will not vote for D66. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u260	I'd like to ask Mrs Faber about math and, above all, about Mr. Backer's math. He says we shouldn't see things out of proportion. The European budget is 1,075 billion and the Dutch pension funds have 1,400 billion, so that is almost the same. Does Mrs Faber agree with me that this comparison really does not make any sense, because the assets of these pension funds are assets that have been built up, whereas the European budget receives 1,000 billion each year? That pension capital has been built up in 40 years. So does Mrs. Backer agree with me that Mr. Faber's calculation doesn't say anything about proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u261	I'm not Mrs. Backer. I'm Mrs Faber. That would be a very special construction in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u262	Mr Frentrop had already corrected himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u263	I'm doing it gender-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u264	I've been married to Mr Faber for 38 years. So I'll keep it that way. Anyway, thank you for your interruption and I fully agree with that. Of course, it is citizens' money in both cases, but I agree with you that the 1,600 billion of pension funds have been spared by pensioners themselves and that the other money is for the celebration of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u265	Thank you very much, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u266	I need to see where I've been because of this interruption, that I don't forget a bit...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u267	You were almost at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u268	... because then you'd miss something, of course. Mr. Chairman. We're not here yet. The corona recovery fund is worth 750 billion, of which 390 billion is given to the failing Member States and the rest in the form of a loan. For example, Italy, with a large black money circuit estimated at 310 billion, receives no less than 208 billion out of 750 billion. That would be a good way to reduce the planned income tax. To finance this bacchanal, the European Commission is simply out of line. She's going to borrow 750 billion on the capital market. The Member States are the guarantors, and so are we. Apart from the fact that the European Commission has no competence at all, this money flow really is not going to solve the corona crisis. The question to the Minister is therefore: is this government really going to transfer these additional powers to the European Union? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The money may be plotting against the plinths in Brussels, yet Von der Leyen is aware that she is waving the scepter over a weak empire. It may have a large internal market and the euro, but negotiating with a bat in your hand is a lot easier. It is therefore not surprising that Von der Leyen indicated that we must develop strong power, or a European army. The mighty Franco-German ash supports her. Merkel points out that we need to create an EU intervention unit. Not that they have the intention of guarding the borders with it. No, don't be silly. According to Macron, it's a good way to intervene in North Africa and the Middle East. So it is not about protecting the EU's territory, it is about expanding. It is therefore no coincidence that von der Leyen also wants to abolish the right of veto on foreign policy. And, Mr. President, dictators with an army force are asking for accidents. It is rarely the case that democratic countries attack each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u269	I suggest that you finish your speech, because I see that it is almost finished. Then we can do the interruptions afterwards, if you agree, Mr. Backer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u270	As the political elite is gaining more and more power, more and more power is being taken away from the people. The huge tax burden and regulatory burden are increasing the pressure on SMEs. Our farmers and fishermen are also gradually being devastated by increasingly suffocating rules. As a citizen, you'll only have a job with the government or a multinational that will set up your life together: what you eat, how much energy you use, how many miles you can drive, or you can still fly and what you can think. And those tricky populists you take to court, demonize and shut you out. Their supporters are blackmailing you financially by threatening to take their jobs. How much longer are we gonna take this? Why are we being led to this European slaughter? Why are we being robbed of our freedom? It is high time we got out of that madly runaway European train before it derails even further, and we escaped through the emergency exit. There is no other way out of taking back our sovereignty and setting up our own lives. We shouldn't be afraid. Fear is a bad counselor. We must take back our country and our freedom. The only exit is a nexit. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u271	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr. Backer. Oh, you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u272	Probably already answered his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u273	Thank you. Mr. Backer. Then we'll have to take off the cap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u274	Yeah, I challenged him a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u275	I just thought Mrs Faber and I were getting together, but with this bouncer, I don't think it is. I still have one more question for her. If coordination of the vaccine against COVID-19 or coordination of other health care matters, which your party is working for, were to be established at European level, would you reject it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u276	Mrs Faber, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u277	Mr President, these are like-dan questions. Let's see how that goes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u278	A lot's happened already. I was wondering if the nexit you are advocating is so important that you would even reject a European contribution, coordination or aid because it is not Dutch concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u279	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u280	We'll see about that. I'm not getting ahead of myself. There's no record of it yet. We'd better see if there's a vaccine like that. Generally, it takes years. So I'm not going to make any statements about that right now. There's so much that can change in those years. I'm not gonna do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-3.u281	Thanks to Mrs Faber. For the Acts, the following. Of all the terms you have mentioned, some of which are on the edge, there was one that is really not acceptable. That is the term 'fake parliament'. I'm not giving you the floor anymore. You know that the President of the House of Representatives does not accept that term. You know that my predecessor did not accept this term either, and I do not accept it either, because it insults democratic representatives of the people, and not just in Europe. You are also insulting your colleagues here and yourself and also the Minister who has taken the trouble to come here. We are not a fake parliament, and I ask you to stop using that term in future contributions. Thank you.
