ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u1	I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u2	Thank you, Mr President. From the very beginning, the Minister assured us, once again spontaneously or upon request, that such a measure would be implemented in close consultation with the sector. That is why we have always supported this line. Only now is a feed measure proposed, a kind of protein ration for animals, contrary to the views of those concerned, despite the fact that, as far as we can see, realistic alternatives have been put on the table. That's rubbing. That makes a little angry, I'll say very hypothermia. We pold ourselves dull, but when it comes to the nitrogen states we have to and the farmer will pay the price. That cannot be true: a measure that threatens to affect the welfare of animals, which vets indicate. That's weird. This cannot be done and that has led to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to pursue the proposed enforcement regime;]] [[Whereas, according to experts, the proposed feed regime will have harmful effects on the health of vulnerable cows and calves and may lead to an increase in nitrogen emissions;]] [[Whereas the nitrogen space created by the temporary feed regime can only be used for temporary construction emissions and not for structural construction emissions;]] [[Whereas the corona measures have led to a temporary but significant reduction in nitrogen deposition and the government has indicated that this can be used in the appropriate assessment of permits for temporary construction emissions;]] [[Considering that the government intends to take measures to reduce emissions in the energy sector by the end of the year, which can also be used to create nitrogen space for the construction sector;]] [[Considers that the proposed feed regime is contrary to the requirement in the Emergency Act approach to nitrogen that such a scheme should only be introduced if it is established that there is no significant negative impact on, inter alia, animal health and animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the proposed feed regime and instead to opt for an alternative route using professionalism within the agricultural sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u3	Yes, Mr President, because I am somewhat confused about this motion. I see Mr Bishop passionately as a kind of Che Guevara of dairy farming leading the revolution. But it has been the SGP that, together with the coalition, has adopted the emergency law that allows the minister and its officials to come to this settlement. Mr Bishop writes on social media: I do not want officials to talk about what food a farmer gives to his dairy cows. Then why did he vote in favour of the law that made that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u4	Two comments. First of all, I find it too short-sighted to call the protest from the sector against the current measures, and the way in which they are expressed, a revolution, and then call me the Che Guevara. Apart from the fact that I don't wear a beret, smoke cigars and have no beard, that comparison is completely wrong in other respects. Why did we agree to that law? I have already mentioned this, and that is very simple: because we were assured that this would be developed in consultation with the sector. Of course, we had reservations about this, because that means that nitrogen is permanently withdrawn from the agricultural sector and made available for another sector. We had our hesitations and I also gave words to that. Only in the confidence that it would be achieved in consultation with the sector, which is willing, have we said: okay, then we support the Minister's proposal. Only now we feel not only disappointed, but also offended by the way in which it is now being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u5	Mr. Futselaar, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u6	I would, of course, like to give Mr Bishop the hesitations he has had. However, I do note that the SGP is a party that says loudly: I do not think that the government should intervene in the transport trail. And I also note that that party has agreed to a law that makes it explicitly, explicitly possible for the government to intervene in the feed trail. That is a consequence of the adoption of that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u7	A brief response, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u8	This is a typical socialist way of thinking. The line of thought that was there was not: the government intervenes in the feed trail. No, the line of thought was: the experts, the owners, the sector itself regulates the transport trail, and the government creates the preconditions for that. And that is a typical conservative approach that fits very well with the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u9	Mr President, something revolutionary has happened. Because the SGP suddenly took over the Party's argument for the Animals that it is bad for animal welfare to just cut into proteins in bred animals, which therefore need a lot of protein. So we found that remarkable. But I'm starting to hesitate a little bit. Because I believe that the SGP should not go through with this feed regime, but what does the SGP mean by that motion? Does she mean that no nitrogen measures are imposed on agriculture at all, because there has been corona so we have saved a little nitrogen? On that condition, or with all these considerations, we cannot support the motion. Furthermore, I agree with Mr Futselaar. The SGP has been involved in the agricultural debate for quite some time now. If you reject fundamental solutions, and you walk with the help of an emergency law, yes, then this is what you get. And then you can get angry here and say: farmers suffer from this. But that's what you're asking for!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u10	The latter seems strange to me. What matters is that there is a problem, to whatever extent. Co-operation is requested. It has been the industry's line to choose a solution. The sector commits itself, and then it passes through the actual proposals that lie ahead. So I do not think that is acceptable in administrative terms. And that also makes me "slightly displeased," I'll say. I would indeed be concerned if we were to follow the line of the Party for Animals on this point, as Mrs Ouwehand calls it. Look, those animals are bred. Mrs. Ouwehand might say, "They're fucked up." But, yes, we haven't had any oysters for a while, so those animals in dairy farming and the other animals have a certain need for food. You can't just cut into that and you can't just say: you know what, we ration it and then those animals lose weight. Then you get the effects as we saw them in the Oostvaardersplassen, where the animals all died because they lacked food. And that is not what we want! Those farmers don't want that! They want to take care of their animals!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u11	Mrs. Ouwehand, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u12	Then the animal welfare argument is a bit of an occasional argument. Eventually we find each other and that is quite a unique moment: the SGP and the Party for Animals...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u13	Happens all the time: heavy fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u14	Sometimes yes, very good. We both don't want that arrangement, but the contents of the motion... I have to advise my group on what we are going to do. It sounds a bit like Mr Bishop here says that agriculture does not have to do that reduction of nitrogen at all. I'd be really sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u15	I left that point for a while. No. I'm gonna read the operative part one more time, and that'll solve the problem, I think. Your question will then be answered. "Invites the government to withdraw the proposed feed regime and instead to opt for an alternative route, using the professionalism of the agricultural sector." The agricultural sector must therefore make a contribution. Only, via an alternative route, using their expertise. I hope we found each other, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u16	We'll see about that in the votes. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr Geurts, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u17	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of dairy farming organisations (Agritie, DDB, Thorough, LTO, NajK and NMV) and Nevedi have proposed to limit the raw protein in concentrated feed for dairy cows;]] [[noting that two criteria must be met in order to obtain nitrogen space;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the dairy sector's proposal for a 3% reduction in the crude protein content of the compound feed delivered at sector level compared to 2018, the ministerial scheme and the combination of both if the dairy farmer is given the choice between them, is passed on by the PBL;]] [[The Government further requests, if it appears that the proposal of the dairy farming sector, combined with the ministerial scheme, produces more nitrogen reduction than the ministerial scheme, to give the choice to dairy farmers to opt for the proposal of the dairy farming sector by means of a private contract between the dairy farmer and the feed supplier, at least containing the following contract:]] [[the provision of feed supply data in 2018 and 2020 in such a way that it can be demonstrated at any time how the average values will be achieved;]] [[and:]] [[penalties for non-compliance with the contract, in such a way as to provide sufficient legal guarantees for authorisation and to make the dairy farmer's choice actively known to the public authorities so that it can be included in the nitrogen registration system;]] [[Furthermore, if it appears that the voluntary choice between the proposal of the dairy sector or the ministerial scheme together results in less nitrogen yield than that of the ministerial scheme separately, the government requests that the ministerial scheme be re-examined,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u18	I could never have made this motion that long without the help of Mr Harbers, who signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u19	I was wondering where the CDA and the VVD have gone when it comes to "farmers deserve clarity" and "we shouldn't make things too complicated."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u20	I will advise Mrs Ouwehand to read the motion just as carefully as soon as she gets it in printed form. Then it will be very clear what the intention of the motion is. But given the time, I do not think that the President will give me the opportunity to explain the motion at all, because then I will have a few minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u21	Thank you. Mr Madlener, PVV, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u22	Mr. Chairman. I have a slightly clearer motion than the one we just heard. I have to think about what that means, but we will hear it from the Minister in a moment; I am curious. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas researchers from the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at Utrecht University expect the proposed feed regime to increase the risk of milk disease, the development of fatty liver and lingering milk disease;]] [[Whereas the proposed feed regime has little support in the sector;]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce the proposed feed regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u23	Mrs. Ouwehand has a question for you. Proceed, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u24	I would like to use my 1 minute and 20 seconds to say that nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands are much lower than they were 20 years ago, that we do not have a very big nitrogen problem at all and that our nature is quite well represented. Of course it can always be better, but it is certainly not bad with nature or air quality in the Netherlands. It seems that the government and the coalition are simply trying to reduce Dutch agriculture. I've had that idea for a long time. Every time there are measures taken that you think are: what are we doing here? We are bullying farmers with rules that are almost incomprehensible. It looks like they just want the Dutch farmer out of the Netherlands. I'm very sorry about that. The Netherlands has a very nice tradition and a beautiful peasantry with large and small businesses. As far as PVV is concerned, we keep it that way and we should stop bullying all this peasantry, I'll say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u25	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u26	Mr. Chairman. It's July 2nd, the last day before the summer recess, 11:57 p.m., and what are we going through? The old song in agricultural policy. Less animals, less manure, less problems, that's the solution we need to go to. But no, then the farmers get angry, so we're gonna come up with measures and patchwork around it, so you don't have to choose that fundamental solution and you can say to the farmers: we're gonna solve it differently. And what happens? Then you're gonna work that out. And then who's angry? The peasants. Who's angry? The parties requesting these measures. When will the Cabinet learn from that? When will the Minister learn from that? It's never good. If you keep getting out of the way of the basic solutions, you're gonna stay in this mess. And who was there to help me? Look at how complicated it is. So the Minister says: "No, that feed system is not harmful to animal welfare, because there is an exception, so that the farmer pays attention to the farm on average does not have to be below 155 grams of protein per kilogram of dry matter in the total ration. The exception is rather complicated and may not always be interpreted correctly, but I will clarify it through the RVO website, including by making a calculation tool available." So you don't choose the fundamental solution, but you say "we do it differently," and then farmers get to read into a complicated system, look at websites and fill out maths. I thought farmers would get less rules. The only way to do that is if you choose fundamental solutions. We will not support the motion of the SGP. The PVV's motion was more unambiguous: that force feeding measure should be removed; it is bad for animal welfare. Yeah, animals have to get rid of that feed, but then you don't have to breed them so much that they need all that protein first. Mr. Chairman. As long as the Minister avoids fundamental solutions, it remains this circle in the dung pit for the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u27	I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u28	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u29	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to introduce a few more words, because I think that also gives some explanation of the motions that have been tabled. Then I can proceed immediately to the assessment of the motions. I would like to take the Chamber further into the process that has run over the past period. In a letter to your Chamber last November, the Cabinet identified three measures to provide the nitrogen space for the authorisation of 75,000 homes and 7 MIRT projects by 2020. These were: the reduction of the speed limit, the adaptation of animal feed and the warm clean-up of pig farming. All three of these measures, including the feed measure, are subject to two criteria which must be met in order to be able to use that nitrogen space for the purposes of authorisation. Firstly, the measure must be legally tough, it must be secured. In other words, I have to be sure that the target nitrogen reduction is actually achieved. Secondly, the effect of the measure should be known at hexagon level. In other words, you need to know exactly where the nitrogen reduction will be achieved. I did not invent these criteria, but they stem from the ruling of the Council of State of May 2019 on the PAS. I think that is important to mention; these are the frameworks within which I have to work. With these frameworks, the people of our ministry then discussed with the sector about, among other things, the adaptation of animal feed. And that was finally stranded, because the sector, at the time still united in the Agricultural Collective, broke off the talks. I've informed your room about that, too. The mandate of the cabinet and also of your Chamber, which passed the law, so that I must respect it, was unchanged. I had to make sure that nitrogen space was created on the basis of the three measures. That is why we have continued and developed the animal feed measure. This has resulted in a ministerial arrangement which has now gone through the procedure in front of your Chamber. The weeks are over, but that aside. When that became known, the industry again asked for an alternative to be discussed. I also indicated that I was open to this at the time. The measure is not sacred to me; I am not married to one solution. If you can do better, I'd be happy to, and we'll look into it. But there again the conditions were that the criteria of the Council of State had to be met. After all, no one has anything to do with an alternative that ultimately doesn't stand up legally. Then we have an arrangement that doesn't last, and then eventually you can't grant a permit. I had also asked for broad support in the sector, both in the dairy sector and on the animal feed side, so that they would also give their support to the alternative. In recent weeks intensive and constructive discussions have taken place between the representatives of the sector and our ministry. Our ministry has also been actively involved with the sector, which has made the proposal more and more stringent in order to meet the criteria. We have really come closer to each other in these talks. The sector initially maintained an effort obligation for nitrogen reduction at sector level, but that does not meet the criteria of the Council of State, which I have already indicated. At the last moment, however, there was a tightening up of the proposal to give dairy farmers the choice between either complying with the ministerial regime or the sectoral alternative, but reducing the crude protein content at farm level. I have informed your Chamber that the proposal of the sector and the provision and securing of a choice of dairy farming is very complex in terms of implementation, not only for the public authorities but also for the sector itself. They will have to conclude thousands of private-law contracts that the government will then have to monitor. Frankly, I find that impossible within the given timeframe. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions now and I will indicate how I deal with them. The SGP asks me not to implement the measure and to opt for an alternative route. I think I have just explained in detail why the route offered by the sector did not provide the frameworks necessary to achieve a legally sustainable and accountable regime. The petitioner also states that I have other options for dealing with these matters. He refers, among other things, to the corona yield. That's what I call it. Apart from the fact that the revenue generated by corona in sectors other than agricultural sectors, which was unfortunately due to a very large number of farms falling apart, with all the economic damage it caused, there was also less traffic. So that was not necessarily the agricultural sectors, but that aside. I indicated in my reply that we are looking at whether this space can be used somewhere on the basis of an ecological assessment, an appropriate assessment, but also that this will be very minimal. In other words, that will not yield what we need, and what I am committed to, in order to achieve the housing and the MIRT projects. That is the framework that your Chamber has given me, and that is why I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u30	Two comments. The Minister outlines that the sector and the Ministry have come together step by step, but that it has finally broken up. It is not quite clear to me at what time and why the roads were actually separating themselves. Apparently there was something that was largely worn together. Secondly, I would like to point out to the Minister that the regulation proposed by the Minister does not meet the requirements that should be imposed on it. In fact, the emergency law explicitly excludes animal welfare as a result of feed measures, but that is the case. This has been widely argued by experts once again. So the measure proposed by the Minister is not workable either. That is why I would appreciate it if the Minister would still embrace the operative part, look for an alternative route with the support of the sector and just want to keep trying. That will work, but with respect for and recognition of professionalism in that sector. And there's the big pain in that sector. Put your ear to your ears and you will hear why people are so upset about this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u31	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u32	I would like to invite the Minister to really deal with this in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u33	I have done nothing but consult with the sector over the past few weeks and over the past few months, because I wanted us to be able to work things out. That hasn't been a matter of unwillingness, really. If Mr. Bishop thinks otherwise, it's up to him. He asked me when the final conclusion was that it didn't work out. I'm just gonna get it out of my head. Last Wednesday there was a proposal with a general percentage that we could not properly take into account at hexagon level. There was a bottleneck there at the time. Last Friday, the sector was tightening up, again in that: it came at business level and we were able to choose between the minister's ministerial arrangement and the measure from the sector. We looked at that again over the weekend. In the end, last Monday, we had to observe that I also informed your Chamber that the measure did not meet the criteria of the Council of State. I do that with regret in my heart, because once again, I am not here because I want my measure. I want a measure that meets the criteria laid down by the Council of State. I have just mentioned this: it must be legally secured, it must be certain that the proceeds will be realized and it must still be available at hexagon level. On these two points, I could not give the certainty from the point of view of the sector, and so I was unable to make the granting of the licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u34	I am surprised at the argument, because I can also hear the Minister mention enforcement. Thousands of private contracts had to be signed. This is not reflected in the Minister's argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u35	The enforcement was also one of the points. I've mentioned that before. In the sector's proposal a private contract should be concluded between the feed supplier and the recipient, the farmer. So first, all these contracts have to be concluded. Those contracts should set out the conditions, for example that it can be established that 3% would be reduced at company level between 2018 and 2020. The data from 2018 and 2020 should then be available at company level. I am not allowed to request that data because of the GDPR, so I am not able to do so, so the sector itself has to make it available voluntarily. So they have to be able to deliver them. The farmers themselves had to be able to state: we do the minister's arrangement or we do the regulation of the sector. This means that a choice must always be made in the implementation: for whom is one regime and for whom is the other regime? And all that had to be done in a time frame of... Actually already, because the regulation of the sector started on 1 July. These are also factors that have helped us to stop seeing how we could regulate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u36	Finalizing, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u37	I therefore note that the reason was an administrative problem: we could no longer regulate it. Regarding the measurement at hexagonal level: you can also discuss this endlessly. There are... well, let's not have a business discussion about that. I think that the alternative that we are proposing in the motion is an extremely useful alternative, and I would really recommend that the Minister embrace it and work it out. Get on with that, because that's what the sector needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u38	What is happening here is that the farmers are just being sewn on an ear. It happens all the time here, in this Chamber, that ministers hide behind rules they make themselves. The government is responsible for all those rules. You say: I can't help it; I have to do this. That's just bullshit. There is no country in Europe that strictly complies with the Birds and Habitats Directives. The Netherlands is the only country that wants to comply with all these rules on a millimeter and says: I can't help it, you know, Brussels has to; it has to be done, Council of State. That's just bullshit. So I would appreciate it if the Minister would not be so cowardly to hide behind rules, but would simply say: I am doing this on behalf of the government, on behalf of all those parties sitting here; that is why all this is being done. The farmer in the Netherlands is simply bullied away. That is ultimately the result: the amuse of D66 is simply realized here. I would appreciate it if fair politics were to be done and it would simply be said: we choose to do so and we are responsible for it. Stop running away from all those rules that the government and all those parties are responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u39	Mr. Chairman. I propose this measure, which is correct, and I take responsibility for it. That's why I'm here. I'm not running away from that. At the same time, however, I have to deal with the situation that the granting of licences has now virtually ceased because of a ruling by the Council of State. That is not a judgment I made; that is a judge's ruling, which has checked whether we are applying the existing rules. I have to relate to that. It is no good to me at all if I introduce a measure which will ultimately eliminate the issue of a licence. That would be the situation, and that would be of no use to anyone. This applies to the farmer who takes a measure that ultimately does not produce any results and also to those who want to build a house but does not get a permit for it. That is why I have to stay within these frameworks, because I want what we are doing to have results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u40	Finally, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u41	I am glad that at least a little bit is admitted that the Minister is doing this because she wants to do so, on behalf of the government parties, because the Minister is here on behalf of the government parties, on behalf of the coalition. So let us not fool the people: this is just government policy, the government parties, and the Dutch farmer will suffer. There is no country in Europe that is so crazy to destroy its own economy in this way. I'd like to have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u42	I am doing this on behalf of both Chambers of the States-General, who have passed a law ordering me to create space for housing and seven MIRT projects, including through the cattle feed trail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u43	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u44	Actually, I only have one question. The Minister has always said: less animals, I find that too easy. Look at what this is about a debate, how complicated and how annoying it is and how many difficulties are being created for farmers. And then you still don't know if you're gonna make it to your targets. When does the Minister say: boys, it is far too difficult to arrange this by means of detours and lap agents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u45	I never said less animals would be too difficult for me. In fact, I mentioned a measure which also supports this, namely the warm clean-up of pig farming. So Mrs Ouwehand always puts the picture down as if nothing is happening in that area, but nothing is less true, I would say. I only have to deal with a law and a legal framework, in which I have been instructed to do things. I made the proposals myself. I'm right about that, too. It is important that we keep looking for: what are the possibilities to deal with things? But pretending that we have not done anything about the issue of fewer animals... That's what I'm fighting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u46	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u47	I'm not saying that either. I'm just saying that the Minister always said less animals. I find that too easy. It's possible, but it's kind of crazy that you want to be difficult. Tonight is another of the many illustrations of this. Then the problems still haven't been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u48	I think that this is an issue at all that is long-term. I never said that we would have solved nitrogen issues within one year, quite the contrary. We have presented a long-term approach, which we also know will go well beyond 2030. That'll mean something to everyone. This will also mean that we will think in other ways about how to link nature and other activities, for example, and also the agricultural sector, much more. It's all in there. So I never said this would be resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u49	Then the motion to part No. 113 and those in part No. 114.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u50	In the motion Geurts/Harbers in part No. 113 is a long request, or actually two requests. In fact, I see two things in this motion. Firstly, I am asked to pass on the proposal from the sector to the OJ. They are asking for this not only for the sectoral proposal and the ministerial regulation, but also for the combination of both. In the sector proposal you can opt for our arrangement. You can also opt for the regulation of the sector. One farmer will choose one and the other farmer will choose the other. So you will indeed have to decide with each other what the effect is. I will have to check with the PBL whether they are able to deliver the requested transfer account and, if so, at what time. I'll have to check it out. I would like to point out that time is limited. As I have just said, the sector proposal would enter into force as from 1 July. So this is a matter of great urgency, if there is still a choice to be made. I do see that as a debinding condition on this motion. If the PBL is unable to deliver this in the short term, it is an irreversible path. I trust the authors will agree with that. I also note that the authors of the motion say that if the combination of the sectoral proposal with the ministerial regulation produces less nitrogen reduction than our proposal, this is a debinding factor for them. In other words, this combination must at least produce what we had included in our proposal. I read that back here and that seems to me to be a clear statement. I would also like to point out that it is going to be quite short time for farmers. Farmers should actually start preparing for a situation where a ministerial arrangement will come into force on 1 September. I don't know if this motion will be adopted, Mr. Chairman. But if that is the case, I really want to stress to everyone here, and not just here but also outside, that this will not necessarily mean that the measure no longer exists. In other words, farmers must remain aware of the fact that the ministerial arrangement can enter into force on 1 September. I really think it is a great responsibility of this Chamber that we should not pretend not to and that farmers will say to us on 31 August: it would all be different. Mr President, I think that is... Allow me to make those comments, otherwise we will keep them in the dark for a long time, when it could eventually become a complicated story. In other words: Calculating PBL: I don't know if it works. I'm going to ask if this motion is passed. But if it doesn't work, it's just a debinding condition for me. I note that the authors note that it must at least produce the combination of the ministerial regime and the sectoral proposal as the ministerial regime sec. If that does not happen, it is also a debinding condition. I have just referred to the implementation technical problems, the enforcement problems, which I see in any case in the sector proposal. On the basis of my considerations, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u51	The motion in part No. 113 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u52	Then I come to the motion on part No. 114. I have just had an interrupting debate with Mr Madlener. I'm dealing with an arrangement. We have said that we want to create the nitrogen space for other activities, such as housing. I know that Mr Madlener thinks that we do not have a nitrogen problem, that he therefore also states that there is no need to reduce nitrogen at all and that he therefore says that this measure should be withdrawn. I have to refer to a statement by the Council of State of May last year, and I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u53	The motion in part No. 114 is not recommended. Mr Madlener, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u54	I would like to ask a question about the motion in part No. 113 of the CDA and the VVD. What are we gonna do with this? In fact, I hear in the Minister's voice that it is not going to work, that it is so short a day that it is almost impossible. It's got all kinds of detachable conditions. Isn't this just a fucking emotion, if I'm getting this right? What are CDA and VVD going to do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u55	You can ask them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u56	I've given my appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u57	The motion has been denied judgment. We're going to vote on it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u58	Then I would ask these parties to explain again what this is going to yield. This isn't gonna do anybody any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u59	They just explained that at the filing. That's what can be shared right now, Mr. Madlener. I'm really sorry. It's now 12:30. I think this is what it is. You know what assessment this motion has just been provided by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u60	The Minister said that there are so many unbinding conditions on the motion that it is really nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u61	But that is a conclusion that you can draw with your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-78.u62	Okay, good.
