ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u1	The next item is the Social Affairs and Employment budget, Section 35570-XV. We have 18 speakers... And then it got quiet. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, as well as the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I would like to propose to each Member that a maximum of six questions be put in the first term of the Chamber. And the shorter, the better, but so do you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u2	I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. The Netherlands is having a hard time. The consequences of the corona crisis are falling apart. Hard-working entrepreneurs and employees receive unprecedented blows. There's a lot of uncertainty. The corona crisis has a huge impact on the lives of millions of Dutch people. A social tragedy is taking place. That is terrible, especially because this crisis is on top of the difficult situation that millions of Dutch people had to deal with before the corona crisis. Even then, many people didn't know how to make it to the end of the month. In January, De Nederlandsche Bank warned that a million Dutch people have too little money to cope with setbacks. Dutch households are not prepared for the consequences of the crisis. This is because the wrong political choices of this cabinet have not given them a chance to build a financial buffer in recent years, because Dutch people have been dealing with too high rents, too high care costs and too expensive groceries for years. The Nibud is right to worry that people have lost 60% of their living expenses. A survey of RTL News has already shown that almost 30% of the middle-class people are short of hundreds of euros per month. Real disposable income has been virtually stationary for years as fixed charges continue to rise. And the cabinet didn't do anything about it. Nothing has been done to make it financially more bearable for Dutch families. They didn't reverse the VAT increase, health care wasn't reduced. No, everything just got more expensive. In 2020, even the highest rent increase in six years is a fact. And now we see what that does, what the consequences of this disastrous policy are. All signals are red. Mr. Chairman. I do not feel that many people here in the Chamber understand what that means in practice, what it is to have to choose between buying groceries and paying bills every week. 20 euros from your daughter to put food on the table. Birthdays should skip because you can't buy presents. Sleepless nights. Families falling apart because of financial stress. And no, this is not just about low-income people; it is also about people with a modal income. They work themselves dull, but earn too little to make ends meet and too much to make use of social security. They've been squeezed for years, with all the consequences. The food banks can hardly cope with demand. One in five households is struggling to make ends meet. 800,000 people are left with too little money for the fixed charges because of the over-rentals. More and more people are forced into debt. Experts warn that the number of households with debts, often problematic debts, could rise to two million next year. And this is only gonna get worse if we don't do something, if we don't make the right political choices. First of all, we must do everything we can to prevent bankruptcies and to protect Dutch jobs and incomes. That is a goal that I had hoped the rest of the Chamber would agree with. Therefore, over the last few months, the PVV has repeatedly tabled motions and amendments in order not to shatter the support packages, to restore the NOW and Tozo, to avoid messing with the fees and to remove those crazy partner and power keys, which cause manyzzp's problems; not only now, but also next year. But the ministers Wiebes, Hoekstra and Koolmies said no over and over again. In fact, during the debates, the cabinet insisted that there were no austerities. That's so fake... And VVD, CDA, D66, Christian Union and the SGP followed slaves, and so all motions and amendments were rejected. Social and a blow to the face for all those people affected by this unprecedented crisis. And why? Yesterday, De Telegraaf announced that the employers' and employees' organizations are making an alarm. They jointly called on this cabinet not to cut down the emergency support, otherwise a wave of bankruptcies and layoffs would follow. Companies aren't out of the first wave yet. Healthy companies are already threatening to fall because of the consequences of the second wave. They're through their buffers and they're out of control. We can't let that happen. Don't be antisocial and don't push all those hardworking Dutch into the crisis even further, that's my appeal to this cabinet. Don't cause any more unemployed people, more bankruptcies, more misery. Don't wait until somewhere in December until you're clear. There is no time to lose. 'Cause we're a long way from getting here. It is of course good to read that the economy has recovered in the last quarter. But this comes after an historic low. And the misery is far from out of sight. Just look at the municipality of Groningen. Who expects the consequences of the second wave to be harder than those of the first. She's counting on 20% more people in welfare. SME Netherlands expects a snowball of bankruptcies. There are entrepreneurs who not only lose their business, but also go bankrupt personally. Zzp'ers often don't make it anymore. Workers who were already struggling for the corona crisis are now facing an extra difficult time. Despite the aid packages, unemployment has risen considerably. In addition to the 400,000 people who are officially unemployed, according to the latest CBS figures, there are also 753,000 people in full or in part at home. The number of vacancies decreased by 86,000 in six months. The number of WW benefits is growing. We can't put our people in even bigger trouble. That's a normal pursuit, isn't it? Just sort it out, that's my appeal to this cabinet. Get those austerities off the table right now. Mr. Chairman. If Koolmeen again is too antisocial not to say this directly and once again rejects my motion, I call on VVD, CDA, D66, ChristenUnion and SGP, the parties that always have their mouths full of the interests of entrepreneurs and the middle class but abandon them time and time again, to stop playing their political games over the back of all those people who can barely keep their heads above water. Stop it, and make sure we get those austerities off the table. Mr. Chairman. What this crisis has shown once again is that we have a people who can get the shit out of us when it gets difficult. It puts its shoulders underneath and does everything it can to keep its head above water. I'm proud of that. But I also have a double feeling about it. Because this cabinet continues to demolish and in the meantime leaves all these people in the lurch. Millions of Dutch people have a day's work to solve problems they have not caused themselves. And they have to, because if they don't solve it themselves, then who does? They often don't have to count on politics. They know that. When we were dealing with economic prosperity in recent years, they saw that ordinary people did not profit from it. Today it seems like an eternity ago, but in the period 2010-2019 there was 14% economic growth, but citizens had to be happy with a percentage of purchasing power. A small percentage of purchasing power compared to 14% economic growth. You won't notice any of that in your wallet despite all the promises. And the worst thing is: the unnecessary failure to communicate in prosperity has been a conscious political choice, which has now put many people in financial trouble. They feel the financial consequences. And why? We all know that a lot of people are stuck, how people struggle because they don't have enough money for a store and can barely handle the noose of over-rent. We all know that when you get out of the political bubble and start talking to ordinary people, you hear that workers are wondering about what they're doing with the rising burdens. We all know that people avoid caring because they're afraid of the bill, because the own risk for a lot of people is almost impossible to pay. That older people have seen their pension evaporate and for financial reasons sometimes at a later age they need to find a job to get around? Or do we have to cut back so that we can only eat hot food once a week? Even before the crisis, one in five elderly people struggled to make ends meet. That's only gotten worse now. That's anything but a carefree old age. Why do our people always come last?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u4	I have a need to understand what Mr De Jong is saying. Retirement that evaporates, in the Netherlands, with pension pots that are overcrowded: I think he meant something else. Maybe he can explain exactly what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u5	I meant it exactly as I said it. We see that because of the lack of indexation people have unnecessarily missed 20% of their pension. But not just that. In recent years, discounts also threatened. We are dealing with a pension system that is actually very good in the basics. Together with the 50PLUS Group, the PVV has always fought to protect the pension of all those people. That's exactly what this cabinet doesn't do. This cabinet is breaking down the best pension system in the world, while our pension funds are achieving huge returns. With a pension fund of more than EUR 1,600 billion, there is still a risk of discounts. That is unacceptable as far as we are concerned. I mean, by "evaporating" you've missed unnecessary indexation in all these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u7	Mr. Chairman. Why do our own people need to see that there are billions going to Brussels, development aid and mass immigration, but they have checked? I can't explain it. Millions of Dutch people have fallen into uncertainty, not only because of the corona crisis, but also because of the reform drive of foreign politicians. For example, more and more people need to work longer for less security. Our beautiful pension system is being broken down step by step. Because of the wrong political choices, the pension, which has to be worked for, has been undermined by millions of Dutch people. With more than EUR 1,600 billion in cash, there is still a risk of unnecessary discounts. The largest pension returns in the world are achieved in Ireland and the Netherlands, with top yields of an average of 14%. Meanwhile, pension funds have to act as if they are achieving less than one percent of the return due to the rigid calculation rate, so they have to count poor. That is a conscious and, above all, poor political choice. If we were to adjust the calculation rate to a calculation rate that would be more appropriate to the returns, unnecessary discounts could be avoided. Then indexing is even in sight again. This is not only good for the wallet, but also good for confidence in our pension system. But with the terrible pension agreement, this cabinet prefers to break down our pension system, sow panic between generations and allow people to work longer and longer for less security, with all the consequences. More and more people are going sick towards their pensions and in recent years, for their AOW age, they are going to receive assistance, or in the WIA, because they simply can't do it anymore. In the meantime, will pensions also be cut in the coming years? It's an unprecedented disgrace. I call once again not only for 2021 but also for the next five years. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. That can't be the end of it. We need to give our own people more air, more financial air, more work to help our own people through the crisis. Temporarily reduce the low VAT rate to 0%. Also reduce the rents and eliminate your own risk in the care. It's time for our own people. They deserve it. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Our own people also deserve a good welfare state, but our welfare state is under increasing pressure. We should protect them in the interests of our own people, but this cabinet does not. It is given away and broken down under our eyes. The negative consequences of mass immigration are palpable every day. Just look at the unprecedented pressure on our social security by non-Western immigrants. In ten years Rutte has gone to non-Western immigrants for EUR 26 billion in welfare benefits. 26 billion euros! Let that get through to you. What nice things we could have done for our own people. But we gave it away. We do that every year. 3 billion euros a year, I can't get over it. And a thank you from non-Western immigrants for all those hardworking Dutch people who have to cough this up? Don't count on it. We're being fucked. Just look at the massive abuse of welfare. Of course, anyone who commits fraud with the assistance should be arrested, regardless of your name or where you come from. But I'm just saying it the way it is: there's massive welfare fraud among Turks and Moroccans. The majority of the House of Representatives doesn't care at all; they just let it go. Terrible. Why do we let fraudsters do what they do? Surely we should never accept that one out of five Turks is cheating on welfare? They have massive houses and apartments in their homeland. They can afford this by unjustly taking years and years of assistance in the Netherlands. Fraudsters don't get caught much. And if they get caught, the same words come up over and over again: "I don't know" or "you discriminate against me." For example, a Turkish man who had cheated for €152,000 was given room at Nieuwsuur to cry. He supposedly didn't know to report his possession, because he didn't speak Dutch. That's bullshit. First of all, why do you get assistance when you don't speak Dutch? Secondly, where is your own responsibility to know what the terms are? Another example: a Turkish couple received welfare benefits for years, while they own over 1 million euros of real estate in Turkey; no less than 21 properties. They also received rent income from four properties. Fortunately, they were caught, but that one word that they all know so well came by again: discrimination, discrimination and discrimination. It's supposed to always be the other's fault, but of course they do. They know damn well what they're doing. They're just cheating on us, and they're rewarded for it. 'Cause even if you've proven to be a fraud, the fraud could be time-barred. And if, after fraud, you're supposed to be unable to make ends meet, you're gonna have the opportunity to receive welfare benefits. Fraud with benefits and simply maintain entitlement to benefits: it is crazy, it is true, but we cannot say anything about it. And of course, you're not allowed to control it in a targeted way either. No, because then you might get political issues with Turkey or Morocco. What a wretched mess. Mr. Chairman. We need to protect the welfare state from our own people. Therefore, as we have so often advocated, take the next steps. Acknowledging that the preservation of our welfare state and mass immigration are an impossible combination. For the sake of our welfare state, close the borders for all immigrants from Islamic countries and for all asylum seekers. Make sure that immigrants who are already here are only eligible for our social security if they are ten years in the Netherlands, are not criminals and have worked. Shut down the status holders completely from the assistance, immediately. Make sure that immigrants who commit fraud with our social security are arrested and always pay back the amount to the last penny, with a fine on top of it, and that they are expelled from the country and can never return from their lives to use our social security. Mr President, I will conclude. The Dutch have everything to recover from this and defeat this crisis, but then people should not be pushed into an even deeper crisis. It shouldn't make them any harder than it already is. We must avoid as much as possible that, when this crisis is over, ordinary hard-working Dutch people will continue to feel the financial consequences of this misery for many years to come. It's not too late. Anything that's been taken from us, we can take back. Anything that's broken down, we can rebuild. That can be done if we make the right choices, if we dare to deal with the many years of road-view policy, if we dare to stand up and show that we are no longer messing with us. In March 2021, the Dutch people have the opportunity to do so. I look forward to that, because it cannot be fast enough for me to put the Dutch back on one. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question to be asked in any debate about living together in a society, in a country, is this: is it possible to live together when a large part of the population lives according to the ideas of a split swam? In other words, do you have to accept it when a vibrant and active ideology in your country is engaged in attacking and controlling the leading culture? For who would accept it if, for example, he adopted someone, but then lived under the suffocating yoke of that person at home? Would the Minister accept that? Unfortunately, for a lot of people, the answer is that they're okay with it. In any case, this applies to the vast majority of the Chamber, from CDA and VVD to SP. They're all okay with it, except if what's splitting society is called Islam. Then everybody shut up. In fact, even in a statement on the terrorist attacks, the EU deleted the word 'Islamic', because that was not correct enough. The question of how to deal with Islam in the Netherlands and also in the rest of Europe has been going on for more than twenty years. In the almost 50 years that Islam has been working in the Netherlands to get a firm foothold, there is less and less of a society. Integration has been slow, barely, taking place. Assimilation is much less. We don't have a real society anymore. The Netherlands has a parallel. And as a warmer for this budget debate, we also had a debate with this minister last week, including on social cohesion. I asked the Minister about his opinion on how our society stands. I asked him that question seven to ten times, but there was barely or no answer. The minister ducked for most of the questions. How does the Minister feel about the coherence under the influence of mass immigration from Islamic countries? How does the minister feel about the rising racism of Kick Out Zwarte Piet, Black Lives Matter, Bij1, DENK, GroenLinks and D66? How does he feel about the discrimination against Dutch people in the housing market and in the care sector? I mentioned the increase in stabbings, especially by immigrants. I mentioned the threats to teachers when they wanted to discuss a Mohammed cartoon in the classroom. I mentioned the carbecues that are on the order of the I called it sizzling after women and also young girls. "Kechba, hey kechie, you're nice and tight" against 12-year-old girls. I mentioned rappers who serve as role models with subsidies and rig-floggers who get a TV program. It is the lowest of the lowest promoted by this government as an important lifestyle. I mentioned the gang, caused in more and more municipalities by immigrants and asylum seekers, with Scheveningen as a sad example this summer. In all these examples, I always asked the question: how does the Minister feel about the Netherlands and social cohesion? But there was no answer. And I think I know why. This minister would rather not deal with it. He has no influence whatsoever on the emo-blate about gender and inclusiveness of the Van Engelshovens, Ollongrens and Kaags, who make a parallel with their postmodern plans of this country. These D66 women together form the Bermuda Triangle of this country. Anything reasonable, including reason itself, disappears into it. Everything that makes sense disappears into this triangle. Our culture eventually disappears into it. The Minister for Social Cohesion seems to be watching defenselessly. Maybe full of admiration. Let him explain that in a minute. Maybe he loves all that gender drifting and inclusion bullshit. There is hardly any mention of integration under this minister, let alone assimilation. Assimilation is taboo, for years. Freedom within the integration debate and also with regard to the integration actions of the people themselves, reigns. Because inclusion is the fashion word these days. All the Dutch have to do is settle in and give up their place. Our moorhead slowly becomes baklava. Also good, but when it comes to integration, it's a different story. Mr. Chairman. And then I barely talked about the influence of Islam on our country. For if you want to know where the problematic behavior of many and fortunately not all Muslim men comes from, you must know that there is a prescription for that behavior. That prescription can be found in three books: the Koran, in the Sira, the biography of Muhammad, and in the Traditions, in which stories about Muhammad are told. What's the point? The consequences of following this Muhammad. These are the social consequences. In the Qur'an, their sacred book, there are 91 orders for Muslims to behave as Muhammad did 1,400 years ago. The example that Muhammad, the character, shows to his followers, is best summarized as that of a violent, narcissistic mass murderer and pedophile who subjugates the world, hunts and kills Jews, and hunts Christians over the blade. Then we are not talking about the homosexuals, I must say the Ihbtis and the women among them, let alone people who leave or want to leave Islam. An example we saw years ago and we still see in Islamic State, in IS. All they showed is one hundred percent like Muhammad. Mr. Chairman. With 91 orders in the Koran to follow this behavior, we may also say that in the Netherlands we are lucky that a large part of the Muslims in the Netherlands do not carry out or wish to carry out those assignments, but simply live according to our law, simply participate in our free Western society and want to do so. They accept our leading culture, without brimstones, just like anyone who's come here should. They thus give themselves a place in our free Western society. And also those who are free Muslims suffer from organizations and individuals who want to Islamicize our country. Many of them are not waiting for that at all! Leave them alone. One of the organizations that are very successful in politically influencing society with Muhammad's ideas is the Muslim Brotherhood. For years, the journalist Carel Brendel has been working on mapping these organisations, the associated individuals and the social positions that are being conquered and the environment that is then influenced by Islamic ideas associated with the Muslim Brotherhood, the FIOE, the FION, FEMYSO et cetera, all of such organizations. We also know that De Blauwe Mosque in Amsterdam is a mosque that is strongly influenced by the Muslim Brotherhood. In the parliamentary interrogation committee, it was Ronald Sandee who confirmed that. The imam of this mosque is the man who made a petition to restrict our freedom of speech, a petition that was then signed by 120,000 Muslims in the Netherlands, at least, I expect they were almost all Muslims, otherwise I wouldn't understand. So that's over 10% of the population. That imam is in the PvdA again on a committee that compiles election lists. That's Mr. Elforkani. We also know that the PvdA mayor of Arnhem is an ardent supporter of the Muslim Brotherhood. That is the mayor who, together with the VVD, tabled a motion in 2016 to pursue Salafists, in order to keep the brotherhood out of the field of politics. That's pure tactics and the VVD fell for it. Questions, Chairman. What does the Minister of the Muslim Brotherhood know? What does he know about that? In the meantime, what positions does the brotherhood in the administrative and administrative Netherlands hold? Are there any key positions in that? What about the army and the police? Why didn't the minister ever investigate this? Unfortunately, my 2016 motion, which called for this, did not obtain a majority, except for a few votes. But the signals from home and abroad have become so serious over the years that this research should be carried out, and also a ban. In fact, the cradle of the brotherhood, that's Egypt, forbade the Muslim Brotherhood. Saudi Arabia, a number of Gulf States and even Russia call the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organisation. In France and Austria, organisations of the fraternity are being addressed and investigated. Why is the Blue Mosque still open here, so I ask the Minister, and why all the other mosques? Is that because De Blauwe Mosque received millions from then alderman Asscher in Amsterdam? Or is it because the current mayor of Arnhem was one of the PvdA prominents in Amsterdam at the creation of De Blauwe Moskee? Questions, President, many questions, and I would like clear answers from the Minister. Don't say anything like last week. This "Minister for Social Cohesion" needs to know who is active in the administrative and administrative Netherlands for the world's perhaps largest and most effective organisation involved in infiltrating and influencing the politics involved in rolling out and realising Muhammad's ideas and actions. And the Minister must inform us of anyone who holds positions on behalf of that organisation and how he is going to deal with them. Clarity, clarity, but above all action. The Muslim Brotherhood is not the only organization that deals with the actions I have just mentioned. There are also Muslims who have less patience than the brotherhood. They call themselves a salafist and they regularly commit bloody attacks. We know all about this in Europe over the last few decades. They cause the empty spaces at the dining room tables in our free west. It is not for nothing that the mayor of Arnhem seems to turn against them at times. Too much blood does not do the creeping work of his brotherhood of course. But we also have the influence of sultan Erdogan from Turkey, the man on whom 70% of the Lower Turks voted in the last Turkish elections. He also has influence and ties with the brotherhood. And here in the Chamber, we also know that there are ties between Erdogan and DENK. But there are also links with Milli Görüs another Islamization organization that has a branch in the Netherlands. Erdogan has 150 mosques in our country via Diyanet. Erdogan calls Dutch fascists and more of that kind of unfaithful. Then we have Fethullah Gülen, Suleymanci: all Islamization organisations through schools and through workers. We have state images that come to teach Ramadan Moroccans during the Islamic month. There is influence of Gulf states here through the financing of mosques. We are going to have the debate on the parliamentary interrogation committee that I have just mentioned, but there is no beginning to be seen to stop all these Islamic influences here in the Netherlands. Apart from the PVV, the Room is mainly sleeping. Fortuyn, who came up, wasn't a signal. Van Gogh, who was killed by a Muslim, wasn't a signal. All attacks in Europe were not a signal. A lot of fine words, but no deeds. The alarm clock has now gone off hundreds of times, but most of the politics sleep quietly. Then I come to the question of when is politics in the Netherlands going to do its Islamic homework, rather than the racist, white homework suggested by the Labour Party? And when will the Minister do that? I'm about to finish, Mr. Chairman. Islam is a political ideology with a touch of religion. The wearing of the headscarf is above all and above all a political statement; that is the next subject, also just before the conclusion. This is confirmed by the SCP study of June 2018. In it, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau writes: "a large part of the Muslims wear the headscarf because they see it as an Islamic rule." But it also writes: "wearing a headscarf can also function as an identity marker; it is then a statement from Muslims to the outside world about their Muslimness." In the Qur'an it is stated that a scarf must be worn so that it is easy to recognize them, so that they are not harassed. Thus the Qur'an is implicitly a book that legitimizes the harassment of unveiled women. The pregnancy of all or part of facial clothing in public space has a direct impact on all women who cherish their acquired freedoms and their security. The freedom to wear a symbol openly ends where it poses a danger to others who do not carry it. Symbols representing the visible distinction "may or may not be harassed" therefore do not belong in the heart of democracy and in public buildings. Banning it is the right thing to do. I call upon the Minister to do so. Mr. Chairman. It is time for the government to take action against Islam, to dismantle Islamic infrastructure and to appoint Islam by the government in the event of Islamic attacks. Away from that murderous political correctness. Recognizing and proclaiming that Salafism, non-violent and violent jihad have the same purpose, must also be done. That goal is to Islamicize our country. For where there is influence of Islam, there will never be peace. Never peace. Anyone who understands what Islam stands for and who thinks our freedom is worth it can only defend the Netherlands against Islam. Inviting and facilitating a hostile ideology means the end of the freedom and security that Dutch people deserve. It means destroying our culture step by step. It means the end of our traditions. It means getting Islamic customs imposed and, finally, Sharia. This government facilitates that process. This government and a large part of the Chamber bow. But we have to de-islamize. We must defend our rule of law. We have to defend our safety. We must defend our freedom. We must defend women, Ibtiqs, Jews and Christians. We must defend Muslims. That's our assignment. 'Cause whoever bows, he's gonna burst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u11	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend I got a call from my colleague Judith Tielen. She was supposed to be here tonight, but like many others in the Netherlands she was unexpectedly confronted with a positive corona test. And that means a lot. Fortunately, the complaints seem to be mild. However, a positive test has many consequences, first of all, of course for someone personally, but also for the work situation. After all, the agreement is that someone with a positive test stays at home to prevent further infections. That is what we ask of everyone in the Netherlands and of course that also applies to us in the House of Representatives, so from this place I wish Judith much better. Mr. Chairman. From all the stories of people I speak, including from my wallet, it appears that working is much more than just making money. This is also the conclusion of a number of important reports on work published this year by the Scientific Council for Government Policy and the Committee on Employment. Work is valuable to people. It offers income, it provides structure, development, social contacts, and maybe that's the most important thing yet. It makes it clear that you're doing something that others need. You're needed. How important working for people is this year, in which Corona has turned our lives and jobs upside down, has only become clearer for all of us, but even more so for all those people who have lost their jobs or who are uncertain whether their work will ever come back. In the travel sector, the catering industry, the event industry and the cultural sector, a lot of work has been lost and no one can say if and when it will come back. Everything has become unpredictable. Unemployment figures rising by a record one quarter and falling by the next. Mr. Chairman. What we know for sure is that we need everyone to get out of this health crisis, but that also applies to the economic crisis. We need everyone to get us out of here again. In that light, I have a question for the Minister. Last week, in my view, the Chamber unanimously adopted a motion from my colleague, Mr Aartsen, tabled with many other colleagues, to update, where necessary, the support package that we put together in this Chamber. I would very much like to hear when we can expect a reaction from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u12	It is, of course, right that the VVD should be concerned about all those people who are unemployed at home and all those people who may still be fired. It doesn't look good. Of course, the good news is that the economy has grown again or recovered in the last quarter, but it is coming after a huge blow before that and we are still very behind. I saw yesterday in De Telegraaf "Alarm to reduce support." And when you turn around, it says, "Golf off." That has everything to do with the third aid package, which includes austerities, also for next year. The PVV has tabled an amendment and also tabled an amendment during this debate, i.e. now for the second time, and motions for resolutions. Earlier, the VVD voted against reversing the austerities. Can I get the support of the VVD today to take the austerities off the table today? There's no time to lose. So let us not wait for the answer from the cabinet, but let us as a Chamber now make the decision to stop these austerities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u13	It will not surprise Mr De Jong that I would very much like to wait for the answer from the cabinet. We have expressed our concern. In previous debates, my colleagues have also expressed this concern. I think it is a good thing that the cabinet is in consultation with all parties who have a very good view of what is and is not necessary now. We have also indicated that we can hardly imagine the introduction of a austerity now. But I would very much like to wait and see the weighting that the cabinet makes on that. Then we'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u14	But the VVD will find something on their own, won't they? It can't be that we're gonna play political games over the back of all those people or we're gonna wait for the cabinet to wake up sometime? We are here in the Chamber to make our move. We can decide today that these austerities will go away. That is possible if you vote in favour of the PVV amendment. You have not done that before, but you may have woken up yesterday and seen that all those people who are now in danger of losing their jobs should not lose their jobs, and that all those entrepreneurs who are falling over should not fall over. So please state today that you agree with me, that you agree with the PVV. And give a majority to the amendment so that we can settle it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u15	Once again, it will not surprise Mr De Jong that I am not sitting in the chair of the cabinet. We have capable people there who are talking to the people who know exactly what is happening right now and in which sectors things may be getting better. And yes, it's heavy right now. We all see that, but we also see that the massive support package has saved a lot of things at the moment. We've already spent tens of billions on this, so it's not like we're hanging out. These people have a move to come up with the right decisions and submit them to the Chamber. We passed a motion on that last week. I'd like to give the Cabinet time to respond to that. That's what we're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u16	There's no time to wait! Hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake. Entrepreneurs are threatening to fall. They're not only threatening to lose their business, they're also threatening to go bankrupt personally. What are you doing? This can't be happening, can it? We can't wait anymore. We can't wait anymore! It looks like the second wave is going to turn out worse for a lot of people that first wave. The municipality of Groningen indicates this with regard to welfare benefits and SME Netherlands indicates this with a wave of redundancies and bankruptcies. But the VVD says we'll wait and see. If you wait, you'll abandon hundreds of thousands of people, if not millions of people, as hard as you can. Take that opportunity of failing in recent months to vote in favour of the motions, amendments and other calls from the Chamber not to shatter the aid packages. Get yourself a VVD. Show that you do care about the hardworking Dutchman and entrepreneur, and support those amendments and motions. If you don't, you're not worth a snipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u17	Those are the words of Mr De Jong. I'll leave it to him. This third package of support has just been put together to breathe along with the waves of the corona crisis. Two weeks ago, we had to use an additional increase in the measures. We'll have another press conference in 45 minutes. Please, let us hope that we do not have to take even more stringent measures. The third support package is certainly breathing with the waves of the corona crisis. I get these calls in the papers, all of them. I get them all. These people are also talking to the people who are in trade-k. Let those people do their job. Let them come with a weighting and have them submit it to this Chamber, no more and no less. That's what we're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u18	I would like to support Mr De Jong. I really do not understand why it should take so long and why we, as a parliament, leave so many entrepreneurs and employees in uncertainty. I think you yourself have just indicated that you cannot imagine that these austerities will continue, given the second wave we are in. Why don't we just take care of that? I understand that the social partners need to talk to the cabinet about what might be additional, but if we all see that we are now in a super-high-rise second wave, which may be even more intense on some fronts than the first wave, why not say that this austerity is not going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u19	Because we have asked for a weighing moment for the people sitting in the chair to make those decisions. We have adopted and appointed them as Chambers for this purpose. It's our job to make sure they do it in a good way. I have just asked the Minister in my term when that weighting will come, because it is heavy at the moment. I'd like to wait for the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u20	But what do you say to those entrepreneurs and employees who are already unable to pay the bills and salaries? They think: if this austerity continues on January 1st, that's five to six weeks from now, then I have to fire people, or my company will just fall apart. Why would you leave those people for another five to six weeks, or two, or three, or one, I don't know, in uncertainty, when all of us, from left to right, think that austerity is the stupidest thing we can do right now? Why maintain that uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u21	I'm repeating myself. I have just asked when we can receive that weighting, and I assume that we will have an answer to that today. I assume the Cabinet will also see that it must come soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u22	I'm a little surprised anyway. The VVD actually says here: "We have no views. We don't have any wishes. We're just looking at the cabinet and the press conferences on TV, and then we leave employers and employees in suspense for weeks to see if their company can continue to exist and whether they'll still have a job." I ask the VVD again: what is your view? What's your message to all these employers and employees? Because it is not often that there is a common struggle and lobbying of both employers and employees. They've united. What is the VVD's response to all those employees who are afraid of losing their jobs and to all those employers who are afraid of losing their built-up business?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u23	Let me say this. I understand the concerns that people have, but I also see that there is a third support package at the moment. You're making it sound like there's nothing there right now. Of course, that's not true. There's a support package. That is what we agreed on, and it is breathing along with the waves of the crisis. The question is whether we should continue the austerities that are in it from January onwards. My colleague, Mr Aartsen, said two weeks ago that he could hardly imagine this, but we are also asking for the expert advice of the cabinet. That's what we're waiting for. I'm assuming that advice and weighing will come soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u24	I really wonder what the VVD still does in this Chamber if it only refers to the cabinet and has no opinion of its own. If the message from the large VVD group here is towards those employers and employees "that is a question ahead and we are curious what the cabinet has to say," what are you doing here? Then what are you doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u25	I'll check the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u26	We have a serious problem. We have a support package that is being phased out. Employers have to pay an increasing proportion of labour costs, while companies have stopped working on behalf of this government in the interests of public health and of all of us. They have to pay more and more out of their own pockets. It's being phased out. There's gonna be less support. And what does the VVD say to these employers? The VVD says: "We wait and see what the cabinet will do. We have no other opinion. Happy game, fuck it!" This is not how we deal with all those employers and certainly not with all those employees in the Netherlands. I do not think we can do that in this crisis where we are asking for so many sacrifices from people. Therefore again the question to the VVD: what is the message from the VVD to all those employers who are afraid that they will lose their business and all those workers who are afraid that they will lose their jobs because your government's support packages will be cut off?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u27	My message to those entrepreneurs is that I understand their concerns and that there is a massive support package. TVL's up. There's a NOW 3, with a lot of money. We put tens of billions in there. It breathes with the waves of the crisis. Yes, unfortunately, two weeks ago, because of the crisis, we had to take even more stringent measures. Our question to the cabinet has been: look and consider again whether that package is sufficient to save as many jobs as possible. That's what I'm waiting for. I didn't just ask the Minister that question for nothing. I'm assuming he'll come up with a very good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u29	Mr. Chairman. This budget debate focuses on "work" in relation to the VVD. I like doing this in four blocks: going to work, staying at work, creating work and, finally, working at home. As I said before, we need everyone to get out of the crisis, including young people. But young people are the first to suffer from a shrinking economy and job losses. We see that in the unemployment figures. While unemployment among the 25+ group is 3% to 4%, it is as high as 11% among young people. The loss of additional jobs has resulted in a sharp fall in income for many students and students this year. Many young people have decided this year to take an extra year of study or to start further training without an intermediate year. This is an indication that young people are lucky enough to adapt to changing circumstances in a sensible way. It would be good if this also applies to young people who do not have a diploma. More than 180,000 young people aged between 15 and 27 are no longer in school and do not receive training, but also have no initial qualification. For the corona crisis, almost 40% of them were out of work. Unfortunately, due to the corona crisis, this percentage will only increase further. We are concerned about this, but it also offers opportunities. In the third aid and recovery package, almost EUR 350 million is earmarked for youth unemployment, or rather youth unemployment. My question to the Minister is to what extent this amount is going to be used to bring these young people back to training or apprenticeship. To what extent is the focus on the possibility of matching these young people with occupations and sectors in which there are still shortages? These sectors are, after all, still there. Think of the technology, the ICT and the care. In addition, I am getting disturbing signals from trainers that quite a lot of young people are tempted to seek assistance rather than finish their training. They see relatively many young people without a starting qualification just now leaving education. And we also need those kids. What is the Cabinet going to do to prevent them from leaving education without a diploma? Can the Minister explain these plans in more detail? In the financial statements I see that mainly municipalities are going to receive money to combat youth unemployment. Let us be clear: municipalities do not create jobs. That's what employers and entrepreneurs do. The VVD would like entrepreneurs and employers to be rewarded for creating start-ups for young people who have finished their training and want to start their careers. Has the cabinet made agreements with municipalities about the incentive for employers? What is the Minister prepared to do to ensure that these young people with a diploma can actually start their careers? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the group of people with disabilities who fall within the target group of the job agreement or who depend on sheltered work. They too are affected by the corona crisis. With the agreements from the broad offensive, which we will be discussing in detail in this Chamber shortly, we will ensure that the job opportunities of regular employers for these target groups are increased. Work must be rewarding. At the same time, it should be attractive for employers to open vacancies. An important instrument from local authorities is the wage cost subsidy. At present the funds for this are distributed among municipalities through the distribution system of the Municipal Fund. There are municipalities that guide a lot of people to work and also lack their budget, while there are municipalities that get the same amount of money, but help fewer people to work. If these funds were distributed on the basis of the number of wage costs paid, I would ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. For 40 years the same job with the same boss hasn't been around for a long time. Even people who have the same job for more than ten years and the same employer see that their work is changing enormously. That is why we have been talking for years about sustainable employability and a lifetime of development. Unfortunately, it doesn't come off the ground. Billions for training lie in R&D jars to dust and training days are transformed into collective agreements in additional holidays for employees. Sometimes, in the social debate, it seems more important for all employees to get contracts for an indefinite period than for us to make social agreements on how to ensure that people get a healthy pension, earn a good income and keep good job opportunities. Because of corona, the subject suddenly comes up high on the agenda for a lifetime. Maybe that'll still be a little positive news this year. This year and next year, the cabinet will pay out many billions to preserve jobs and thus ensure that people can stay at work. The corresponding retraining schemes are indispensable in this respect. Especially for people with jobs and contracts in sectors that are no longer the same for the time being, retraining offers new prospects. The question we have often asked in recent months is: what is the status of our call for one identifiable re-training window per region? The Minister writes in his letters about regional mobility teams. Apart from the specific name, I would like to ask how accessible these teams are to workers, job seekers and employers. Of course, a single point of contact does not necessarily have to be a physical point, but it is an identifiable and accessible point for any working, job seeker, self-employed person or employer with a question or need for further training and retraining. Does the Minister know if all these people can get to those mobility teams? Is he willing to investigate that, too? And is the Minister prepared to find out how the money from the R&D funds is going to be used more easily? The VVD would be more than sorry if the old millions for retraining were left on the shelf and the new millions lingered in discussions on structure and meetings for bureaucracy. In the end, no one was helped with that. What about the offer of training? The VVD sees a lot of commitment at the regular institutions to develop supply, but we believe that more part-time training and flexible training are needed. We are also still concerned about the number of learning places at the MBO, but also at the HBO level. Can the Minister indicate what employers need to offer more internship and learning places? I'd like a response. The VVD is enthusiastic about the non-regular training opportunities, training that are relevant and market-oriented but do not fall within the standard training structure. Think of the Codamcollege and the Craft Academy. The VVD would like this type of training to be seen structurally as valuable additions to the training offer, which, with their different teaching methods, train nascholers to professionals. Already in 2016 we have asked for this together with the CDA. There has been temporary financial support from the Empire in recent years, but the Craft Academy does not know how long it can continue to offer its courses. After April 2022, financial support will cease, while it is likely to provide society with more money than is currently paid for by the government. The VVD asks the Minister to come up with a plan to understand the social contribution of these innovative adult training courses through a cost-benefit analysis, so that sustainable choices can be made for non-regular training on the basis of these insights. It would be good if these insights could be part of the coming formation plans, precisely because lifelong development is so important. I would like a commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about staying at work, it is also about working more, especially for people in part-time jobs. Last year we argued that employers should offer more hours. We called on the Minister to work on bonuses and the possibility of temporarily working more. Although the focus in recent months has been on maintaining existing jobs and overcoming the corona crisis, there is still a major social issue here. Despite motions adopted and an understanding minister, we have not made much progress. This is partly due to the Labour Market Act in balance, which employers fine if they temporarily give employees more hours. For another part, this is due to the Working Time Distinction Act, which, under the heading of "protecting," creates all kinds of obstacles for part-time workers who would like to work more. If we all think that there should be more opportunities for part-time workers, should we interpret this type of regulation so rigidly and exclude certain options in advance? I would ask the Minister if it is not necessary to review these laws again and, if necessary, update them. Many people in the Netherlands, over 1.5 million entrepreneurs, create their own work and often also work for others. The VVD considers it very important that these entrepreneurs can continue to undertake and continue to create work. The government should not stand in the way of this, not during this crisis, but also after that. The emergency packages are important and strong pillars for entrepreneurs and the self-employed during this crisis. They also allow entrepreneurs to look ahead and adapt their business to the changing economy. Only dga's can't look far ahead. The relaxation of the rules on their usual wages, necessary for liquidity, will take place in December. Can the Minister and his colleague in the tax field find out whether an extension is possible here? Self-employed people are happy for a large part back in business again. They worked almost as many hours in the last quarter as Corona. But I also hear more and more about self-employed people whose clients quit assignments because they are not sure if the Tax Administration is going to maintain again in 2021, they are also not getting any clarity through the web module and they are not waiting for the risks of fines and post-charges. The VVD believes that the Minister is doing wisely to extend the enforcement Moratorium and is positive about the letter we received on this last night. The Minister states that after a pilot with the web module, which will last for six months and after which an evaluation will follow, the Tax Administration will continue to maintain. This means that enforcement may start again in October, while the evaluation can only be sent to the Chamber in September and, on the basis of that evaluation, adjustments to the weighting factors in the web module may be necessary. If we want clarity and security in a large part of the labour market, where there is already so much unrest due to corona, let us be realistic. Everyone feels on their clogs that October 1 is going to be a very tight schedule. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are doing this well and neatly. In my view, it is better to decide now to go before the date of 1 January 2022 to start enforcement, instead of first creating uncertainty, not to reach 1 October and then to postpone the date to 1 January. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u30	This surprises me, isn't it? We haven't had enforcement of self-employment in almost four years or not. The number of false self-employed, a phenomenon that we all want to combat here, grows and grows. We have a minister proposing a law, along with the cabinet and the coalition. There's not gonna be a law. There are all kinds of plans and progress notes, but nothing comes, and eventually we move them back to a new period. And in the meantime, people are screwed. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u31	Let it be clear: we are not of false self-employed. There is also a whole group of self-employed people who are not falsely self-employed. We'd like to give that group some clarity. We had firm agreements on this in the coalition agreement. It turns out that in practice it is a little more complicated to shape that well. A pilot is now being launched with that web module, I understand. It's got to be clear. You need to know at the front whether or not you're right to be a self-employed person. As long as that certainty isn't there, it's complicated, too. The web module doesn't give the right answer. Then it's a little weird to start maintaining, because then you also give uncertainty. But we find each other in the fact that we are not in favour of phony constructions either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u32	Please continue. Mrs. Van Brenk through the middle microphone. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u33	I would like to comment on the point where the VVD is already a bit further. It's about young people, about working and about a good job. I think we have a great opportunity today to put something nice here. I have read something wonderful at the Christian Union and the PvdA and that is also in the election programme of the VVD. I think the whole room wants a higher minimum wage. I believe that we could now agree to that. Can the VVD go along with that? I think there are good opportunities. I have a motion, but I understand that there are a lot of forms that are going to do that too. Now's the chance! Is the VVD gonna play?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u34	We have indeed written something about raising the minimum wage in our electoral programme. There are a lot of ifs and buts to that, I say. It's not a part that we're gonna settle here tonight, in an afternoon after. I think I might disappoint Mrs Van Brenk in that. Let us also wait for the elections in that respect. If...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u35	Seriously. Of course there is a lot of laughing in the Chamber, but you have to see this as a total package. You're not gonna take one part out and say, "We're gonna raise the minimum wage now." This also has everything to do with the level of surcharges and the tax burden. On the other hand, we are also keen to prevent this from costing a great deal of employment. Those are things that a lot of people find out about. We will have to discuss this with each other before there is a concrete proposal to increase the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u36	This is bullshit again, of course. Let's wait until the election, because then the VVD just won't do it again. This is just gonna hold on to a sausage. We have a chance now! We have a majority. We are all in favour of making the minimum wage higher, precisely because we see that a lot of people simply can't get enough of it. And that it is going to cost jobs: it has now finally been shown that this is not the case. For decades, we have actually been kept to ourselves, because it has no consequences. I just think it's really regrettable that the VVD says "let's wait for the elections first," because then we're sure they'll just throw it back in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u37	I am not at all sure about the latter, because if there is anything in our electoral programme, we will do everything we can to achieve as many points as possible. There are two things, Mrs Van Brenn. At the moment, we are still in a huge crisis in which employers are already struggling to keep their heads above water, so I do not think that raising minimum wage at the moment is a sensible move. In addition, the conditions we see in this respect are something different from the conditions you see. That's where we're gonna have to work things out first. Again, that's not something you're gonna take care of on a late afternoon in November. We're gonna have to think about that a little longer. In addition, let us wait for the results of the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u38	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, I see you pacing. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u39	Yes, I like polar bears, Mr. Chairman. But perhaps Mrs Nijkerken has missed something, namely the great development that her party leader has made in recent weeks: the development towards the SP, towards a strong and smart government and towards the protection of people. After 50 years of VVD, after 50 years of neoliberal policy, your Prime Minister has finally found out. We welcome that, of course. And pardoes also came into this: an increase in the minimum wage! It shouldn't be crazier; from SP to VVD parties now want an increase in the minimum wage. Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u40	Your question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u41	So I was all done today for a drink with Mrs. Nijkerken, because we're gonna take care of that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u42	You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u43	No, you can't, but it's in my proposal then with a mask, yes. But, Mr. Chairman, don't be distracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u44	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u45	Main issues and side issues. You want an increase in the minimum wage and now you are hiding behind the elections in response to Mrs Van Brenk. Mrs. Nijkerken, you want... Your party wants a higher minimum wage. We want that, too. We can take care of it today. There's one catch, the VVD says: we want a higher minimum wage, but without a link, huh? So the welfare, the people in poverty, we just let them go down nice and easy. But we are going to have that debate at another time; I want to celebrate the profits now. Are we going to propose today that the minimum wage should be increased by 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u46	My answer will be no different than the answer I have just given to Mrs Van Brenk: I am not going to do that at the moment. We are in the midst of perhaps the worst crisis we have experienced in decades. And we're coming out of an economic crisis a few years ago. We then fought hard and, fortunately, we could also save buffers so that we could ultimately spend all those billions to support people before the crisis we are in today. But we are not going to take that step at the moment. We'd like to think about that. It's also in the election program. So we are not against this, but under conditions. And you just indicated: you'd like to leave a link in place. Well, we don't think so. What matters to us is that in the next few years, as soon as that space is there again, we will have to make maximum use of middle-income people; they will have to really find out that things are getting better. And this might include an increase in the minimum wage, but that has to do with the whole system of allowances and all other things, such as the tax burden, which I have just mentioned, to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u47	We have a scoop, I believe, because the VVD is cheating on voters even before the elections! He says: yes, we want an increase in the minimum wage, but not now. And: we need to see it all, but we are in a crisis now, so it is not really a good proposal. Mrs Nijkerken, in March next year we are still in that crisis. And I don't think the odds are high, but if the VVD comes into a cabinet again, then you're going to have to raise that minimum wage, because that's what you're saying right now. You say, no, not now, but maybe later. It is now clearly in your programme: you want it now, a higher minimum wage. If you say no, no, no, if parties are suggesting that today, then we don't want it. No, I'm saying count out of your winnings, and collect your first true election promise already before the election today, with the support of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u48	Despite Mr Jasper van Dijk's glowing speech, I am going to disappoint him: we are not going to do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u49	We are now more than an hour away, and fortunately we are now talking about the election programme of the VVD, because I was indeed waiting for that. And it's pretty well done, if you read that, and mostly in the press and the media. In addition, you had the feeling of: that VVD slides to the left...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u50	Hot right!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u51	...the VVD shifts to the ordinary people. And I did hear Mr Dijkhoff say that that is 'warm right'. But then you're gonna read the program... And then I see, for the ordinary people: you're not sure about your job anymore, because the VVD is going to relax the right of dismissal. And then I see that the assistance, which is so important to so many people, who are already far too low, is going down in the coming years. That is the system that we now have. That's the VVD's proposal. And if you're on welfare, and that's not funny, you have to get the VVD paper clips together or do all sorts of useless work, because that's the consideration. That must be done by every municipality, while all investigations now say: do not do so, and give people confidence instead of distrust. What's "warm right" about that program of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u52	Our commitment is not to make people dependent on benefits, but to guide them to work as much as possible. That is why we consider a consideration or an appropriate offer to be important whatever you want to call it. We think it is important that people get the attention they need to take that step to work. The simple question "what do you need to get to work?" It's far too low. So that's warm right. We want these people to have the support they need in order to live their own lives as independently as possible and not to be dependent, or to be as dependent as possible, on a benefit. People who really can't leave it, because we just have to take care of it. Well, then, your point about fire protection. You're sketching an image like we're about to fire people. Of course, that's just not true. That's not true. However, it is true that, especially small employers, at the moment, are having a very hard time offering people virtually no job, because there is currently a huge and heavy protection against dismissal. So it's not like we're gonna want to fire everyone on a massive scale. Of course it's nice for the picture you want to put down, but it's not like that. In the end, we want to ensure that as many people as possible get to work. That means giving employers the opportunity to offer those jobs. It should not hang around their necks like a millstone, so that they are awake at night whether they can still keep their staff in service. On the other hand, you also offer a decent protection to people who still have a job and who may lose their jobs for some reason. Then too, we will have to work together to get them back to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u53	I do wonder what the choice is when you make people do things. We know the stories of recent years, that people had to do pointless work against will and thanks, because that was the return. In fact, that is not a choice. Everything now points out that this doesn't work for people. You don't put them first. You don't let them make a choice, but you force them to do something they don't want at all and which is useless work. So that's not so hot. It is also not so hot to say to people who work for years at a company: we are going to reduce your fire protection further. Because it is precisely at this time of uncertainty that it is important to give people that certainty. We were just talking about thosezzp'ers. Nor is it social to allow false self-employment to increase, to shift it endlessly and then to make the choice for the interests of employers. So I don't see much warm right. The minimum wage is nice, but for the rest it's just the famous right-wing VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u54	I don't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u55	No. Mr Renkema and then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u56	We are talking about the Social Affairs and Employment budget tonight. Mrs Nijkerken started with: I'm going to talk about work, work, work, work. I have listened carefully and it is indeed about work, work, work, work. A word I haven't heard yet, but it's quite consistent in that too, because it doesn't seem to be in the VVD-election programme either. "Poverty" is the word "poverty." Could Mrs Nijkerken have her warm right heart speak on the issue of poverty reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u57	I think we have made a huge effort in recent years. We have not always had myself personally, but my fellow Member, Mr Tugendhat, has had many debates on it, including with you. I also think that the predecessor of the current Secretary of State has taken very good steps. So that's what we did. There's a lot of extra money going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u58	Mr. Renkema, fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u59	Mrs Nijkerken looks back: we have done a lot about it. I like to look forward, including the budget. I have tabled an amendment on a small amount of money, and it is not a large amount: to reserve 5 million additional appropriations in the budget for children in poverty. It concerns the so-called Klijnsmagels that were established under the cabinet in which the VVD was also in. Now that the VVD chooses a warm-right course, I assume that Mrs Nijkerken can wholeheartedly support that amendment on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u60	Well, Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan doesn't just pull 5 million out of her back pocket. I wish it was one of those parties. So I would also like to hear the appreciation of the Secretary of State for this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u61	Anyone who wonders about the warm right should read the rule of law or the integration paragraph of the VVD programme, which I thought was mostly cold on the right, but completely aside. I have a question about minimum wage. I understand the emphasis on "making work pay more." I agree with Mrs Nijkerken. But later on, we may be going to replace the surcharges because people are stuck in them and raise the minimum wage. I'm happy with that move. I think it's still small; we're gonna stretch it a little bit. If we do something about the supplementing system at once and ensure that work is paid more, can that package go hand in hand with an increase in the minimum wage of 10% or 15%, and the benefits by half of it? Mrs Nijkerken cannot deny that working at the bottom pays too little and there are people in poverty. Isn't this just great together? I think it's such a sham.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u62	At the moment there is a hard link, aimed at increasing the legal minimum wage. This is how much the benefits rise. We'd rather not see that link. In fact, we don't want that link. We have always been very clear about this, precisely because we believe that working from a benefit point of view should also pay. However, Mr Van Weyenberg, I suggest that we continue this discussion at a later date, if there is any clarity about the other approach to supplements and hopefully things will get better with the economy, and so we are sure that this will not cost too many jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u63	But I'm just exploring a little bit. I read in the program that there's room. I haven't seen the VVD's supplement plan yet. A large number of parties have a calculated supplement plan, recently the ChristianUnion and GroenLinks. I am just looking for Mrs Nijkerken to see that instead of the mantra that does not allow the benefits to go up, there is definitely a way to make the step to work pay more if you deal with this together with the bonuses. Again, I agree with Mrs Nijkerken that working should pay off. But you should also have a bit more eye for a group in the assistance that is just going through a lot and that we can give a little support in the back. Where did that obstinate thing come from? It's 100% one or the other. I think the truth is right here in the middle. There's a very nice center. I recommend the VVD center.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u64	Who knows we'll be able to find each other in that at some point. At this point in time, it is important for me to maintain that we release the clutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u65	This sounds a bit like an album. I'm looking... Let me ask you a different question. We have seen recently that people in welfare are having a hard time and that they are stuck in the allowances, which are supposed to help people. Is there going to be a concrete plan from the VVD? I have only seen the election programme so far, but many parties have such a concrete, calculated plan. I haven't seen the SP yet, but hopefully it will. We will be able to discuss both the childcare allowance and the minimum wage with each other in the Chamber with a concrete, forward-looking plan in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u66	Right now, I couldn't tell you that. I honestly wouldn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u68	I'll see where I left off. We talked about the enforcement Moratorium and the date of entry. My question was to postpone that date. The VVD is pleased that the Minister and the State Secretary of Taxation have explicitly shaped the pilot with the web module in the letter. Thank you for that. The VVD supports the pilot's objective, namely to assess whether the web module works in practice, but we want the pilot to pick up a number of things more sharply. This is about contradictions. I have just spoken to Mr Gijs van Dijk about this. The web module must make clear contradictions that are currently present in our legislation. When you fill in the web module, you just expect a clear answer: it is yes or no. The experts who participated in the test version of the web module also often have contradictory opinions about the answer. These contradictions are about everything and some things, such as the definition of authority. Let us now use this pilot to map out how these contradictions are seen and experienced in practice and may also be resolved. Can the Minister add to the pilot targets and evaluation criteria that all legal contradictions are collected and provided with a possible solution? I would like a commitment on that point, because it would really be a missed opportunity if we didn't take those insights with us. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet had strong ambitions on thezzp file. The introduction of a minimum rate and the self-employment declaration were good ideas on paper, but unfortunately proved impossible. It is a good thing that the cabinet has listened carefully to the concerns expressed in practice and withdrawn the plans. We will now have to continue working towards a good position for the self-employed in our labour market. As far as the VVD is concerned, not only is it discussed with the self-employed. We are pleased that we are now working on giving self-employed workers a place in the ESC. That's what it takes. The VVD also welcomes the analyses made, among other things, by the Borstlap Committee on bogus self-employment, but the VVD finds the conclusion that everyone should be an employee, not the right one. We do not think it is right at this time to want to ban all self-employed people. This is often the feeling that I am left with the social debates. Self-employed people create their own work, seek autonomy and want to be able to work in several places. Zzp'ers want to have the feeling of being in charge of their own job and often choose to do so consciously, the group that doesn't consciously choose to do so. It ultimately provides more flexibility for everyone, and yes, it also creates some uncertainty for a number of people. But most of all, it leads to pleasure and happiness. In the labour market debate that I believe we are going to have with each other in December, Mrs Tielen is back here, if it is right, we will go into this in more detail. Mr. Chairman. Finally, work at home. Even Santa Claus works at home this year; especially at home, I say. I learned that last Saturday. However, the number of people who work through corona mainly at home is much lower than in spring. People work less often at home, perhaps less often than wisely. What is the status of the agreements between employers and employees on working at home? Are there any protocols yet? Some big employers have established and enforce clear rules on roadmaps, but what about SMEs? How can we see since May how many people are allowed into a grocery store, but these kinds of protocols are not available for, for example, large office buildings, where people also work? Can the Minister and the Secretary of State indicate exactly what the arrangements are and how they are going to make sure that more work is done at home, especially during corona? The VVD also welcomes the expansion of the cost of work so that employers can ensure good home working conditions for their employees, such as a good office chair and monitors. Many employers also pay an encouraging gift for their employees. I would ask the Minister to continue with the extension of the cost of work in the following year. Is he prepared to examine this with Secretary of State Vijlbrief, to share the possibilities with the Chamber and to clarify it in the short term? In addition, there was a lot to do last week about travel expenses. Employers fear that travel expenses will no longer be deductible if so many people have to work at home. January 1st is in six weeks and we are still in the second corona wave. Can the Minister talk to Secretary of State Vijlbrief to extend the Corona agreements for the coming year and to reach an appropriate set of agreements on travel expenses and home working? I'd like a response. We are also talking about a longer-term issue here. The expectation is that, even when things are back to normal, we will work more often at home. That has great advantages. Think of fewer traffic jams and a better work-private balance. Yet we also see new questions emerging. How do we prevent new health complaints, which the ESC warns about, among other things? How do you fulfill legal responsibilities, like the arbo, when your workplace is your own home instead of your office? The VVD wants more clarity about the responsibilities for a healthy and safe workplace when it is at home. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is a shared responsibility of both employer and employee. I wouldn't like my employer to come to my house to check if my desk lamp is adequate, but at the same time I would like to be able to go somewhere if I have back problems due to working at home. In short, is the Secretary of State prepared to identify with social partners what legal constraints and possibilities exist for more and more home working? Mr. Chairman. People need work and the Netherlands needs all the people so that we can work together out of the crisis. I look forward to a response from the cabinet. And as far as I'm concerned, let's get to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u69	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. Then I'd like to suspend until quarter to eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u70	We will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The final budgetary treatment of this period. After last year's good news show, we are now in a completely different reality. Last year, unemployment in the third quarter of 2019 was 319,000 people. By now, there are over 100,000 more. And it may well be that this number will increase even further in the coming period. Corona controls our lives. It affects our health, the economy and employment. But it also teaches us new things and it shows even more clearly what actually didn't go well. Let's learn from this. I would therefore like to draw with you today a number of lessons that Corona has taught us. Mr. Chairman. The first lesson is about the appreciation of people who do crucial work. In mid-March, the government came up with a list of crucial professions. That was just at the beginning of the corona crisis. Those were nurses, teachers, childcare workers, drivers in public transport, garbagemen, police officers, journalists, etcetera, etc. On the one hand, this list clearly shows who the people are and what the professions that keep the Netherlands running in these difficult times are. On the other hand, however, this list also shows that work that is very important is not always appreciated enough. Let me give you a few examples of this. The people in care work their way out of the body, but have to do it with a one-off bonus so far. The people who work in the cleanup work are about the most important work you can do if you have such a highly contagious virus that was initially forgotten on that list of vital professions. Supermarket employees have to fight a huge battle to get something of a raise and the parcel delivery guys, who delivered about 25% more packages in the first lockdown, have to bring a lawsuit in order to get decent rates. Mr. Chairman. My first question to the cabinet is therefore very simple. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that we can continue to support these people with these essential professions? Is the cabinet prepared, for example, to raise the minimum wage? The recent election programmes have shown that a majority in this House of Representatives is in favour of this. In my view, it is also very much necessary to increase the minimum wage, because work that is not sufficiently valued is not paid enough. That makes sense, because that minimum wage has not risen enough with prosperity either, which means that you can hardly really get away with it. I intend to table a motion on this matter in the second term. I'm sure I won't be the only one who thinks we need to cash in on this political opportunity very quickly. More money is important, but more money isn't everything. Let's be honest about that. For example, we also need to increase employee control. I am also very pleased that in two months' time we are finally going to discuss the own-initiative paper that I wrote about with three chamber members. In addition, many more colleagues are needed to be able to do all the work. This will reduce the workload, including a widespread complaint, including in the public sector. How does the Cabinet ensure that more people work in these vital sectors? Is it prepared, for example, to find a retraining solution? That is a new term that I would like to explain, because I think we really need it very much. We see that people have recently gained more appreciation for the public sector, and that is super positive. We also see that more people want to work in the public sector. And that is also very positive. But it's just quite complicated, because we have to make sure that anyone who is qualified and driven can influx into the public sector. We must remove financial barriers and bureaucracy as much as possible. In education alone, for example, 384 routes exist, and that is not a joke, which leads to a power of education. Also in the care there are all kinds of subsidy jars and arrangements to flow in. Well, that's a good thing, but you still have to find your own employer a lot of times. Wouldn't it be much more convenient if there's just one point where you could go if you want to work in, for example, education or care, where you're just being helped, where you're also getting an income for the period you're working and learning? And wouldn't it be much more convenient, for example, to reduce tuition fees? Because that is also a very large threshold for many people to be retrained. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns basic jobs. That is what the cabinet is now working on, in my view also in consultation with the social partners, but would it really be very strange if we were now to employ people in the public sector, who we know are structural deficits? Then we have to invest in those people and make sure that they can do that important work in five and in ten years' time. These should not be temporary jobs for now, because we know that we still need those people in education or care in a number of years. I am very curious to hear the government's reaction to this. Mr. Chairman. Despite all these efforts, it is not going to be possible for everyone to move very smoothly from work to work. That is why, in our view, it remains important that we support not only companies but also people, that we ensure that no one falls between us and that, for example, income support is provided in the form of a crisis income. My colleague Wim-Jan Renkema will be discussing this in a moment. We are really not happy with how the cabinet has picked it up so far, because that is really not enough. This crisis income will only become more relevant if the cabinet continues its intention to relax the NOW by 1 January, because then we are sure that more people will be out of jobs. So we really hope that this austerity will go away as soon as possible, and we can just decide that this week. Mr. Chairman. Another dossier in which we are not very pleased with the choices made by the cabinet during this period is about the self-employed, thezzp'ers. The minister started with a lot of ambitions and also the texts in the coalition agreement were promising. For example, we would be tackling false self-employment. Yesterday we received the sixth progress letter on thezzp file. I was gonna read it right away. But what does it say now? What are we gonna do? Nothing! Nothing's happening! The problem of bogus self-employment has only increased this period, also by the Labour Market Act in balance. In dealing with this, we have already said: very good that you are making flexible work more expensive, but at the same time if you do nothing about thezzp'ers and thezzp'ers at the bottom, you are going to have that waterbed effect. There's still no web module. The pilot has not even started and enforcement is now being postponed to October 2021 for the umpteenth time. So the conclusion is: the Minister simply does not come out, and as a result one of the biggest problems in this labour market is not addressed. Apparently self-employed people simply continue to do their job under miserable conditions, while everyone, from left to right, I think, sees that that is simply not possible! I am really looking forward to the Minister's response on this point and to what he is going to do to ensure that it is maintained in the coming months. After all, we were also able to read again today in the NRC, yesterday in the letter of Parliament that there is simply no maintenance. That's unacceptable to us. Mr. Chairman. Two short points to close and then one a little longer. Last year, we tabled a motion on mourning leave in the budget, together with the SGP. We are pleased that the cabinet has picked it up, but we would like to see a few extra steps on that. Mr Stoffer will deal with this in a moment. Together with D66, we are working on a law to make homework easier, or actually to make work where you want to work easier. Mr Van Weyenberg will say something about this in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm on my last point. I have started with the appreciation for people who do very important work, but do not actually get enough in return. I would like to conclude with the appreciation for people who do really invisible work, and those are, in our view, domestic workers. And migrant workers, of course, but we're gonna talk about that in a month's time. But I really want to talk about domestic workers now, because that is a vulnerable group, which we talk about even less often than about migrant workers. They now work according to the Home Services Scheme, a scheme that does not require them to become entrepreneurs themselves and the people for whom they work are not employers either. That seems nice, but during the corona crisis we saw that this leads to big problems. From one day to the next, these workers had no income and could not benefit from aid measures such as the Tozo or the NOW. GroenLinks has been critical of this scheme from the outset, and we also see that social security for these people is lacking and that, in practice, there is a real need to change it. My question to the cabinet is very simple: is the Minister prepared to work out a number of options for the cabinet formation to improve the position of these people? The ESC has recently written an interesting report on this. Then hopefully we can improve the position of these vulnerable workers in the formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u72	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u73	Thank you, Mr President. In 2016, the film I, Daniel Blake, was released about a furniture maker in the northeast of England. After a heart attack, he needed help from the State for the first time in his life. It is a film about how governments, agencies and agencies no longer see people, but only a case. Daniel Blake is ground up by bureaucracy and administrative indifference. In a moving scene he says, "I'm not a customer. I'm not a customer of a service. I'm not a number. I'm not a file on the screen. I'm Daniel Blake, a human being, nothing more and nothing less." Mr. Chairman. But do we still see this human being? Working people sometimes become means of production and invisible cogs in our consumer society. If they are not sufficiently productive, people become numbers and as such anonymous. I have five topics. First of all, night work. It is said that convenience serves man. But in our 24-hour economy, there is one group that is heavily affected by our collective complacency: the night workers. When we decide to order another product from a webshop at 10.30 pm in the evening, we expect it to be at our home the next morning. Webshops pride themselves on that fast delivery and are competitors of each other at this point. But the inevitable result of this is that people have to work at night in distribution centres, whereas that is really just unnecessary. Anonymous wheels in that 24-hour economy. Do we still see man? Earlier we asked the previous Secretary of State to start the conversation with the industry. Is it not possible, for example, to present the delivery option differently when ordering? She has promised this, and I am curious about the state of affairs now. 1.3 million people work in the Netherlands at night. It could just happen that this number is going to grow further. The number of online orders has risen explosively in the corona crisis, while we know how unhealthy night work is. In 2017, the Health Council said that night work leads to sleep problems and significantly increases the risk of a number of diseases. Recently, the company doctors in the Netherlands have called for restrictions on night work. GroenLinks shares that plea. In Belgium the principle is: no night work, unless it is really necessary. How does the Secretary of State view this? Then there's the Act of Participation. If you're not productive enough, you'll soon get out of our society. You then have to be "stimulated" to get back to work and then you end up in that Participation Act. There's been a devastating review of that law for a year. The Participation Act has not helped people to work sustainably. The focus on obligations isn't helping. Sanctions on assistance are imposed quickly, but appear to have no effect. So far, the cabinet has ignored this evaluation. Fortunately, we have also read the VVD election programme, which contains a wonderful piece about not everyone being a fraud. After all, that word often hurts and is often also unjust. Are parents allowed to give their child another bag of groceries in welfare? Do we still see man? I'm curious. Is the Secretary of State going to take action when we talk about the Participation Act? What exactly is he going to change about that? Municipalities say: let us not only deliver customised fines, but precisely in the course before that. Why doesn't the Secretary of State take over that point from the VNG? The third issue is the job deal. Last week, Cedris' research showed up on the numbers in the job deal. There was a lot of discussion. I do not think it is a question of who is right or wrong, but of keeping a close eye on the ultimate objective. That should be: everyone, really anyone with a work disability who wants to work, believe me: there are a lot of people who need to be able to work. But right now, half that group is on the sidelines. Will the Secretary of State confirm once again that this should be the target? What's he gonna do about it? Again, do we see man? The fourth point is crisis income. My colleague Smeulders has been announcing this for a while. More and more people are getting out of the way, not because they wouldn't be productive enough or because they can't or don't want to work, but because we're dealing with a pandemic with huge economic consequences. We are now focusing on maintaining work and re-training it to other work. Work, work, work. But the fact is, people are gonna get in trouble, too. We can't look away from that. In fact, if we want to, we can avoid a lot of problems. About companies, we say it's a shame if healthy companies don't survive this crisis. But that certainly also applies to families and individuals. People who have lost totally unexpected income, but who do have a high mortgage, must now go to the food bank or even sell their house. Why can't we support those people, the individuals, more generously? Why does the Secretary of State say in an interview "the social safety net in the Netherlands is sufficient" while the number of people going to the food bank is rising rapidly? GroenLinks has been arguing for such a crisis income for some time. It's not a test balloon of ours. It is a bitter necessity to ensure that poverty rises as little as possible in this complex crisis. That's what we can choose. We can choose to extend the assistance temporarily. A little bigger power test so you don't have to sell your house right away. Do not look at a partner's income so that the combined income remains somewhat stable. Do we still see man? I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how he looks at this and how he looks at all those people who need to go to the food bank right now. Then it's about poverty. Greater income support is an important point for us. We can also do a few more things. The cabinet does this partly with an additional social package, but we are still calling for attention to be paid to a number of specific groups, first and foremost the children in poverty. We all agree that children should not be the victims of a life of poverty. Until 2021, 100 million per year is available for this purpose. Wouldn't it be good to increase that amount once, so that we can better reach the target groups that come in, often people who are not at all familiar with all kinds of schemes, and then also help extra children? Do we still see those kids? Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that? I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Then there's food aid. The Red Cross recently launched a fundraiser to help people who can't get to the food bank. It is sometimes about undocumented people, but also about people who earn a little too much according to the criteria of the food bank or are on a waiting list. They're seeing a huge increase in demand. Would the government support the action of the Red Cross, for example, by doubling the proceeds? We see this very often in other actions of the Red Cross. Mr. Chairman. Poverty is not just a money problem. It also causes social exclusion and stress. Unfortunately, this social exclusion and stress are often passed on to children, which means that the next generation is unable to escape poverty. GroenLinks considers it important that these experiences play a role in policy making. Experience workers can make the voice of people who are involved, the Daniel Blakes of this world, and thus somewhat bridge the gap between system and living world. Now the experience work is used by municipalities, but it is also important that people themselves are well supported. The foundation Strong from Poverty advocates a national expertise team. Is the Secretary of State prepared to support that initiative so that they can really establish a solid structure? I see I have a minute left, so I've thought about adding one more topic. It's about water. In the corona crisis, it was decided jointly that people should not be evicted. But what many people don't know is that 700 families with children are cut off from drinking water every year. We find it impossible for this to happen and want the law to be amended so that children never have to run out of drinking water. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Does he wish to enter into consultation with his fellow Member? It is in another policy area? Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the Social Affairs and Employment budget. We are talking about people who work, sometimes in very difficult circumstances, people who lose their jobs, people who are on the sidelines, sometimes generation by generation, people who are in debt, people with disabilities. That is what this budget is about. But let's talk about people in this room again. A human being, nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u74	Still neat in time, Mr. Renkema. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Palland on behalf of the CDA. I call Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I've already let you know I'm from a Hanseatic town, Kampen. During the time of the Hanzen, the IJsseldelta region around Zwolle, a region where the Rhineland mind is also strongly anchored, also developed the movement of the Modern Devotion with as founder Geert Grote and follower Thomas a Kempis, who resisted excrement in, for example, the church and advocated a modest and sober lifestyle with strong interconnectivity and community spirit in which one looks at one another. In addition, he founded communities in his city, focused on religious experience, study and work. They had a common household, provided for their own maintenance by working and provided care to the poor and the sick. Mr. Chairman. In times of unrest and uncertainty, such as in corona times when everything around us falls silent, caring for each other is the most important value that remains firmly standing: simply providing bread on the shelf and looking out for your neighbor who needs help. Work plays a crucial role in this respect for your own income provision, further development, social contacts and to be able to finance collective schemes for those in need of support. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the year, the Borstlap Committee's report and the WRR report indicated that better work was needed to get our current system up to date. We need to work towards greater autonomy in the workplace and to combat excesses and exploitation in the labour market, which are made possible by constructions and competition on working conditions. At the same time, we must ensure that social security, taxation and labour law systems are more closely linked, so that all workers contribute to a collective social security system and are then entitled to it. Such a basic scheme for workers also makes it easier, for example, to switch from zzp to employee status during your working life or to combine jobs without risks at social security holes or administrative thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u76	I hear the CDA spokesperson here saying that we need to look closely at each other and that we need to be busy with our neighbors. Working is very important. We have just seen the press conference and we now know that the misery continues for a very long time. Restaurants aren't gonna open. A lot of companies are still in great uncertainty. The third aid package and subsequent packages are being reduced. I have tabled motions and amendments on several occasions. The CDA voted against it. We have now been clarified in the press conference. Will the CDA today argue with the PVV in favour of non-destruction of the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u77	Thank you for the response and for the question. Last time, during the last debate we had with each other, I noticed that there was a constant talk of 'destructions'. And yes, they are in the NOW. That austerity had already been announced at the third emergency package. But we were just talking about supplementing that package. There is a lot of added value in the package that we discussed last week or two weeks. The TVL has been expanded and expanded. Accessibility has been increased. The power key for the Tozo has been postponed. He's gonna be off the hook for a while. In addition, we have found that we are in a very difficult situation, that it is still not as bright as we thought. We have therefore said: there are tightenings in the measures; cabinet, look at what is needed and whether the package is still appropriate. The cabinet then said: we are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u78	That's a super long answer, but it doesn't do you any good if you're a catering entrepreneur at home and now you hear you have to stay close again. Half of the catering business is already technically bankrupt. It is quite possible that the other half will go bankrupt as well. Workers who have to stay at home and who are about to lose their jobs will not hear the CDA say anything. They can't hear the CDA say anything. They do not hear that these jobs are being protected and they do not hear that these entrepreneurs are receiving support, because you are simply saying: no, we are not going to settle here today that these aid measures will not be reduced any further. Why do you do that? And what do you say to that hardworking Dutchman who has to look at this from a party that is always supposed to have a lot to do with entrepreneurs and the middle class?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u79	To this I say the same thing as I have just said, namely that a broader perspective is being offered and that it is not just about austerity, as you say. In addition to the package we already had, we also adopted a large package of accompanying policies, precisely to help prevent people from falling between shore and ship, for example by ensuring that they are accompanied from work to work. The cabinet has also made a commitment to see whether or not we should implement the adjustment that will take place on 1 January. Over the past period, we have constantly experienced that the cabinet has an open ear and eye on a weekly basis with employers and employees. There has also been a reasonable examination of the requests that we have made as Chambers and the motions that we have tabled. Changes have also been made to the policy, for example with regard to the group criterion and the postponement of the capital test. That's what they're looking at. I am confident that, at the request of the Chamber, the cabinet will also present a reasonable proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u80	Your last question, Mr. De Jong. I think Mr De Graaf might get angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u81	I have discussed it, I have had discussions and we agree that it is extremely important to put this question here. And why? Because there are hundreds of thousands of jobs at stake and there is no time to lose. The CDA can nod yes and say 'I understand and I say to that entrepreneur that it is a broader package', but it simply doesn't do him any good. I didn't say it wasn't right that there are packages. I think it is very good that there are packages, but I do not like the fact that there are indeed austerities being questioned. Entrepreneurs experience austerity. Zzp'ers experience austerities. And I'm talking about the Tozo at first instance and what it looks like now. I want us to take care of it today. We'll check the cabinet. Why are you waiting so long? Why do entrepreneurs and employees have to wait so long before they are finally helped, if they are already being helped? Why don't you just tell me what you want today? And why don't you take the opportunity to finish, Mr President-in-Office, from the amendment that is before you to at least restore the NOW and the Tozo, at least to ensure that we try to protect those hundreds of thousands of jobs, that we don't cause more bankruptcies and that we don't get more people out on the street? It's the least you can do, isn't it? Just give that a clear and good answer for all those people sitting at home expecting something from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u82	Sure. That's what I always try to do. I always try to offer good perspective, listen carefully to what is being changed here and also look at it with an open ear and eye. The reason why I am not doing so at your request is because we have also heard from employers that, for example, the NOW measures can be a threshold. We've had a lot of discussion about how you can't make adjustments to your staff. This could be a threshold for parties to choose not to use it. We don't want to. I think it is important that we look with employers and employees at what is best we can do. Finally, we also had a reaction from the CPB on the impact of the aid measures. They have prevented a domino effect on the labour market. They have also indicated that it is important for companies to adapt to changing demand. It is therefore also sensible that the aid package should focus more on adaptation and retraining. That is what we need to look at in conjunction with each other. The challenge here is to keep as many people in work as possible and to provide income support. The question of how we do that is also up to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I stayed with the WRR report. This indicates a number of trends, including intensification in terms of the speed and nature of the work. The workload is perceived as high, especially in the public sector. Almost half of the workers in the Netherlands experience a lack of autonomy, while more freedom to complete the work as they see fit is a buffer against this intensification. Many self-employed people indicate that it is precisely this autonomy that is one or perhaps even the most important reason to start for themselves, for example in order to better combine work, private and care tasks at home. The number of burnouts among young people is increasing. They often experience pressure and uncertainty. But also measuring productivity more and more accurately through registrations, algorithms and digital analyses that can have consequences for your reward increases the pressure. This also applies to always being accessible by answering e-mails and calls outside working time. Designing autonomy in the workplace is a challenge in times when flexibilisation, technologisation and intensification of work are forcing us. New technologies change our work and our lives. They offer opportunities to work time- and place-independently, but also challenges. In time- and place-independent work we also come to work at home, which has now taken a huge flight through corona. This is an outcome in certain cases, including in the future. But does regulation fit in sufficiently? Employers are prepared to provide a homework allowance, for example, instead of travel expenses. What does this mean for tax purposes? Can a homework allowance be set up under tax exemption? Employers are legally responsible for a good and safe workplace, but they are less aware of this in the home situation. It is a joint responsibility of employers and employees to agree on this, the Minister also noted in a response to the NIS. Can the Minister indicate whether the current legislation provides enough for this? There are examples of home working protocols drawn up jointly by employers and employees. Is this instrument sufficiently well known or, for example, does it deserve a more detailed basis in the area of occupational regulation? How does the Minister or the Secretary of State view this? Then self-employed. Unfortunately, this period has not been able to provide more clarity and therefore more certainty. A web module is being developed with which the Minister wants to run a pilot. We received a letter yesterday. But what criteria do we apply for this pilot and when did it succeed? We hear that there are always varying outcomes, or results with which we are all not entirely happy, for example that the pizza courier would be an entrepreneur and not the interim manager. Shouldn't we also have the discussion about who we should and shouldn't qualify as self-employed, before we make consequences for the web module? Has the Belgian model been considered, with a number of criteria and possibly sector-specific additional criteria, including a presumption of evidence? In addition, a question about the enforcement Moratorium on the DBA Act. As a Chamber, we have previously spoken about maintaining in the event of malice, and we have also adopted the Palland motion. Additional capacity was also made available. How's this going? Is the Tax Administration already operating in notorious sectors where the use of self-employed persons to a large extent is being made in a way that we all recognise the vulnerability of? Mr. Chairman. We want to bet on more permanent contracts. Employers are needed for this, and then we must also keep the employership attractive. But especially small employers indicate that they do not or no longer see the risks and regulations, and that is worrying. In 2018, the Chamber of Commerce found that for three out of tenzzp's financial risks prevent them from hiring staff. Also not being able to find qualified staff is experienced. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that, at a time when we are jumping for employment, we need to work on incentives to encourage entrepreneurs to actually take the step fromzzp'er to employer? The BIK will be intended for entrepreneurs with staff, but does the Minister see anything in exploring a growth incentive for the self-employed? The CDA is thinking of a bonus for hiring a first employee on a permanent contract. This will stimulate entrepreneurship and the growth of start-ups. Finally, on the subject of zzp. There is a long-standing issue ofzzp'ers with an aov-AOW-hiate. These are people who were ill and were receiving benefits via an aov and then faced with the increase in the AOW age. Last year I drew attention to this with Mr Van Kent. Following the SEO report and a good round table with several colleagues recently, Mr Van Kent and I are now laying down this in a short own-initiative paper. It seems to us appropriate to discuss this separately with the committee and the minister in order to explore the possibilities for a solution or a concession. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the aforementioned reports...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u85	Yes, I see Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u86	On the previous point, I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u87	Yes, it is. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u88	In the spirit of this good cooperation with the SP, I have previously expressed concerns with Mr Heerma and now with Mrs Palland about maintaining people who are not actually self-employed. That group is growing. There have been many initiatives, including from the Chamber, because nothing is actually coming from the cabinet. A motion by Mrs Palland has been adopted, and just before the summer, a motion by Mr Van Kent and myself has been adopted, which states that the cabinet must come forward with proposals at this time to at least save this group from all kinds of structures they should not be in. What else could we do, instead of moving on endlessly to the next cabinet period, to do something about this? I would say: let's start to maintain on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u89	There is, of course, a reason why we suspended enforcement at the time. That was also because it brought with it a lot of unrest. I think that unrest can still be there and that this has a broader effect than we mean. That is why I referred earlier to the motion on obvious malice. There was capacity for that, too. Then I'm thinking, how's that going? Let us focus on those sectors where we all say there are the vulnerabilities. Let's send in the tax authorities and the inspection and get them to engage in the conversation, and have them maintained in the event of repeated abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u91	Mr. Chairman. In addition to the aforementioned reports, there was a third report which was looked forward to with interest, including by the SP. That was the report of the Roman Commission on migrant workers. The Chamber will discuss this at a later date, but can the Minister give an initial response? Does the Minister share the CDA's conclusion that we need to address poor working conditions, abuse and exploitation of migrant workers soon? And are we going to take this cabinet period steps to counter malpractice in the sector? Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has been affecting the whole world all year. First of all, I would like to thank you for your commitment and those of your colleagues, the relevant ministries, the implementing organisations and also the polder parties. The emergency packages that have been made available with great effort and great speed make the difference for a lot of people and entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, many have lost their jobs and will increase them further. And, of course, there are still bottlenecks in supporting workers, for example border entrepreneurs. What about the implementation of the motion that asked to monitor the situation there? What is the status of the discussion with the European Commission on access to the Tozo or any other solution for this group of entrepreneurs? Mr. Chairman. For corona, youth unemployment was at its lowest point. Six months later, youth unemployment rises faster than general unemployment. We see young people stalling, unable to find an internship or lose their side jobs. Youth unemployment also has a longer-term impact. Young people can by not having a job and thus having little income, more difficult to rent or buy a house. They postpone relationships, have a higher student debt due to the loan system and feel mentally worse. The SER Youth Report High expectations already found this in 2019 and corona has weakened the position of young people. With the third package, the cabinet strongly focuses on accompanying policies: retraining and tackling youth unemployment. How will this 1.4 billion be used in practice? What happens to the 300 million for youth unemployment? What are the plans? Can the crisis jobs contribute here? In order to avoid a scar generation, there will need to be a movement in several policy areas and departments. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet plans include resources for recovery, partly in existing but also in new arrangements. How can the existing instruments and arrangements be used to the maximum, such as the Twents Fund for Vakmanschap and Upgrade Yourself from the Zwolle region? How can we prevent energy from leaking into the parallel setting up of new structures if we can exploit and develop the existing ones? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has an almost national coverage network of business schools, often rooted in the region and well-known with the local labour market situation. More and more these are partnerships between companies and regional training institutions. As far as the CDA is concerned, we use this network in the major task of guiding people from the corona crisis from work to work, from surplus sectors to deficit sectors, with extra attention being paid to vulnerable groups such as young people and early school leavers. The CDA would like business schools to be included in the social package, for example as part of the impetus for practical learning in the MBO. I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, we ask the Minister whether there is amendment No Wiersma/Heerma at the Craft Academy. 34 perspective can be offered now that the grant expires over some time. And before that it was an initiative of Van 't Wout; it was. At least it's a resistant VVD-CDA ratio. Mr. Chairman. Finally, otherwise, I shall go through my time, we repeat our plea that a part-time WW scheme is necessary and offers a more structural solution in order to cope with economic setbacks. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Palland/Tielen motion? 130 (35420), who requested it? Have you started yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u92	Thank you, Mrs Palland. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see I've had a minute less without speaking, but I think I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u94	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u95	Mr. Chairman. In a village in southern Africa, a man had stolen corn from his neighbor. Of course, this is also prohibited in Africa. The neighbor was going to complain to the village elder. The village elder called a meeting to consider this matter and asked: why did you steal corn from your neighbor? He replied, "Because I was hungry and wanted to feed my family! My neighbor has enough corn. He won't miss a little corn." The village elder withdrew to think and the next day he called the village together to hear the verdict. "Stolen is not allowed," he said, and he sentenced the thief to compensate for the damage and making public excuses to his neighbor. "But I also condemn ourselves as a community, because we have not seen this man being hungry or because we have seen it, but have done nothing to help him. I condemn the village to get this man and his family back on their feet." Mr. Chairman. This story comes from the Ubuntu culture, a culture that is best described with the phrase: I am because we are. A human being is only a human being by other people. Only a human being is nothing and a human being can't do anything. Without food, drinking and a home it is not possible, but neither without an arm around you and feeling important or without the knowledge that others are waiting for you, no, even depend on you. Mr. Chairman. It's clear to me. Security of existence in the sense of the absence of poverty has not even been well arranged for everyone in this country. An affordable home is not a matter of course for everyone and we have arranged our social security in such a way that no one is starving, but it was. Mr. Chairman. In his book on pauperism, Alexis de Tocqueville wrote about the difference in poverty and the fight against poverty between England and Spain of his time. England was at that time the richest country in the world and Spain was not determined. He noticed that the poor in Spain were helped as a matter of course and in any case were part of the community, while the poor in England were entitled to government support. In some ways, this seemed better. They had the right to financial support, but at the same time this support cut people off from the community. People with money looked down on people with no money. After all, they paid taxes for them. Arms thus became a cost to the individual rather than members of the same community who needed help. People in poverty didn't have the idea to matter anymore. They were kept alive, and that's it. The fact that the money people received could have had a relationship with someone else was no longer a matter of course. The situation in the Netherlands of the 21st century is a bit similar. No one is going to die, but a growing group of people are getting farther away from society, so to speak, is becoming less and less part of the community. As I said, for the CDA, it's clear. The world like The Tocqueville that saw in England is not the world we would like to live in in this country. Everyone, rich or poor, matters, or should, and feel that way. And people who have been better off should stand up for these people on their own. Not because these people are pathetic, but because they are part of the same community and also have to contribute. And people who receive help should also be aware: this is not a free matter of course. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the first point. For the CDA, participation, participation, should be at the heart of the social domain. People who do not participate or who feel they no longer matter and who are not waiting for them are sicker, unhappy and live less long than people who do not. For us, that is unacceptable. That is why we have written an initiative, together with the Socialist Party, to ensure that anyone who cannot get a job in the market has a right to work, a reason to get out of bed. In our view, this requires a nationwide network of social work companies. And yes, that costs money. But it is much more profitable: it saves a lot of misery for people, and literally billions when it comes to benefits, care, debt and solitude. Could the Secretary of State reflect on this? In response to my questions on the social security sector, the Secretary of State explains that there are indeed short-term deficits, but they disappear in the medium term, in order to switch to surpluses in the long term. Can the Secretary of State go into this further? And can he indicate that he is doing everything he can to prevent the current companies from falling apart, while almost all the parties here in this Chamber are aware of the importance of this? And can he go into the corona resources and the current distribution of participation funds, as the VVD just said? The initiative paper that we wrote with Mr Van Dijk will be published officially later this week. But the sneak preview is now coming for the Secretary of State, as the messenger might want to give it to you. Mr. Chairman. The village elder in the story resented the community for not knowing that someone from their midst was forced to steal corn because he was hungry and could not feed his children, or at least that they had not taken action. At least we know for sure that there are people in the misery. And not a few; literally hundreds of thousands are in trouble and also have payment problems. That was the case before the corona crisis, and it will certainly not get any better in the near future. Investigating the SCP, the Nibud, the NVVK, the Institute of Public Values, the Debt Lab and so on, and so on: the picture is clear. And now that we know, we're responsible for it together. Mr. Chairman. Almost every party in this Chamber has an increase in the minimum wage in the electoral programme. And I do understand that we cannot take care of this quickly, although I can see that the motions by GroenLinks are coming in a moment's time. But after the elections, all parties can say that this is a point that should be settled, in conjunction with it, so that there is an increase in net disposable income, and no settlement with surcharges or I know what. Then the homelessness. Last year, during the budgetary procedure, I asked for an examination of the impact of the cost-sharing standard. It was a long wait and a lot of questions, but eventually the investigation is there and it's in our possession. And I am shocked; there appears to be a clear link between this cost sharing standard, the way we use it, and the homelessness among young people. Now that we know that, we're responsible for this, too. Divosa and the G4 are also done with this way of working with the cost sharing standard, and they have alternative proposals. Could the Secretary of State ever reflect on that? Fraud must be combated; that is perfectly clear. But a mistake isn't fraud yet. We already know. And from people with the least potential, we ask the most. So that's what most mistakes are for. These people are in trouble because their benefits are being cut, and they may also get a fine. Can we stop it from making such a decision automatically? Can we have that taken explicitly by the alderman, rather than "so-called computer"? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. It takes a little more effort, but a little more customization. Another reason that people get into trouble is the four-week search period that applies to anyone who has to apply for benefits, including vulnerable young people. Can't we just get rid of that? Divosa asks for it, municipalities ask for it, the CDA asks for it. And not only for vulnerable young people, but certainly for ex-convicts who just got out of prison. This could reduce the recidivism by a reasonable factor. The same applies to those who are to be admitted to a ggz institution as to those in prison: their benefit is suspended. "Logically," you'd say, 'cause what do you need that benefit for if you live somewhere else? But that also means that the apartment is gone as soon as someone can get out. And again, a homeless man was born. Isn't that the way it's gonna be? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Last year I tabled a motion to cancel the irrecoverable increases in government debt and to see what that does. That was a good idea. I think it only costs money on paper, because irrecoverable is simply impossible to collect. You'll never see that money again. Commercial companies would have rejected such debts for a fraction of the paper value for a long time, but the government does not. I think that's stupid. That's what I asked for last year. I haven't heard much about it since, so I'm gonna ask you again. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. As a follow-up, the Debt Lab wants to restructure people's debts by having them purchased within a public-private partnership and at a normal rate of interest, let's say 3% of the debt. That makes people's lives a lot clearer and easier. What is the state secretary's position on such cooperations? Personally, I would say that I could invest my money at a rate of 3% return, when I really couldn't get that from the bank. Besides, I'd help. Maybe it's for the Secretary of State, too. Can he comment on the ridiculously high interest rates that commercial companies are allowed to raise? I said a few things together with Jasper van Dijk last year. Finally, Mr President. This committee actually excels in great consensus. We all want what's best for people. We've achieved a few things together. The coalition agreement was good. Friends and enemies actually agree on that. I'm not entirely disgruntled myself. A certain kind of friend, such as Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party, cheers in enthusiasm from his bench. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I know, but he won't come. I'm not unhappy myself. The accumulation of fines, removals due to debts, simplification of unwound feet and so on: we are far from there, but we have improved the world a little bit. Mr. Chairman. I started my speech with a story from the Ubuntu culture: I am, because we are. And so it is. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u96	I liked the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u98	That's good. In communities, especially in those cultures, you also see that there is a lot of respect for the elderly. I just missed that part a little bit with Mr Peters. Mr Peters and I are often on the road together. We were also with KBO-Brabant, with the working group on poverty and debt there. Today, a message has come out that 25% of the elderly live in poverty in Zwolle. That's a lot, isn't it? I missed that part with Mr Peters. Are we gonna miss that at the CDA? Isn't that something to pay attention to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u99	I had ten minutes plus one. You don't miss this. You've seen the CDA's election program. It's quite extensive and it's still growing, I can tell you. It hasn't been established yet either. You're not gonna miss this. Perhaps you have missed that the wisest person in this whole story, in this culture, is the elder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u100	I am glad that at least this is being listened to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u101	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Peters' fine words about charity and community spirit. Also a nice message to the cabinet, in my opinion, when we look at what is needed in our society in connection with the corona crisis, but also in connection with the bitter poverty that still affects a lot of people, including pensioners and the elderly in our country. There has been little talk of this in this debate, but there is a risk of massive reductions in pensions. And not only that, if you're working in a store right now, being a cop or a teacher, or if you're working in care, you're going to have a lot of beatings on each other. First of all, you get to deal with higher premiums, which means there's less room to raise wages. Secondly, you have a lower pension base. You're gonna pay more for less. The chance that your pension or pension you're building will rise with the prices has become nil. The chances of these pensions being reduced again are real. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, after the years we have had to deal with this Minister for Social Affairs, that is something that has yet to be resolved, and very quickly. Because this disaster is happening under our eyes. The possible reductions in pensions are based on the situation at the end of December, so time is running out. That is why the real call is for the elderly and pensioners, as well as those who are building up pensions, to be given the opportunity to build up that pension, among other things, accounting rules, so that pension funds no longer have to be poor, but pensions can rise again with prices. Mr. Chairman. And how bizarre is it that, while all this is going on, pension fund managers, employees and top executives are filling their pockets? You know the SP has started the Greatest Graaier election. We have nominated a large group of people who all earn far, but also really well above the beaming standard, sometimes even €600,000. I say "deserve," but I mean take money. 'Cause they don't deserve it. They work in a sector with money from others, without running any risk. In fact, if things go wrong, they often get a discharge or a golden handshake. The Greatest Graaier Election is still running. You can vote via SP.nl/greater. A lot of people have already voted. The top three won't surprise a lot of people. In any case, it is the top man of a pension organisation that organises pensions around care. On two is the person responsible for the pensions in the metal. The third person is responsible for the pensions of our teachers, policemen and our people in the Defense Department. If they cannot set limits, we must agree here that these limits must apply. This election is still going on. I would like to call here for at least the first step towards achieving the beaming standard and for the Top Income Standards Act to apply to the pension sector. I will make a proposal to that effect in the second period. I really hope for a positive response, because no one can explain this. This money belongs to pensioners and workers, but it disappears into the pockets of people who really do not deserve it. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we can also support the purchasing power of all those pensioners and elderly people in a different way. Much has already been said about raising the minimum wage. As we know, the AOW benefit is linked to it, at least if it is up to a lot of parties, including those who, in my opinion, no longer know that they supported a motion from the SP three weeks ago to maintain the link between the minimum wage and the AOW. I see the VVD looking desperate. The Van Gerven/Van Kent motion, you can google on it for a while; Mr Jasper van Dijk, who has now also been adopted in the air, has been adopted in order to maintain that link. I see the VVD in despair in the benches, but you voted in favour, because that motion was adopted unanimously. If we are going to increase the minimum wage, we are going to increase the AOW benefits. This is a huge improvement in the purchasing power of our pensioners. It is good that the VVD also voted for it, contrary to what is in its electoral programme. I'll hand over the motion to you later. It is, of course, significant that you do not know what you voted for here and at the same time argue that the minimum wage should not be increased this period, and even be decoupled from benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u103	This calls for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u104	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u105	A very brief response as far as I am concerned, Mr President. I didn't get the word "AOW" in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u106	Then I notice you're in favour of it. In the second term, I will make a proposal to increase the minimum wage, and hence the AOW payments, by 2021, because that is the year this budget is about. I am counting on the support of the VVD. That would be a big step for all those pensioners and all those elderly people in our country who have been earning income for 12 years that does not go up with prices, because among other things the VVD supports a cabinet that implements policies that make pension funds pretend to be poor. Mr. Chairman. Another major point, also mentioned by the CDA, is the purchasing power and the problems faced by people who had an income regime to have an income in the event of incapacity for work. It stops at the end of 65 years. Then they have another hole, because the AOW age has risen. Indeed, we come together with the CDA with an initiative paper. It will probably be officially submitted to the Chamber this week, so that we can talk about it quickly. Then we can rectify this great injustice, which we indeed called attention to together with the CDA last year. Another great injustice affects the group ofzzp'ers, not only around that AOW-hole but above all because this minister, as well as various parties, including the VVD and Mr Van Weyenberg, really emphasised when this cabinet took office: we are going to solve that sham self-employment and those rotten places, and we are going to ensure that people get what they are entitled to. Deliveroo, the mealman, is a clear example of this. Mr Heerma is there then... Mr Wiersma, too, by the way. All of them, Chamberwide, everyone thought it needed to be solved. There were agreements in the coalition agreement. I note that this Minister carried very large piles of paper from one office to another. I note that we have six progress reports and we have laws that have been made, consulted and then withdrawn. I note that nothing at all, but nothing at all, is happening. Except that the group that is the victim of all these constructions, grows and keeps growing. That is what this minister has achieved in recent years for all thosezzp'ers, for all those people who now deliver meals without insurance if there is an accident and without having an income if they become unemployed or become ill. Mr. Chairman. Then what's going on? Doesn't this minister care at all? Is he too lazy to do anything about it? I can't imagine any of that. But what's going on? Is it the lobby from the VVD, from Uber, from Deliveroo, from... What's going on here? I see the Minister laughing, but it is of course bizarre that we all said here years ago that this needs to be resolved, but that in the meantime paper is being pushed around and that now the conclusion is: yes, a next cabinet should see what they are going to do about it. In fact, a committee has been appointed... In addition, you can now ask whether that committee has been appointed to help move this forward. Is it a sort of apology committee, so that it can be said now: yes, we have got the report, but it is up to another cabinet to perhaps do something about it? Yes, we start in January with some kind of pilot, but that's just a tool, because that doesn't make the distinction between a realzzp'er and a dummy self-employed person at all. There's no maintenance either. Yeah, maybe by October 2021. In short, this minister is completely empty-handed. He was warned, not only by the Chamber but also by the Council of State, in 2018. That said clearly: do not submit this law, the Labour Market Act in balance, without doing anything about the position ofzzp'ers, because otherwise you make it cheaper for clients and employers to hirezzp'ers in relation to employees. That's what we're seeing now. So you've been warned. I see the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u107	Don't pay attention to the Minister. Go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u108	Well, I'll keep an eye on this minister, because I think that's important. This Minister, when he had just taken office, said here in the Chamber that he was going to solve this. He said that we made an agreement in the coalition agreement and I am going to implement it. Now we are many years later, and it turns out that this minister has just put it out for himself, is empty-handed and has done nothing for these people. In the meantime, therefore, there are people at work, without having any right or insurance. They work for a minimum income when they should have just been an employee. Mr. Chairman. Then the position of thezzp'ers who have now stopped working on behalf of the government. In the interests of all of us, and in the interests of public health, people have been called upon to take care of the sound installations, for example, photographers, others who pursue professions that can no longer be carried out in accordance with the corona rules of this cabinet. People understand the public health measures, but they do not understand that if they then ask for aid, for help, they will get nothing at all. If you have a partner with a minimum income and your income falls completely away, the household income is halved, but then you get nothing at all; no more support. That's inexplicable. Unfortunately, we have received enough examples via email and telephone of people who have already been paid wages, who have to turn to the food bank, who have to sell the materials for business. These people are not going bankrupt and are not getting grounded financially because they have a bad business or are doing bad work, but because they are offering a sacrifice for all of us, for public health. Then the last thing you can expect from the cabinet is that it leaves these people at a closed door. Mr. Chairman. Then the number of flex workers. The Minister may say in his response that this number has decreased. Yes, that number has decreased, but that is because the support packages made it possible for employers who were in the government infusion to fire employees with flex contracts. Dozens of thousands of people with flex contracts, especially temporary workers, have lost their jobs. I would like to ask the Minister to what extent this is related to the NOW, to the support packages, and to what extent the Minister is prepared to include in the aid packages that companies keep everyone in. I have tabled an amendment to regulate this, because if we use Community money to pay the wages of everyone, of all workers, then we must also ensure that all workers stay inside. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has really exposed the shortcomings of our social security system. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect on this, to indicate what shortcomings he has seen and what shortcomings need to be resolved and filled. 'Cause I think it's too easy to say right now that there's a support package, so you shouldn't pretend like there's nothing there. Then you look away from a very large group of people who are really out of the boat and what we have to take care of with each other. I would therefore urge the Minister to make a package for this and to ensure that all the people in the Netherlands who are dealing with these problems can count on a government that is there for them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u109	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, also on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u110	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kent's speech is like a house, and I can only say that the speech made by Mr Van Kent's predecessor, Mr Peters, was also excellent. But I am not saying that of all those who have spoken before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u111	They don't get compliments. But if you compliment me, it will not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u112	Oh? If I compliment you, isn't that going to end my speaking time? Mr President, have I ever said what I think of you? Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about momentum. Because there is momentum on two important issues. They have already passed. namely the minimum wage and the social employment provision. Corona has caused a great deal of suffering, but also puts the spotlights on a number of things, for example on the vital professions. They've been very excited for the past few months, and rightly so. Applause has been given for the care workers, initially, but you already know: applause you cannot pay the rent. That's why we've been trying for months to raise healthcare salaries, but the coalition refuses to do so, to my regret. Mr. Chairman. There are more than 2 million people who earn a salary that is basically at or around the minimum wage. These are compartments and people in the transport, care and welfare sector. Very important professions, "crucial professions" you can also call it. In addition, there are about a million people living in poverty in the Netherlands, including around 300,000 to 400,000 children. How crazy must it be! And there are also some 250,000 working people in poverty. "The working poor," I thought that was something of the United States, but also in the Netherlands we have people who are just working and at the same time living in poverty according to current definitions. Actually, I find that embarrassing. Does the Secretary of State agree, I ask him. At the same time, the number of millionaires and billionaires is increasing. So we see an increase in wealth and at the same time we see an increase in poverty. On that point, too, I would ask the government: do you share the view that this is painful, that this inequality is increasing while, as a political apology, I said first as a government; that is what I am saying next year, that growing inequality should not be accepted? This is undesirable in society in all kinds of ways. That is bad for cohesion. This leads to more crime, which leads to more demand for care. You have to make sure that incomes are reasonably proportional. Mr. Chairman. The legal minimum wage is no longer sufficient. It was introduced 50 years ago. That was a very nice achievement, but it didn't grow along with the prosperity. As a result, we can see that an average family or person's income has not grown over the last 40 years. That's what Rabobank's research shows. This means that the minimum wage is not always sufficient. You also know the investigation of the Nibud. You have also responded to this recently, for which I am grateful. I would also ask you to respond to this in this debate, because I think that the Nibud, the National Institute for Budget Information, is very helpful in making it clear to us what is going on with poverty and low incomes. It's an important institution. The president was at Nieuwsuur the other day and said, "I'm not doing well right now." People in welfare and also people with minimum wage aren't getting around well. Especially when you have older children, you're short of money every month. What is the government going to do about it? Mr. Chairman. You may have already heard, but the SP has a very concrete solution to this. That's the increase in minimum wage. Because if you raise the minimum wage, you also increase the welfare and then you also increase the AOW. Mr Van Kent has already said so. That's why I have the privilege of giving the government, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, exclusive now, this copy of our bill. It's now with the Legislative Office. That's what it's doing for a real chamberpiece. But I'll give the government a copy first. You know how I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u113	Mr Peters, you have the floor from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u114	That's me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u115	That's him! And I am very grateful to him for that. I didn't realize you were coming up with a whole proposal, but I hear you talking about the minimum wage, and I know it's in the election programme with the VVD, whether or not it's linked to the benefits. I know it's in the election program with D66, but then it has to do with surcharges. I know everyone thinks the same thing, but then just a little bit different. I would like to ask: isn't it possible for you to come up with a motion next to this bill with something from a trial or something in it, and see if we can all find what we're all finding here, pile it up and brew something normal? For I immediately feel the motions coming up saying "to raise the minimum wage by 10%, and to go to the order of the day." It'll be rejected, great movies will be created, but nothing else will happen. So that question is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u116	I'm seriously embarrassed. That, of course, Mr Peters is asking me to work together for once! We've just submitted such a lovely own-initiative paper. If I can interpret his question in such a way that he says "does so at minimum wage," who am I to be against it? He's right, of course. There's momentum. From SP to VVD parties say that minimum wage can be raised. So, yes, who am I to put aside your proposal? I would say that tomorrow we have a kind of rest day between the term of the Chamber and that of the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u117	Not for everyone!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u118	No, it's not for the chairman; it's for the president. But then let's get our heads together, Mr. Peters, and come to a nice proposal!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u119	Maybe we can involve all the other parties who have similar things in their election programme. Otherwise we have exactly the same thing again: then it's beautiful, but it really doesn't work in one day. But we're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u120	I think that is an excellent proposal. I really hope that we can take steps now. In this context, I would now like to pay particular attention to Mrs Nijkerken, in other words to the VVD. I want to warn the VVD. If you're not careful, you'll be alone. Then you can get 40 seats next year... In the polls it looks that way and that is of course very nice for the VVD, but SP up to and including CDA will then leave with a great proposal for an increase in the minimum wage. Because yes, Mrs Nijkerken just said: "We do not support that higher minimum wage, not at the moment. Maybe after the elections, but at least not with a link." I was very sorry to hear that. By the way, for her, I brought in the motion that Mr Van Kent was just talking about, the motion in part No. 106 of October. "Declares that the AOW benefit remains linked to the minimum wage." Supported by the VVD. So we have that inside and the VVD also proposes to raise the minimum wage. So what are you paying attention to, Mrs. Nijkerken? Join us! We are going to make a nice motion to take steps now, because without fooling around, of course it is on quite a subject. It's about helping people in poverty out of trouble, especially if you do that with a link. That's about minimum wage. Then we'll move on to the social work facility. Mr Peters has just offered a great initiative paper, which I was allowed to make with him. Also there is momentum, I have a strong impression. Many parties have come to the conclusion that the Participation Act is not a success in all respects, to put it mildly. Last week, there was a message from Cedris, the umbrella of social work companies, saying that the deal on 125,000 jobs didn't end at all. It's 12 grand at the most. So these are destructive figures. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau says: the Participation Act has failed, the people have not come to work. The people with a disability are sitting at home on the couch, while I think we have a duty, if we want to be a civilisation, to give these people a nice job. Yesterday I was with Mr Peters in Veghel at IBN, a wonderful social work facility. In other words, that is where the municipalities managed to maintain a beautiful facility. Beautiful things are also made there, from mopeds to car mats. That is where money is made, there is turnover, also by people with disabilities, and that is going very well. But that doesn't happen in all the municipalities. Go to Almelo, I'd say. There's Soweco, threatening to fall apart. Why don't you go to Eindhoven? Why don't you go to Groningen? I can go on for a while: social work facilities are in difficulties in many places. That's what CDA and SP want to limit. We think these facilities are too good for them to be lost. And we would therefore ask the Minister to maintain that capital, that expertise and that infrastructure. The Economic and Social Council has already recommended this. The plan of the Participation Act, however well thought out at the time, simply failed. The people came home and the social services were lost. We shouldn't let that happen. Then there's the cost-sharing standard. A person with a social security allowance who takes someone else in because, for example, he is self-employed is reduced on his benefit. The same applies to a welfare mother with a resident disabled child over 21. Extremely painful. This so-called household care fine provides a growing number of homeless young people, and this is also confirmed in the investigation following the motion of CDA and SP. The government has always said that municipalities should offer tailor-made services, but this is hardly being applied. I would like to see this family allowance abolished today. But if the Secretary of State does not want to do so, I ask him to at least exempt people with disabilities, carers and young people from the cost-sharing standard. I know he's looking for adjustments himself. So I'd like to look at an improvement, because of the effect people get kicked out of their homes. Parents evict their children because otherwise they will be cut off on their benefits. That increases homelessness. I'm sure the Secretary of State doesn't like that. The much too low youth benefit and the four-week search period also lead to homelessness, for example the Stichting Schworfjongeren, the Salvation Army, Valente and the National Clients Council. The youth allowance of €250 per month is far too low to survive. You can't rent a place like that. The young adults pay adult prices for living and maintenance. If the parents join, it may still be to be seen, but young people who do not have that kind of parents suffer disastrous consequences. Give these young adults a good start. Make that youth benefit a full benefit and cancel that search period. I have tabled a motion to that effect before, with D66 and CDA. But here, too, the Secretary of State points to customization and the municipalities that have to do it. I think that's way too noncommittal. You really should offer a decent benefit to these young people by default, if you want to prevent them from getting out on the street. Mr. Chairman. Finally, parental leave. Steps will be taken, but only 50% will be reimbursed. With this you run the risk of becoming a toy for rich fathers or rich parents; with partner leave it can become a toy for rich fathers and for parental leave for rich parents. Of course, we, as SP, do not think this is desirable. We want it to be widely accessible. Research also shows that people say: if you pay 100%, then I'm going to take advantage of it. That's what parents with lower incomes say. Hence my plea for 100% compensation. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u121	It's a roaring story from Mr. Van Dijk; I have to admit that. It sounds really good, but it also sounds a bit like I'm walking along a thick Porsche walk with my middle daughter, who likes beautiful cars. She'll see us driving it. But then I look at her and I say, "Who's gonna pay for that?" Yeah, she'll point at me, huh? So my question to Mr. Van Dijk is: who's gonna pay for all these beautiful plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u122	I figured who's gonna ask that question? Is the SGP actually in the list that wants a higher minimum wage? Or do you join the VVD? 'Cause then you'll be outside...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u123	Mr President, I thought I was asking the questions and Mr Van Dijk is now answering me. He's gonna like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u124	But he needs a run-up before he answers. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u125	Compliments for your empathy, Mr. Chairman. I need a run! That's it. Now your question, Mr. Stoffer. No, that's gotta be affordable. As Mr Stoffer knows, the SP's proposals have always been taken into account and we demand a solid financial basis for every proposal we make. You know it; all the proposals are passed on financially. So you can rest assured that we will ensure that every proposal we make is properly covered. Then you have to think of an increase in the income tax and the millionaire tax. That sort of thing. That's where we get the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u126	I hear it. It's from the business community. It comes from people who may have built something up. Are the middle incomes spared? That's an important question I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u127	Yeah, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u128	I am very pleased to see it and I am very curious to see what will come out of it. But I have to say honestly: it still sounds a bit like that Porsche story I just had, to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u129	Well, there's nothing wrong with a beautiful Porsche.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u130	Really? SP, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u131	Sure, sure. I ask Mr Stoffer in his term to answer the question whether he supports a higher minimum wage, because it could be that my interruptions are over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u132	That's what you're doing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u133	I'm making a pre-investment right now. I would like Mr Stoffer to join us in this fine motion that is in the making for a higher minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u134	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66. Yes, a Porsche!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u135	Mr. Chairman. I like to hear where I can pick it up. Mr. Chairman. The fate of rulers is that they always get much less attention to the things that go well than to the things that the political parties still want. I can reassure the rulers: that will also be the case in my contribution. This is the last budget discussion of a missionary cabinet, so I have, of course, also looked at what has been achieved. There is a lot of beauty in this: the Labour Market Act in balance, the pension agreement, paid parental leave and partner leave. That parental leave is not yet at the level of pay, which my group wants most, but it will be; a nice first floor has been built. There is money for personal services and for more inspection by the Labour Inspectorate. I am still sorely waiting for the law on discrimination in recruitment and selection, a crucial subject for my group in the coalition agreement. Compared to last year, we are in very different times here. We are now in a deep crisis because of corona. Here too, I would like to thank all the people in the implementation and at the Ministry of Justice, I would like to mention the municipalities which have made sure that the NOW scheme, which millions of employees have used, reduces the impact on flex workers and self-employed people of the unprecedented measures taken by this cabinet. That's not gonna be enough for everyone. That's not gonna save every job, unfortunately. But it is an unprecedented level of support and it was necessary. There will be more information about how we will proceed from 1 January in a few weeks, I hope within one and a half weeks, also given the fact that we have had to deal with a further tightening in recent weeks. If I see how we stand now, I can't imagine any austerity as of 1 January. At the same time, I know that six weeks ahead of this crisis is a very long-term prospect and that the rulers are talking to the social partners, so I really want to give them the opportunity to come up with good solutions. I look forward to the crisis jobs in particular. How are we going to do that? Oh, and to the quarantine package to help people go into quarantine. I would like to ask a specific question following the adoption of the motion by the Christian Union on additional support for sex workers who are now falling between shore and ship because they are working with a fictitious employment relationship. I would like to ask the Cabinet whether it would also like to look at artists and professional athletes when carrying out this motion. I received an interesting e-mail from the Kunstenbond which is often used with such a fictitious employment by groups who often get between shore and ship during the support measures. So if something happens here, then it could be looked at straight away whether this could also be helpful for these two groups, I ask, I think, the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We have now taken real steps towards a system change in the context of education in the crisis package. I would like to hear more about exactly how the 1.4 billion for the social package is being spent. Is it also possible, when it comes to training, the use of R & D funds, lifelong learning and work-to-work, which Mr Gijs van Dijk is probably also saying a lot about, to create real connections, where this crisis may have turned out to be the catalyst for a change that many of us would like to achieve? Mr. Chairman. As far as childcare is concerned, I would like to stress here at the Ministry of Social Affairs, the sponsor of the childcare allowance, that it is really time for a different approach in my view. There must be an end to the surcharges and the security of income for people on low incomes must be secured in a different way. My group has put forward proposals for this and many others have done so. As far as I am concerned, that is crucial. I'd like to ask a few questions. First of all, I have a question about free childcare, regardless of whether you're in favour of it. Does the cabinet believe that childcare is not only a care facility, but also an engine for the development of children? Would the cabinet say that childcare is not only a labour market tool, but also a development tool and, as far as my group is concerned, an instrument that you give every child? As far as my group is concerned, the approach to the allowances to ensure that we are giving income support in a different way fits indeed with an increase in the minimum wage, in such a way that the minimum wage increases and benefits also increases, but the minimum wage even more than the benefits so that you also make work pay more. That's how you hit two birds with one stone. I'll just stress that you have to solve those two things together. I believe that the increase in the minimum wage will be an essential element if we want to move towards a system without surcharges. We want to provide people with good income security. The minimum wage is one part of that. Higher benefits are included, as are the AOW and the assistance. But this also includes the fact that we are creating some sort of payable negative tax, as my group's proposal states. This is complex, not so much to introduce it as it is a lot simpler than it is now, but because it is a system change. But it's one we have to do. Mr. Chairman. On two points, I am disappointed. The first is equal pay. There has been a proposal from the Labour Party and a number of other parties for some time now. In fact, I had hoped that the cabinet would also pick up that glove and come up with its own proposal. Perhaps in a different form, perhaps not with the Icelandic model but with the English model, but I would have liked to weigh those two things. I see that just didn't happen. I'm sorry about that. My question is: why has no action been taken by the cabinet itself to ensure that equal work also produces equal pay? The Netherlands is not a frontrunner here. We have to do things to do about part-time. Moreover, free childcare and pay can both play an important role in this, but my group believes that we really need to do something about inequality, about discrimination on pay, because that is what it is at the end of the day. If a woman gets less than a man for the same job, that is discrimination in the labour market. I'd like to get a reaction from the cabinet. I hope that we will soon be discussing the proposal put forward by my fellow Members in the Chamber. Atzzp I would have liked to go further. As far as I am concerned, the coalition agreement still contains the right attitude: room for real entrepreneurs and, at the same time, ensuring that we provide some basic security and that we set a lower threshold for vulnerable people when it comes to false self-employment. The idea of the coalition agreement was that under a minimum rate you are supposed to be an employee with the protection that goes with it. That route has, to my great regret, failed to comply with European legislation. At the same time, I recall that the Minister indicated that many other countries have the same struggle as we do. Although it is not possible at this time, and this is a fact for now, I hope that this minister and his successors, whoever they may be, will continue to argue in favour of this. Is the Minister still working on this in Europe? How is the discussion going with the Commission? He said to us: we may see opportunities. Are there other countries on the side of the Minister? I still think this is a solution, because at the end of the day I want to take action against bogus structures, provide basic protection for all workers, regardless of the form of contract, and ensure that real entrepreneurs can opt for entrepreneurship themselves. I don't want to go back to the misery of the DBA Act. Mrs Palland already said that in her contribution. I'll repeat that after her. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the division into the labour market. I'm sure we'll have to bring flex closer together. We have taken important steps, but more is needed. We've had the Borstlap Committee's report. I'm asking for two things here. I would like to receive an initial response to Mr Roemer's fine advice, particularly with regard to temporary employment agencies. I am generally positive about what they are doing to give people opportunities in the labour market, but I want a response on two points. The first is that revolving door with contracts, which keeps going back to phase one. How does the Minister feel about that? Did he talk to the broadcasting industry about that? Then there is the second point. Has the Minister ever had an investigation into the impact of shortening the duration of the broadcasting clause? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to dwell on cancer and work. I have often drawn attention to this in this Chamber. A number of beautiful things have been achieved. Today, for example, I read that people can assure themselves that they will have a clean slate after a number of years. That's very important. I asked for this more than a year ago in Question Time, and that is now settled, more than a year later. That's very good. For example, people who have had cancer can buy a house much easier. But when it comes to occupational health care, I've been walking against a wall for years. I run into a wall because on SZW site they always say, no, that's VWS. I want it to be in that office next to the medical treatment, also the question of how you can keep doing your job. Because once people lose their jobs or stay home too long, it hurts after healing. Fortunately, more and more cancers improve treatment. We are making progress on this, but if a quarter of people lose their jobs afterwards, that is a destruction of human capital and of people's potential. Every year, 50,000 people who work get cancer. In the Radboudumc in Nijmegen they have now hired occupational health professionals who from day one help people with questions like "how can I keep working?', "How can I make sure that goes with the treatment?" And "how do I feel about my work?', so they still have a job after treatment. I don't think it's possible for that to be paid out of his own pocket by the Radboud. That's not a sustainable model. I just want a concrete plan from the cabinet right now. I am also going to table a motion for that in the second term. I want to get a concrete plan before 1 February that says how this gets a place in hospitals. There are wonderful examples in Nijmegen. Do something with it. I know this also affects VWS, but I'm not gonna settle for being sent with a brat in the reeds. I really want something to happen here now. You're experiencing some frustration, and it is after I've been drawing attention to this for years. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wanted to ask about corona. A motion by Mrs Marijnissen of the SP and Rob Jetten called for attention to be given to the support of corona patients, even when it comes to work. Now we have C-support for that. That's a bit built in line with Q-support, for people who are suffering from the aftermath of that horrible Q-fever. But what does it turn out to be? The foundation that does this is a little bit robbed by the question. The latter is a quote. They can help 50 to 100 people a month, but given the numbers with corona we get stuck there. What can the Cabinet do to help them more to help more people, so that they can stay at work after corona and pick up the work again? For many simply experience severe after-effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u136	I'd like to come back to thezzp plans. We, too, were quite enthusiastic from the opposition about what was ahead of the coalition agreement, namely the real handling of this bogus self-employment. Three and a half years later, we note that this has not been achieved. We also read yesterday in the letter that we actually have to wait another year. Can't we just speed this up a little bit? We know that this is a vulnerable group of people who are not protected and we have all said in the Chamber, from left to right, that it is actually unacceptable that we should allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u137	I really share the search. At the same time, I read, again today, that the Tax Administration does not find any evildoers in research. That surprises me, too. As far as I'm concerned, this is how we're gonna change it in the law. We want to legally conclude a kind of business agreement, whereby real entrepreneurs can opt for a separate legal basis and we are not in the craziness that in current labour law you are more likely to be azzp'er if you can be replaced than if you are not. That is precisely why the free replacement of a person who delivers meals or drives packages is a reason why that person is taken on as a self-employed person faster than an expert who hires Mr Van Dijk or I. Then the story is: I cannot be replaced by everyone, because I would like to hire Gijs van Dijk's specific expertise and not someone he sends in his place. So I actually agree: what can be done here, I really want to look at that. But I really don't want one thing, and that's back to that DBA uncertainty, which means that a lot of self-employed people, even Mr Gijs van Dijk, are not hired anymore. So I'm terrified... No, that's not good Dutch. I am very afraid of the risk that we will do it in such a way that a lot of people who we do not want to touch with this at all will no longer be given orders. That's the permanent split we're looking for. I share Mr Van Dijk's discomfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u138	Your last question, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u139	Yes, of course we want the real entrepreneur to do it. In my view, real entrepreneurs are also affected by the debate on bogus self-employed workers, which is quite rightly taking place here. They say: it's not about me; it's about a group I'm not part of, so solve it in The Hague. We now have statements from the Supreme Court. The ESC has come up with an opinion. Employers also say: it is really a big problem with these platforms. A lawsuit has been won by now. Isn't it crazy that the IRS hasn't seen any malicious ones?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u140	I have one more thing. If I had had time, I would have paid a little more attention to that myself. That is why we are also considering the complexity of rules and implementation. In fact, I think that we are giving this too little room here today. Last week I was allowed to talk to the temporary committee about this in the poll room. Sometimes things in the execution turn out to be much more repulsive than we all hope. Then we can pound feet, but that still doesn't solve it. Let me rephrase the question, including the Minister. I supported your proposal to request a response to the ruling of the Supreme Court. I find it complicated with that platform work. I understand very well what you're looking for. That's not the type of entrepreneur we think of first. These are often just people who, for example, work in the meal delivery. I find it complicated how this platform work relates to the fact that the Tax Administration is using the same law because the Supreme Court is constantly reviewing the current law, which says that they can't really do anything legally. I haven't gotten those two things together yet. That is why I am also curious about the response to the question put to the cabinet on the basis of your ideas about the ruling of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u141	I know that Mr Van Weyenberg is also very upset. In my speech, I also drew attention to the self-employed who, on behalf of this government, stopped working on the corona crisis. I would like to refer Mr Jody to Mr Van Weyenberg. He's a 51-year-old professional musician. He was forced to quit his work, got into a lot of trouble with his family, knocked on the door to the food bank and dealt with a payroll. What are Mr Van Weyenberg's words towards this best man? What should this government do with regard to D66 to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u142	Unfortunately, I know these stories by artists in the cultural sector and unfortunately also wider. Let me give you three answers. We have unprecedented support packages, but they don't help everywhere. That's not an answer for this gentleman yet, but I'll tell you that in advance. I think it is fair to emphasise that. Two. We had invented the TOFA, partly to help people who fell between shore and ship. The Minister says: "Don't do that to me again; just in my words." But that's exactly what this search is all about. I asked the question, specifically about artists and professional athletes, who often work with a fictitious employment relationship and fall in between, whether there might still be a hook to do something when we look at the sex workers, who have a similar contract of employment. So that's a concrete search I have here. The second is that I think it is wise that the power test is gone, at least in the coming months, from the Tozo, the support for self-employed people. I do not know whether the gentleman from Mr Van Kent's example is eligible for this. And the last thing is that we are now putting as much money specifically into culture as possible, so that things can be made there again. I saw today that 10 million goes to public service broadcasting to broadcast culture and have the creators back to work. So that is the search, but I hope that in the next proposal for a support package the cabinet will also take a very specific look at these flex workers in Mr Van Kent's poignant example. I don't have a ready-made solution, but I don't think we have any here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u143	Mr Jody is also following this debate and I can imagine that he thinks that Mr Van Weyenberg's reply is far from satisfactory. It is not a solution to his problem. Mr Van Weyenberg pretends that this solution is complicated, but it is not. It's not a search. It's obvious. In fact, the first aid package did not look at the partner's income when someone applied for support. It's super simple. It is not something new or something very crazy or complicated that the SP Group raises here. It is a simple solution for very, but very serious injustice, which, with your support, Mr Van Weyenberg, is being done to this large group of people. And unfortunately, it's not just about musicians. It concerns all those self-employed people who, on behalf of this government and in order to protect the public health of all of us, have stopped their work. So I ask you once again the question, Mr Van Weyenberg, and it is not complicated, because we have already done it once: what is your answer to Mr Jody's cry for help? How are we going to solve the problem of him and many others? As far as I'm concerned, that's simple. We have tabled an amendment to that effect and I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u144	I said earlier that I felt very strongly about abolishing the partner test. My ideal solution was that we had devised an intermediate form in which the partner test up to a certain income would not apply. Unfortunately, that is not possible and I am sick of it as a plug, but it is the reality for me. Second. You say it's easy. I have been reading a letter to the First Chamber today, which says that the municipalities do not find it easy. I'm not hiding behind that, but it's a fact. We'll have to name it. The municipalities say: do not make any more changes to us. Then the latter, and I find that really complicated. What if I let go of the partner test forever? That's nice; then I can yell at my zzp backstabber: look what I've done nicely? But what do I say to all those people who have been on welfare after three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u145	Last question, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u146	In my opinion, Mr Van Weyenberg can very simply say to these people: "This group, which I stood up for as D66, because we as a society want them to stop their work, is a special group. It is not a group that has become unemployed or has been employed that has no longer been interested in. No, it is a group of people who have stopped to serve the interests of all of us." So if you support the SP amendment, you can tell all those people that D66 has made sure that the government also compensates this group financially, and not even for the real loss of income but at a minimum level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u147	I already said that that's why I liked it so much that you still do it, especially for people whose partners have low incomes. I ask every debate whether there is anything to be done about that. Unfortunately, the answer is always no. But still the other side. We do a lot of support, for example from culture. We have just asked whether the solution for sex workers can also help other people with a fictitious employment relationship. But it is hard for me to say that a lot of people who are or have come into welfare and who were in a short WW or were not entitled to it have lost their jobs because of this crisis. Mr Van Kent says that this is another group. That sounds very attractive, but people lost their jobs there too. And then say to them, "All the tests apply to you," because at the moment the power test still applies to self-employed people, while they may have worked side by side in a theatre and both have no work anymore, I find it complicated. I also ask for understanding... Many people who are in the WW or in the assistance have also been partly there because of measures taken by this cabinet, which they could not do anything about and which were needed...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u148	Then you shouldn't take down the NOW. That's really a different group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u149	No, no. I expected a little more from the SP, namely that it also had an eye for workers who have a short WW and then get into the assistance. Of course, this is a complicated dilemma, but I also think we should be honest about it. I speak to people who have hardly had WW rights, also because it is in their sector... Also because they worked in a restaurant that's been closed for months. I think we should look at that a little bit. We should not forget that group, I say to Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u150	You may respond briefly and I shall go to Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u151	Thank you for that, because this is really a different subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u152	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u153	It is also D66 that supported the social agreement in the previous cabinet, which reduced the duration of the WW to 24 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u154	This is about a much shorter WW, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u155	If we are going to have a discussion about social security and the security that we offer to employees, it can still be very interesting. But this is a specific group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u156	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u157	Yes. We shouldn't bring in all kinds of other people. No, this group of people is being greatly wronged. D66 walks away from it and looks away, because D66 is just ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u158	Mr President, I am sorry, but this debate technique by Mr Van Kent is starting to annoy me. You can tell by me. I believe that Mr Van Kent is really wronging me. I asked here how we could help groups. We do things in culture, for example. I ask one thing from Mr Van Kent. He keeps shouting that they're other groups. This isn't about the people with max WW. This is about people who may or may not have had three months of WW law. At the beginning of the crisis... No, but... Mr President, Mr Van Kent is annoying about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u159	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u160	Mr. Chairman. This is about people who lost their jobs, because government in sectors... Take the culture. People who worked there as an employee... Mr President, this is not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u161	I am going to see Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u162	No, Mr. Chairman, I just want to answer if I throw these things at my head...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u163	But then you shouldn't keep... 'Cause then he's gonna have to react again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u164	But Mr Van Kent is still standing there a little bit... That is a little distracting, I say to Mr Van Kent. The trick is that a lot of workers are now in the welfare system via the short WW. I find that complicated. I think Mr Van Kent should have an eye for that. He may eventually make another choice, but he must be aware that we do want everyone who loses his job... We want to be able to explain to those different groups what we do with one group and what we remember the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u165	Good. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u166	I am actually very pleased with Mr Van Weyenberg's reply. Without Mr Van Weyenberg knowing himself, he is making a huge plea for a crisis income. Because at the question of the SP why the partner test is in the Tozo, I only hear the answer from Mr Van Weyenberg: we have to do that, otherwise the difference with the regular social security, the Participation Act, will be very big again. Should we not give these people the answer that we are ensuring that both employees and entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, who no longer have a job, are not allowed to fall through the hoofs? We must ensure that everyone can count on financial assistance at this exceptional economic time. Isn't that the right answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u167	That is one of the reasons why we have said that we are not doing power tests in the Tozo, for example; precisely because we say: I do not think that is fair. I understand that Mr Smeulders is very consistent on this point, but I am looking at how you do this in a way that it really is a temporary thing. I believe that motions and amendments tabled by Mr Smeulders have been adopted in order to change a number of points here, including in the discussions he had with the cabinet on this subject. Disable all the keys permanently, or at least for the coming years, I find it solid again. But Mr Smeulders is right; you have to keep looking at this constantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u168	I think we're all looking for a solution forzzp'ers who are in trouble. And Mr Van Weyenberg also wants the partner test, which is now available and which looks at whether or not thezzp person is receiving benefits and whether his partner has an income, to be dropped. But the argument for not doing so is that the difference between workers and people who are already receiving welfare benefits becomes too big. The only solution is to say that we are not doing that partner test and that asset test, not for entrepreneurs but not for people who are in the Participation Act and are receiving welfare benefits. And we should not do that for years, because this is an exceptional crisis, but just until 1 July, until next summer, if we hopefully have the most of this misery behind us. Isn't that what D66 has to argue for? Isn't that the most just thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u169	I think it's a bit of a search. I understand what Mr. Smeulders is looking for, but if you're not careful... We have also seen people with partners with very high incomes receiving support. We've all made calls not to. Municipalities said about this fact: let's let go of this generic over the board. But so far I haven't heard them very enthusiastically about whether they could do this at all; let's not forget that either. Look, what I've been looking for, and that's close to your ideas, is to do that, for example, up to a certain income. Then I think it's fair. But for that, I keep getting zero on the stretch on the feasibility. Well, we've all, I think, learned that that does play a role, no matter how annoying we are. Mr President, I see that I have now chased the Minister out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u170	Yeah, but he'll be right back. Sometimes it's the only way. Anyway, thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts on behalf of D66. And the Minister will be back as soon as he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In times of crisis, the most vulnerable in a society are at risk of being hit hardest: people with low and flexible incomes, people in the social services that come home or parents with young children who are dependent on welfare benefits. D66 doesn't want to drop these people. We are pleased that the Secretary of State has come up with an intensification of poverty and debt policies. Good steps are being taken, but with regard to D66, an occasional investment is not enough. We also certainly see room for structural improvements. In my contribution, I will deal in turn with poverty and debt policies and the Participation Act. Mr. Chairman. Food banks receive fewer products, especially at a time when more people depend on them. Although D66, of course, encourages the prevention of food waste, it should not be at the expense of those who rely on the help of the food bank. We therefore welcome the additional resources the Secretary of State is putting in place. We also want to encourage the Secretary of State to continue working with industry to convert existing residual flows into products in the production chain. The Secretary of State's letter on the intensification of poverty and debt policies shows that not all municipalities spend the money intended to combat child poverty. At the same time, a number of subsidies to national organisations have been reduced, because municipalities bear their own responsibility. Municipalities carry out poverty policies differently. It is good that municipalities can provide tailor-made services, but especially at this time, the money for child poverty should be put in the right place. That's why my questions. Can the Secretary of State explain why not all municipalities spend the money intended for child poverty on it? Does the Secretary of State have a good idea whether all children are reached in poverty? I would like to call on the Secretary of State to ensure that all municipalities are well aware of the resources available to combat child poverty. Mr. Chairman. Investing in reading and calculating, physical movement and mental health is the best investment in the future of children and in preventing poverty now and in the future. How does the Secretary of State respond to the recommendations of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on these issues? Mr. Chairman. People with little financial clearance often live in poorly isolated houses. Being at home can make the energy bill much higher this year. That could mean a big bill by the end of the year. Can the Secretary of State talk to energy suppliers to see if they can show more coulance at the time of payment and the imposition of fines if people cannot pay the bill directly? Mr. Chairman. The number of households with problematic debts is growing considerably. Once there are debts, they often run up quickly. That is why it is very important to be able to help these people quickly. Collective debt regulation has proved to be an effective method of helping people in a friendly path. Unfortunately, in some cases it does not come to a settlement because one or some creditors do not respond. In his letter, the Secretary of State announces a bill of maximum response period for creditors. We look forward to that proposal. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Jetten motion, which calls for an examination of the possibility of facilitating access to the Wsnp and reducing its duration? Mr. Chairman. Nationally, many innovative methods are applied to help people in debt. Municipalities have a lot of freedom in this, but they can also learn from each other. D66 is in favour of a sustainable approach. The solution to the debt problem is not simply debt cancellation and waiting for people to knock on the door again. It's about helping people to rebuild their own future. This calls for the linking of debt relief to training and the work on financial resiliency. Can the Secretary of State indicate which pilots he considers successful? How does the Secretary of State intend to speed up the scaling-up of these methods? Mr. Chairman. As has been said, the number of people with problematic debts will increase in the coming period as a result of the corona crisis. The increase in the rates of bailiffs comes at an unfortunate time. The deficits of bailiffs are passed on to a group that is already financially tight. Can the Secretary of State ask his colleague what is possible in terms of timing for this introduction? Is the Secretary of State prepared to look with his colleague Dekker at the current system of socially responsible collection and to identify any improvements? There must be better cooperation between bailiffs and debt relief workers. Can the Secretary of State encourage more bailiffs to sign the covenant with NVVK? Mr. Chairman. Soon we will be discussing the bill on a broad offensive. I am saving my comments on that proposal for that debate. Apart from that, I would also like to raise a number of points with regard to the Participation Act. Let me begin by thanking the Secretary of State for the letter on the revision of the concept of fraud in social security. I hope that the results of the follow-up study will follow soon. Mr. Chairman. In June, together with the SP and the CDA, we asked the Secretary of State to examine the effect of the four-week search period on homelessness among young people. Divosa has conducted this research and recommends that the search period be permanently dropped for vulnerable young people. We ask the Secretary of State to take this advice. Mr. Chairman. D66 wants to make the step to work even more attractive. We also want to give people in the assistance the opportunity to become more independent. That is why we want to extend the possibilities of temporarily earning up to the minimum wage. I'm asking the Secretary of State to investigate the possibilities for this. Mr. Chairman. In June we received a letter on the impact of supplementary social measures on the aid and recovery package. Can the Secretary of State state state what progress has been made in implementing the supplementary social package? What is the status of setting up regional mobility teams? Youth unemployment has doubled and will remain high for the time being. It is good that the cabinet provides additional resources for training and guidance. We are curious about the state of play. How is the use of the funds for additional training and after-care? Mr. Chairman. In some cases, the current cost sharing standard leads to undesirable situations. D66 wants to prevent young people from getting out on the street or people from taking care of themselves because they are afraid of being cut back financially. There is a possibility of customisation, but it is not yet sufficiently exploited. D66 sees good ideas emerging locally to experiment with this customization, for example here in The Hague. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give the municipalities room so that they can experiment with exceptions to the cost sharing standard. Mr. Chairman. There remains a difference between persons with a permanent disability in the Wajong and in the Participation Act. There is no partner or power test for a person in the Wajong with a low workload. If the same person is covered by the Participation Act, they do. As a result, this person cannot build up own funds and remains dependent on others. The Participation Act aims to ensure that people are temporarily covered by this law. Of course, this is not the case for people with a long-term disability, such as chronic illness or long-term disability. D66 therefore wants to give them the opportunity to achieve greater independence within the Participation Act. I would ask the Secretary of State to examine how these sustainable labour restrictions could gain more financial independence, for example by extending the partner and asset test. Finally, Mr President. My colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, has just said: we see that in recent months, a lot of work has been done by the employees. We appreciate that very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u172	Thank you, Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u173	So, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u174	Everyone's awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u175	This is the last budget of this minister. I have to say, he's worked hard, but it's been a long time. I thought it would be a good idea to start positive. In 2017, during my first Social Affairs budget, I started talking about the quality of life. That's a rumourary article from 1963, written by the director of the Wiardi Beckman Foundation. That was Joop den Uyl. His analysis of society was very sharp. At that time, after the years of construction, there was a significant increase in private wealth, but it was precisely the public facilities that were left behind. Too many people fell between shore and ship. If you flush that 1963 film down to now for about 60 years, we have to conclude that the article has not lost its topicality. Because what have we seen in the past few years? Companies make big profits. With shareholder capitalism, more and more money goes to shareholders and less and less money to the people. The inequality in society is also growing. Joop den Uyl said: If we want to achieve freedom, equality and quality of life for everyone, then we will have to invest in the collective provision. As far as we are concerned, the 1963 mission is also the present one. The moment you've got solid ground, that you have a nice life with a house that you can afford, with a job that gives you a decent income and a good contract, you can be happy and look forward. You can live and start a family, and you can still have time with friends and family. That gives you perspective, even if time, as in this time, is very uncertain. It is a very important source of inspiration for me to look at people who have fought for the quality of life in the past. Mr. Chairman. My biggest source of inspiration is a feminist. This feminist has spent her whole life fighting injustice and the quality of life of others. She was always able to figure herself out and has spent her whole life in the service of the public cause. That feminist may not be known, but it is to me, because it's my mother. She's my biggest source of inspiration ever since I was a kid. That is why I have begun to develop politically. I believe with her in the quality of life. It's not about yourself, but it's always about looking at others and making everyone in society happy and able to move forward. My mother died early this year, in the middle of her working life. Two weeks before she died, she was still working for others. Of course I miss her every day and that will not be less, but the inspiration and lessons she has given me, I hope to bring my whole life with me. So that's an incredible gift from her. It is a privilege that I am allowed to do so and that I can mention it here in this plenary. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the corona crisis. The corona crisis has already been mentioned by several people, and it actually puts a magnifying glass on our society, on the vulnerabilities of our society, on the vulnerabilities of our labour market. In March, at the first lockdown, many people immediately lost their jobs, for example because they had a zero-hour contract or a flex contract or because they werezzp'er in the event business. You'll see immediately how vulnerable people can be if something like this happens to them. A lot of people are still at home now. We also see that there are more and more people in poverty, even more than there already are. We are seeing more and more people forced to go to the food banks. On top of that, we have many people in vital sectors who have been working all this time: warehouse workers, supermarket workers, butchers, but also the people in education and care. They're our heroes, but they're vulnerable. That vulnerability, which was also seen by Joop den Uyl, is still there. Before the corona crisis we had a very different time, with quite a lot of prosperity and also a lot of financial resources from the government to combat some of those vulnerabilities and inequality. I must conclude, then, that the possibilities for this cabinet have not been fully used, and I say it mildly. We still see that a lot of people work with a flex contract. We're still seeing a lot of unprotectedzzp'ers. We still see a lot of people in poverty. Those aren't natural phenomena. These are political choices that we will have to make with each other in the near future, to ensure that the quality of life is there for everyone in the Netherlands and improves. It is about the security that we consider important, so we are sure of good work, of protection and of an income. That's actually the common thread in my input. I'll start with good work. The corona crisis, of course, has a huge impact on a lot of people who work. I have already said so, like the people who have continued to work in those vital sectors, those teachers and teachers who are afraid of infection themselves but just come to school every day to teach the students well. We also see the consequences for companies, for workers who may be at risk of losing their jobs and for those who have lost their income. It is very good that from day one of the crisis, the cabinet has opted for substantial support packages. We also see the good consequences of this, namely that there are not many layoffs yet. But now we see the first signals, like with FrieslandCampina, BAM, Artis and Ahoy. It is different companies in different sectors that are now announcing that they must let people go. I'm very worried about that. We think it is important that we also talk about this third aid package in the debate so that we can help as many people as possible from one job to another. Now make sure that as few people as possible take the step to a benefit, because we know what it can be for a personal thump if you lose your job. Then you not only lose your income but also to a large extent the value you feel to be, and then the step from a benefit to a job is often even more difficult. That is why we have previously called for a job guarantee. Now make sure that when companies have trouble keeping people, people are helped from one company to another and from one sector to another. That debate has been a while. That was the end of September. We said then: we must act now and free money now. 1.4 billion has been freed to retrain people and to bring them from one sector to another, with the NOW included. But my picture at the moment is that no euro has been paid out, despite the crisis. I don't understand. I do not even blame the Minister so much, but above all I have the impression that all very important parties and important people are arguing about a huge amount of money intended for people who need it now. So my appeal to the Minister is: stop the consultation and decide, preferably this week, just to go out and pay. Several municipalities, such as Amsterdam, now want to get started. There are a number of regions that are given priority, but they do not yet have any clarity about the budgets, about the training budgets. That worries me. If we can't do this in crisis time, it's really worrying. We need to use this time to speed up, to ensure the future as well as to ensure that as many people as possible go from work to work and as few people as possible from work to benefit. Can the Minister answer that? Can he promise us that that money will end up with the people we do it for every day? Let me now turn to the support package. Several speakers have already asked whether the cabinet, like many Members of Parliament, is ready to decide that it is unwise to close down matters on this issue from 1 January. I refer to the Asscher motion, in which a weighing moment was agreed with the cabinet. When's that gonna happen? Maybe we can do that this week? In addition, there are the crisis jobs. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about this. I think it is important that we can get a number of people to care, education or safety as soon as possible. How much extra money is available for that, besides the support package? How many jobs is the Minister going to achieve? Mr. Chairman. I'm here for protection. When it comes to protection, this is often about zzp'ers, because also zzp'ers are hit very hard during this crisis. We hear poignant stories ofzzp'ers with a partner who don't get Tozo. Does the Cabinet see that problem? Isn't there some room in there? Then I'll come, wider, to the government'szzp policy. That's downright disappointing. We have already referred to this here in 2017 in a hearing with several platform companies, which said from left to right: this is not possible, companies that deliberately use the zzp-construct to not give people a normal contract with protection. We are now more than three years and nothing happens. Again there is a letter of progress from the cabinet and nothing happens, despite the good ambitions that coalition and cabinet had. We were quite pleased with that passage in the coalition agreement. How is it that nothing happens to it and that it is transferred to the new cabinet? Can the Minister reflect on that? Is there no possibility of maintaining this in the meantime in the sectors that we can all identify in the Chamber and in the companies that we know are abusing that construction? Because I cannot reconcile the fact that the Supreme Court makes a ruling on independence and that the Economic and Social Council gives a good opinion on it, but that the Tax Administration is not able to deal with these malicious companies. What's the deal with that? How is that possible? Mr. Chairman. Then the social development companies. The social development companies are incredibly important to many people. It is very good that several parties are doing so, and we are also calling for the reinvestment and reconstruction of social development companies. Mr Jasper van Dijk called it "the social development companies 2.0." These are incredibly important as a stepping stone for many people into regular work, but also as a safe haven for people who ultimately cannot work in regular work or who may fall back from regular work. It is therefore very good that we, as parties, stress the value of social employment, but then we must ensure that, in the meantime, towards the elections, the financial situation of these companies will not lead to closures, for example. So I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if he can guarantee us that. I also know that a number of companies have administrative problems, but people in social services are going to suffer. Among other things with Soweco and Wedeka are quite a lot of worries. Can we agree here that up to and including the formation we do not take decisions leading to the damage to social employment? Can the Secretary of State also comment on Cedris' investigation? Because those results are quite worrying. Mr. Chairman. I come to poverty and debt. A lot of people are under pressure, a lot of people are dependent on welfare benefits, a lot of people are affected, also by the corona crisis, in debt and in poverty. The number of people sleeping on the street has doubled to 40,000. More and more people depend on a food bank. Those are really worrying figures from a lot of people who are in trouble. This year, more than a million people live in poverty. That's a million too many. I am critical of government policy, for example with regard tozzp's but also with regard to poverty policy. Why has it not been possible to tackle poverty in times of prosperity? In fact, poverty among Dutch people has increased. So that ambition of this cabinet didn't work out. Fortunately, however, this morning, with the Christian Union, we launched an offensive of 14 points, which we believe are crucial to combat poverty in the Netherlands and to help the people in debt in the Netherlands and to get them out of it. At the heart of this is an increase in the minimum wage. At the heart of this is also an increase in benefits and the social minimum. At the heart of this is money to combat poverty, including to get children out of poverty, but also to provide people with debt relief and to improve debt relief. Could the Secretary of State comment on those proposals that we made this morning? Mr Bruins will soon be offering it to the Secretary of State. And specifically, I have already heard the Minister of Finance at RTL News this afternoon, is the Secretary of State also prepared to deal with these usury interest rates and the upswing in companies such as Wehkamp, because these are companies that are profiting from the misery of people? In my opinion, we are in broad agreement here in the Chamber that this really should not be the case. Finally, Mr President. What's this Dekker doing? We are doing all kinds of things here to improve debt relief, to lower tariffs, and Minister Dekker is raising the cost of bailiffs in another department. It puts market forces into that. What world does this best man live in? I thought the cabinet would speak with one voice. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns pensions. Many pensioners sit at home and worry about their health in relation to corona as well as their pension. And that's right. They haven't been indexed for years. They might have been cut off, too. That question is really real. Is my pension going to be cut? Can I enjoy a carefree old age later? This is all in the direction of next year. What is the Minister going to do to remove these concerns from pensioners? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I started with the quality of life. How do we achieve this: freedom, equality and quality of life? We achieve this by investing in our welfare state, investing in our public facilities, by ensuring that no one falls between ship and ship, by recognising that work is an incredibly important value for everyone, not only for an income but also to participate in society. Thanks to the polder, this cabinet has really achieved some great results. A pension agreement has been concluded, there is protection forzzp's if they become disabled. At least that's in the making. Payrolling's been dealt with. I refer to the wide support packages. But it wasn't in the coalition agreement. So maybe it's thanks to the trade union movement that we got the cabinet in the right direction after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u176	I would like to congratulate Mr Van Dijk for the very nice plan he has made together with the Christian Union. It's got really nice things in it. Fantastic! But it was very necessary. This is not only due to the policy of the last four years, but also to the policy of the cabinet before that. That also got a lot of people in trouble. You yourself mentioned the social employment provision, the Participation Act. I think you were also at the demonstration at the Malieveld of the people in the social services, who were afraid they were behind the geraniums. And that's what happened. Now do I understand that the PvdA actually says all these things: that was stupid of us; we shouldn't have done that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u177	In fact, I've been worried for several years, even in the years before I was here in politics, about this Act of Participation and its consequences, and about the idea behind it. I also thought it was an unfortunate compromise between the Labour Party and the VVD. In my view, the choice to stop social work provision is absolutely not a good choice, and everyone says: not to close down the safety net and the safe haven for many people has not been a good choice at all. I have already made several proposals from the Chamber, and I also mentioned them in the NRC last week: in this way, the Participation Act is a genuine failure of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which has been at the expense of the people. This gives us the responsibility to make all kinds of proposals, together with the Christian Union and perhaps also with you, to ensure that there is social security for these people. Social security that works for them, rather than against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u178	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u179	Finally. Can the people of the country assume that after the elections this kind of cooperation between the PvdA and the VVD and that kind of terrible proposals will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u180	Sure! Is this going to be recorded? Finally, Mr President. It's time to invest in our society. It is time to invest in the quality of our lives. It is time for elections, time for a fairer and decent Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u181	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u182	Mr. Chairman. What a wonderful person Mr. Gijs van Dijk's mother must have been if she could have brought such a passionate person into the world. That's a great story. Warm. "Warm right" is that called nowadays? At least warm. Let's just keep it in the middle. Mr. Chairman. As Mr Van Dijk said, macro looked good last year, but micro was not always good. I spoke these words last year in the budget debate on SZW, in November last year. When I spoke this out, that corona crisis had yet to come. It has indeed made clear what I meant at the time. Mr Van Dijk also mentioned it: these advanced flexibilisation, vulnerable groups which we now see as the first to lose their jobs, lack of training, workers who cannot go from one sector to another, large deficits in key sectors. This crisis is putting our noses on the facts. That must give us reason to reflect and to move our beacons towards an economy that does work for people rather than the other way around and in which everyone can participate, whatever their level of education. An economy in which people can live a good life and where there is room for family, relationships and family care. In short, as the Christian Union says: a society not with maximum growth, but with maximum bloom. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the position on the labour market of young people, migrant workers and people with disabilities. Then I will say something about poverty and debt. Let's start with the labour market. We have reports from the WRR and the Borstlap Committee, and that is what the Christian Union is about. Fortunately, the cabinet acknowledges that there is work to be done and last week we received a heavy cabinet response to these reports. It was a well thought-out response, but I am disappointed that a lot is being passed on to the next cabinet. A hot potato that is pushed forward for a long time. What else can this cabinet do, I ask the Minister. What proposals will be ready to be taken when the next cabinet can start working on them? For example, I am thinking of reducing differences between workers. Flexible work has become much cheaper compared to permanent staff. The strong growth of the number of employees with a flexible contract, of the number ofzzp'ers in the Netherlands, is not a natural phenomenon, that word just fell as well, but the result of rules in labour law. Conscious liberal policy, based on a dream image of the autonomous man with his creative life. This cabinet is taking small steps in the right direction. That's good. But does the Minister agree with me that a major step is needed, a real reform? As far as my group is concerned, a permanent contract of employment is going to be the norm again. If flexibility is needed, for example, you can look for it within that contract of employment, so that employers can also dare and manage to employ people. Mr. Chairman. I am very worried about young people, about youth unemployment. This youth unemployment is also a result of the volatility and temporaryity that characterizes our labour market. Young people are the first to suffer from this. We must prevent a lost generation at all costs, as Mrs Palland pointed out. We need to enthuse young people for these vital jobs in deficit sectors, because we lack tens of thousands of practically trained professionals, hands on the bed, tough cops, while at the same time many recently graduates in other training courses have no idea how to get a job at this time. I ask the Minister whether he shares my view that we should be more daring to steer the influx into education. There should be a brake on training which has a lean working perspective, for example through a numerus fixus. Does this cabinet dare to send us here so that we can actually train those professionals of the future? I also raised this in the OCW debate and in the EZ debate, but for me this is a fundamental point, especially in the SZW debate. Mr. Chairman. The supplementary social package. I don't see anything yet. Mr. Van Dijk said so, too. What can the Minister say about this now? [[Sentence could not be parsed: De heer Van Dijk had het ook over tekortsectoren en over van de ene naar de andere sector gaan.]] I had a very long story about this, but I would just like to ask the Minister if he is also going to talk to the technological sectors, for example, to get a lighting technician from events in the installation industry. The Craft Academy has already been mentioned by the VVD. So I can be brief about that too. Together with the VVD I advocate stable funding for this special form of master companion routes. In particular, I would like to draw attention to validation. Validation has been worked out crazy enough in our education so far only for theoretical subjects. Also in practical subjects you should be able to excel, excel. How can we stimulate and preserve this development for the future? Mr. Chairman. A few words about migrant workers. Too often we see examples of exploitation, poor living conditions and poor protection of migrant workers. Fortunately, there is now a solid report from the Hunting Team on the protection of migrant workers led by Mr Roemer. They rightly advocate better registration, stricter requirements for temporary employment agencies and the separation of the role of employer and landlord. How quickly can the cabinet take steps on this point? A crucial point is also housing. The housing challenge in our society is already enormous. It's a bottleneck in our society. How's the minister looking at this? Does he share my view that in recruiting migrant workers housing should be conditional and that there are limits to labour migration in this respect? In the initiative paper that we defended together with the SP last spring, we raised the question of whether we should not regulate labour migration better in Europe, with mutual agreements between Member States. Now it's happening to us too much. This is not good for our society, nor for the countries of origin, where young people leave. I look forward to what the Council of State is going to say about that. Mr. Chairman. Then people with a distance from the labour market or, rather, the labour market that is remote from people. I see that people with talents who like to roll up their sleeves, each one of them does not come to work. Employers fear the costs and risks involved in hiring these people. The evaluation of the Participation Act and the recent figures on the employment agreement show that we are not yet there. Cedris' research has already been mentioned. It's really interesting to deliberate about those exact numbers. How to read these statistics exactly, I leave it in the middle, but the essence of the story is that there is still a lot of work to be done. So let's focus on that. This time proves how important it is that we have a strong social infrastructure in which public and private parties work together. What about the financing of SW companies in crisis time for 2021? The current additional budget will end in December, as Mr Peters had already noticed. I have previously tabled a motion to monitor this properly and to take action where necessary. What can the Secretary of State say about that? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the no-risk policy should also apply to people who have been on welfare for several years. There too, employers often hesitate to employ these people. I am convinced that it can save the government a lot of money on benefits if we make the no-risk policy more widely available. I'm considering a motion on this point. Another point is the allocation of the budget for labour costs subsidies and sheltered work. As Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan said, should this not be divided on the basis of actual places? Finally, poverty and debt. Because of the corona crisis, all these problems are increasing considerably. We can't accept this. We must make every effort to prevent poverty and debt and provide early aid if it is to go wrong. Too often, a small open account of a few tens increases to a debt of hundreds of euros. We're seeing aggressive collection practices. We see a lively trade in debt. We see the usury interest rates that are being counted. There has been a perverse debt industry, and we need to break it down. That is why today, together with the PvdA, the Christian Union has presented an offensive with fourteen proposals to prevent poverty and debt, from raising the minimum wage to transforming the surcharge system and from faster debt relief to banning debt sales. I would like to offer a copy of our action plan to both directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u183	You can put it here for a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u184	Mr. Chairman. A number of points have already been raised by Mr Van Dijk. I'll mention a few more. We want to speed up the bail-out fund. We also propose to further reduce the credit rate. Currently, high interest rates are a earning model for mail order companies and a major source of problem debt. We have also prepared a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, attention should be paid to the food banks, also mentioned by Mrs Van Beuker. It's good to see extra money available. The cabinet is going to call on the European Social Fund to make another EUR 8 million available. In doing so, the cabinet responds to the call we made together with the CDA in our own-initiative paper on the food banks. That's good news. I ask the Secretary of State when he expects to have more clarity about these European funds. Mr President, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u185	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP. Mr. Stoffer. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u186	I thought I had eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u187	Oh, that's okay. Will do. It's a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u188	But I'd like to add a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u189	Fine, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u190	Originally, there were six. That's right, but we asked for two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u191	That's right, for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u192	Mr. Chairman. Man feeds, but God commands. A proverb derived from the sixteenth chapter of the Bible book Proverbs. I can recommend everyone to read that whole Bible book tonight. If it's too much, take that one chapter. Because it's, I think, something that makes you think at this time and maybe leads to better things. What no one had thought of when we were standing here last year is how disruptive a minuscule virus can be for our society. It shows us what really matters. Mr President, you will understand that I shall deal first with the consequences of the corona crisis. It is up to the government to help the most vulnerable at the moment. I must congratulate you on that, because it is being worked really hard and well. However, I would like to focus on people who are in debt or who are in debt, because I think that we need to pay particular attention to this. Inflow into debt restructuring is declining and debt problems are increasing. My question to the cabinet, the first question I ask tonight, is: how is the cabinet going to ensure that people find the way to debt restructuring and save themselves financially? More and more people with disabilities are also coming to work. But what is very unfortunate is that the government is always left behind in this. I'm saying, you can't do that. The government really needs to work on this right now. My question is whether the Secretary of State would like to draw his colleagues in the cabinet on this issue. I have found that there appears to be a separate government pool for people with disabilities, but the results remain within the government. Can't this pool be deployed more actively and more broadly? I'd like an answer to that. Mr. Chairman. At this time, working at home becomes the new normal. This may not be the case for us here in the Chamber, but it is the case for many others. It's very nice that you can. Except it's not like everyone's gonna blossom at home. I hear really bad stories about that. The question is therefore in the broadest sense: what does it do to people? My question to the Secretary of State or the Minister of State I do not know exactly where it belongs. It is therefore whether the Ministry and the SZW inspection keep an eye on the physical and psychological consequences and the balance between work and private life. Much more employers are going to expand the possibilities for working at home in the future. As a result of the corona crisis, for workers living in Germany or Belgium and working in the Netherlands or vice versa, an undesirable tax switch is prevented by decisive action as national governments and authorities. The SGP asks whether this scheme will continue in the future for cross-border workers who work structurally at home and who work less than 40% in the country of residence. I'd really like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet still underestimates the value of unpaid labour, while there is much more in life than paid labour than paid labour. There are people who like to be there for their families, or people who work as carers, which is so important at this time. Now say for yourself: a parent or a caregiver is making a valuable contribution to society as much as anyone else who gets euros in the bank account for that. My question is: how is the cabinet going to stimulate informal care and unpaid or partly paid labour? This includes families where a parent does not have a paid job, but often carries out valuable unpaid work. I call on the Cabinet not only to take account of paid labour, but above all also of unpaid or partly paid labour. Finally, on this point. Of course, I cannot help it: why does the cabinet not honour its own promise not to further widen the gap between one and two earners? I'd like to get a reaction to that. It has gone over the last period of 5.6 times as much tax payment to 7 times as much tax payment. I always quote that example of €40,000. I'm not gonna look after the minister. He's shaking a little no. I've got the numbers straightened out. But I am sure that we are going to have a discussion on this in the light of the first-term response. Mr. Chairman. I'm joining the sickness and disability scheme. In the sickness and disability scheme, a level playing field between private and public parties is of great importance. It is therefore striking that the public health insurance premiums of UWV are very low. This leads to unfair competition. How is it that there is a difference of opinion between the analyses of the UWV and the Ministry in determining the premiums? Would it not be better to use a single system and to use the budgetary bases of the Ministry as a guiding principle in determining the disease law premium? And what is the status of the investigation into the motivation of temp agency Randstad to return to public health insurance? It seems that there is now a shift incentive because the premium level is lower than the actual burden of damage. Does the Minister want to talk to the UWV and the private performers to prevent perverse incentives leading to a return to the UVW or the private market? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the future of the labour market. The cabinet puts the ball down for a review of the labour market in a next cabinet. However, I would like to ask this cabinet not to remain on its hands for the coming period, because standstill is a decline. Are there really no cases that can still be arrested? In the short term, for example, we would like to see a reduction in the payment of wages for entrepreneurs in sick workers. The Supreme Court recently ruled that the actual work done by azzp'er is more important to the rights than what is written on paper. That is a good thing. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this judgment. What does that mean for practice? I think it's countering false self-employment, and that's what's needed, so that realzzp'ers get the room to keep on doing it. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet aims to reduce the difference in tax treatment betweenzzp'ers and employees. This is done by the faster reduction of the self-employed deduction. I understand that this difference needs to be partly bridged, but how does the Minister prevent that in practice means that only the benefits for the self-employed, such as the self-employed, are taken away? Does the Minister agree with me that an integrated approach is needed and that we should not just focus on the question: how do we make thezzp'er more an employee? Finally, on this point, I would like to mention disability insurance. I read in the response to the labour market reports that compulsory disability insurance will be further developed in the near future. I assume that the exceptions will be taken into account, for example for the agricultural sector. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Is the Minister also prepared to look again at responsible options for opt-outs? Then asbestos. The Dutch School of Public Administration has put its finger on the sore spot in the asbestos system this year and advocates less market interference and more transparency. The Secretary of State thinks he's already doing well. But I have to think about that biblical lesson that new wine should be in new leather bags. 'Cause old leather bags would just burst. My question is: will the use of the Secretary of State be sufficient if we leave old structures and mixing of functions intact? My urgent advice, and the Secretary of State, knows what that means, is an urgent opinion: take Paul Frissen's concerns and advice very seriously. Mr. Chairman. It has just been announced by Mr Smeulders, but last year GroenLinks and SGP together asked for attention to mourning in the workplace. The Minister has recently sent a letter on this subject which shows that there is not much known about the absence of mourning. Our question is whether it is possible to include some questions about this in TNO's National Survey on Working Conditions. In our view, more needs to be done on this important issue. That's what we hear from society. Employees and employers should be able to contact a national centre of expertise. That is why Mr Smeulders and I want an organisation like the National Support Point Loss really to have an expertise function. In addition, we ask the government to explore the possibilities for mourning leave in view of the forthcoming formation. Our question is: what does the Minister think of these proposals? Finally, Mr President, nothing is certain, but this is probably the last financial year for these leaders. We as SGP wish them, in the midst of this uncertain time, wisdom and God's blessing in that meaningful work. I am running out of time, Mr President, so I am afraid that Mr Van Dijk's question is no longer valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u193	Well, that's too bad! Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u194	Thank you, Mr President. DENK believes that everyone has the right to equal opportunities, equal opportunities in education, equal opportunities in the housing market, and that is what we will be discussing today in particular: equal opportunities in the labour market. The corona crisis is currently the greatest threat to equal opportunities in the labour market. People lose their jobs and are in uncertainty. The Social and Cultural Planning Office states that the crisis will affect vulnerable groups in society in particular. The number of people living in poverty will increase as many people lose their jobs. What should never happen is that the corona crisis hits the most vulnerable people in society hardest. The account of the crisis must not be deposited with those who have the least. Then DENK looks at children with the greatest attention. Child poverty was already a major problem for the crisis, but now seems to be increasing. One in nine children lives in poverty. That's almost 400,000 kids. And those were the numbers for corona. Then you wonder: does the government actually have a good picture of the effects of the corona crisis on child poverty? We all know the poignant stories of children who have to go to school on an empty stomach, without breakfast, or have no sneakers to gym. DENK wants us to continue to support these children, through the Youth Sports Fund, the Youth Culture Fund and all the funds that are conceivable. After a long press from the Chamber, the Secretary of State has finally set a target rate for child poverty. In 2030, in ten years, the Secretary of State wants to reach 4.6% child poverty. And that for a prosperous country like the Netherlands. Then, of course, you ask yourself: why do we not strive for 0% child poverty? That would be ambitious. That would be decisive. We can actually see that there is hardly anything added to the budget in this respect compared to 2019; there is no change at all. The cabinet, in its own words, continues its approach to child poverty from 2019 and thus actually opts for a much too wait-and-see attitude. DENK wants more resources to be allocated to the fight against child poverty and that the money for child poverty actually reaches the children. Currently, the money that goes to municipalities for child poverty is not earmarked. This means that it can also be used partly for the tiling of streets and the famous lampposts or, as happened in Rotterdam, for the renovation of the Coolsingel. And I love the Coolsingel, of course, but that money wasn't meant for that. Is the government finally prepared to accept the funds for child poverty? Mr. Chairman. DENK also wants more attention to be paid to combating one of the sources of child poverty. 220,000 people in the Netherlands are working poor. About 40% of children living in poverty have working parents. All those parents who work but nevertheless do not have enough money to take care of their children, we should give extra support. The rise in wages under this cabinet has always fallen behind economic growth, which we see year by year. Wages have to do it every time with the percentage points and the crumbs they get. The best way to combat poverty and give people more resources to spend is to raise the minimum wage. And then, of course, I come to the SP colleagues and many other colleagues in the Chamber, but that has to be done at last. And we do not have to wait for the elections; we can actually do that this year. Because if you include something in your election program, I'll tell the VVD colleagues, you should be doing it by now. What are we waiting for anyway? This is the time to show, if you really mean it, that the government stands up for the most vulnerable in crisis time. Mr. Chairman. We also see that families do not always make optimal use of income support measures. A report by the Alliance for Child Poverty shows that a large threshold is that the supply is often too large and too unclear and that parents do not receive help. The children are then, as always, the victims. DENK finds this unfair. DENK therefore agrees with the arguments put forward by several parties to reform the complex surcharge system. We see most in the basic need supplement proposed by Finance, combining income support supplements into one basic need supplement with one common phasing-out path. In addition, DENK wants all other income support measures to be granted automatically, so that people are no longer lost in red tape. Mr. Chairman. Another major threat to poverty is uncertainty in the labour market. And then I'll soon get to the Labour Market Act in balance. We have had extensive debates on this in the past and there are, of course, good points in it, for example, that people who get a flex contract have the same legal status and working conditions as people with fixed contracts, and that employers now have a lower WW premium for fixed contracts than for flex contracts. But there are also a number of measures that strengthen the starting position of the precarious labour market. We are therefore extremely critical of a number of parts of this law. The Minister has heard that in the past. I call it more able to stack successive flex contracts. That is really something that has affected people very much, especially in the corona crisis. I also call it easier to fire employees. These are measures that increase uncertainty and weaken the position of people in the labour market. That is why we would prefer to see these elements of the Labour Market Act disappear in balance. We want to curb the accumulation of contracts and provide people with security. We do not want people to be more easily expelled, we want them to be protected. That is why I ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment whether he has any idea of the first effects of the extension of the chain clause and the extension of the scope for dismissal. That should be more visible in these times. And then you wonder if these measures are still sustainable in uncertain times of crisis. Shouldn't we be giving people more certainty at this time? Mr. Chairman. As far as job security is concerned, I would also like to address the situation of self-employed workers, which has also been extensively discussed today by a number of colleagues. Many Dutch people have in recent years been forced by the impossibility of a fixed contract to work as a zzp'er. This is also a vulnerable group, because these people do not build up a pension and often have little social security because of the out-of-pan contributions. Unfortunately, they too have been hit hard by the corona crisis. During the crisis, Zzp'ers see their assignments disappear like snow before the sun. That's terrible. What surprises us is that this extremely vulnerable and important group is now being punished by the decision to accelerate the reduction of the self-employed deduction from 2021. On the other hand, although the Minister proposes a temporary increase in the employment discount and a reduction in the rate of the first income tax disc in 2021, this is temporary compensation which does little for the future resilience of self-employed workers. The Minister is actually shifting the problem by way of speaking to the forthcoming periods of government, and that is very easy. DENK therefore wants the Minister to abandon the accelerated phasing-out of the self-employed deduction and to use the necessary resources to make this possible. Mr. Chairman. Then there is our most important point: labour market discrimination. Discrimination in the labour market is still a major problem. It is expected that this will only be exacerbated by the corona crisis. Despite the fact that there are still few figures on the effects of corona on labour market discrimination, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau expresses all its concerns about the position of Dutch people with a migration background during the crisis. Their position is highly dependent on the economic situation. Unfortunately, in times of crisis, discrimination is increasing and these people are losing their jobs. It is precisely in economically difficult times that policies must be pursued to keep this vulnerable group working. However, there is little money available in the budget for tackling labour market discrimination. Reference is made to the coalition agreement 2017-2021. When we look at the figures in the budget, we see that in 2018 an additional 0.5 million was released to address labour market discrimination in recruitment and selection. Of course, DENK was very satisfied with that. However, given that everything points to the fact that the problem is not only still in existence, but is even growing, it is important that capacity increases to 3% in 2023, which is based on 2% of available capacity. That's actually getting worse. In the future, therefore, there will be less capacity for labour market discrimination. DENK therefore wants the government to do more and use more resources to combat discrimination: increasing penalties for discrimination offences, showing companies and organisations in front of it that they do not discriminate, demanding companies and organisations to make policies to combat discrimination, continuing awareness campaigns, increasing the capacity of the SZW inspection to enforce discrimination, public names and shams and excluding companies that discriminate much longer from public procurement and subsidies. Much and much more must be done against labour market discrimination! My question to the cabinet is whether it is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about the generally deteriorating position of students on the labour market since corona. Corona has caused a major shortage of internships in recent months, especially for MBOs. We also discussed this with the Minister for Education during Question Time this afternoon. This reduces the perspective on the labour market. Companies don't want extra people in the workplace as a precaution. They are too busy to train people, or they may simply have too little work to do. DENK believes in the principle "change the world, start with yourself." We therefore also ask the Cabinet to create more internships within the government in order to overcome the shortage of internships due to the corona crisis. For this purpose, during the General Political Reviews, a motion was tabled by Azarkan, co-signed by Mr Jetten, to be precise: the motion in part No. 34 (35570). I would like to table this motion during the votes on the Social Affairs budget and even amend it by including a concrete piece on how many additional places we can create in the government for internships. I am curious about the reaction of the Minister for Social Affairs, all the more so because he really jumped up and said: yes, I would very much like to. Mr. Chairman. Young people are not only in a difficult situation on the internship market; for example, the number of people under 24 with debts has increased by as much as 70% over the past five years. News articles often say that the blame lies with young people themselves, that they drink too much coffee at the Starbucks or buy too much and expensive clothing. And that may be the case, but we find it too easy to place that responsibility alone on those young people. There is a structural error among young people, and DENK also looks at the role and responsibility of the government to change this. It's absurd, it's really absurd, how easily young people can still stand red, apply for a credit card or build growing debts at online webshops. As far as DENK is concerned, it should not be made too easy for young people to build debts. There are many programmes and a lot of research has been done to improve the financial capacity of young people, but this is still not working enough. That is why I ask the government: how is it going to ensure that more attention is paid to education for finance and the role of money and debt in life? Mr. Chairman. DENK also sees that homelessness is increasing among young adults under 30. Many come from broken or poor families, or they are young people under the supervision of youth care. They are suddenly left to their own devices and buried under obligations and accounts at the time they grow up. Many become homeless not only because they grow up, but also because their parents evict them, or they are evicted as a family. I believe that the SP colleagues also asked for attention to be paid to this. In corona time we read a lot of poignant stories about this. Then I ask the government: how are we going to help this group of young people? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the income position of older people, so that Mrs Van Brenk will soon be able to take over. A large group of Dutch people who emigrated to the Netherlands in the last century live in poverty: the Surinamese and Antillean Dutch who moved to the Netherlands in the 1970s, but also the former Moroccan and Turkish guest workers who have built up their existence here since the 1960s. It is precisely in these times of corona that it is important to look at vulnerable elderly people with and without migration backgrounds. Because of language problems, they do not always find their way. What is the government going to do to support this group? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u195	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u196	Mr. Chairman. What is the social state of the Netherlands after four years of Rutte cabinet? Did it make us feel better? Has purchasing power improved? Is the labour market balanced? Is everyone in? Let's take stock of the situation. The labour market is still not balanced, despite a Labour Market Act in balance; a name that falsely suggests otherwise. Social inequality is increasing due to corona. There's still a lot of people standing by the side for a long time. Fifty-six people, older unemployed and people with disabilities are particularly hard to get to work. And purchasing power has only slightly improved over the past four years for people on low incomes and benefit recipients. Unfortunately, this also applies to pensioners. Despite the average rate of return of 7%, pensions have not been increased, but are threatened with reductions. The government's social and labour market policies must once again become more the shield for vulnerable and less promising groups in society, and prevent and reduce social inequality. That goes for now, in this crisis, but also after that. Young and old must reap the benefits of the best pension system in the world. That is our message to this cabinet today. Mr. Chairman. Ensure an even purchasing power development for people who work, people who cannot work and people who have worked. Looking back, people's wallets don't lie. Over the period 2018 to 2020, workers increased by more than 5% in purchasing power, and pensioners increased by about 2.5%. That stings. Can the Minister explain this big difference? Is the bread cheaper for pensioners? In 2021, the purchasing power gap between workers and people with an AOW will widen again. Totally unbalanced and unfair. Many people who have just lost their jobs or are now going to lose because of corona, have nothing to do with the positive purchasing power picture presented on Princess' Day. It could be in the trash. Give these people a good, temporary income support and avoid a deep poverty trap that completely ruins their lives and the future. Once again, we are calling for a structural increase in the minimum wage, which I believe we have heard before this evening in order to reduce the number of working poor and prevent new debt and poverty. The statutory minimum wage has not been rising evenly with wages and inflation for years. The time is now. The support for increase is strong. Now lift the people out of the low-income swamp, of course through work, but also by raising the income base for workers, people with benefits and people with AOW. For years, if not decades, it has been claimed that raising the minimum wage would cost a lot of jobs, but just before the corona crisis even turned out to be the Central Planning Office. A higher minimum wage is not at all detrimental to the economy. It is a pity, yes, even unacceptable, if the corona crisis now puts that debate, which at last seemed to be resolved positively, back on its feet. We need to move on now. So I'm counting on motions. Otherwise I have an offer of my own, but I hope that we can at least take a nice step on Thursday. Mr. Chairman. I come to the labour market policy. Make sure that social inequality does not increase further as a result of this crisis. Kim Putters of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau warns about this. Avoid a lost generation of flex workers, young people, self-employed people, lower-skilled people with disabilities and people with a migration background. And, as we say, 55-plussers in the WW. 50PLUS finds it unacceptable if these people are put aside socially. The labour market balance has been lost. To date, far too little has been done with the opinion of the Borstlap Committee, the Regulatory Committee. There are still many crooked employment agencies that make heavy profits over the back of many Eastern European workers by combining work and shameful housing. Nothing's been done with it yet. The reduction of the dismissal tradition and the shorter WW period: yes, that is effectively cut in. However, the tax difference between the self-employed and the employee has so far hardly been addressed. That should have been given priority. Competition in the labour market is not good. We underline this once again by an exemplary example, which shows that the social system can only be sustainable if we bear it together and with solidarity financially. We quote Sigrid Hemels, Professor of Tax Law: "Solidarity is not a one-way street, not even forzzp'ers." An employee will pay a tax on his salary from €7,851. An entrepreneur does this only from a profit of €26,949, so after deduction of operating costs. Moreover, the tax-reduced income gives the zzp'er higher fees. So much for solidarity. 50PLUS believes that all forms of work should be treated as fiscally equal as possible. That's real solidarity. When will this balance on the labour market actually be achieved? What does this minister do before he waves off? Mr. Chairman. Young and old need each other badly. Society and the current crisis demand that bad times be bridged. Early retirement for one is a possible career start or an opportunity for the other. No one has any interest in both of them waiting in welfare for better times. The government can bridge that. Is the Minister going to take care of that? I'd like a response. Have an eye for 50-plussers. 50PLUS lacks any sense of urgency in the cabinet. We lack an identifiable, targeted approach to long-term unemployment from 50-plussers and guidance to work in times of corona. Older people do not receive any targeted approach in the support and recovery package. Move forward now with a firm, planned follow-up to the Action Plan Perspective for 50-plussers, with particular attention to combating age discrimination. We also do not want lost generation 50-plussers in WW and assistance. About half of the people in the WW and welfare has been around 50 years or older. Can the Minister indicate how he is implementing the vote on open hearing? And how is he going to promote anonymous application? This can help 50-plussers and other less likely people in the labour market. Isn't now the moment to give this a flying start? People with disabilities also risk becoming the child of the corona account. The number of regular jobs for these people is falling. We really think it is necessary to protect these jobs. So make sure that social development companies and their expertise are maintained, so that they can receive these people and as much as possible back to regular work. Stop cutting back on these social development companies. Ensure an early decision on the financial compensation for 2021 so that the service can be maintained. Additional investments are needed. We would like to refer to Cedris' comments. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State respond to this? Mr. Chairman. It is 50PLUS a thorn in the eye that the current distribution system within the participation is still not linked to the performance delivered. Now take care of the incentive needed to use the budget for which it is intended and also provide sufficient budget for sheltered workplaces. Do not abandon vulnerable people on the labour market. Mr. Chairman. Some comments on aid and recovery measures. The cabinet has taken an important step with the recent supplementary package, but more is needed in structural terms. Do not build up the regular support and recovery package, not while the corona crisis is still manifest. Limit the measures that have been tightened up for retraining, retraining and further training which are not yet underway. Just make sure you're okay. Delete the partner key and the intended power key in the Tozo. 50PLUS also asks the corona investment package to focus on the preservation and creation of work. 50PLUS proposes to extend the re-entry conditions, the return guarantee, in case of dismissal for business reasons for the duration of the corona crisis from the current legal 26 weeks to two years. I'd like a response. Do not increase social inequality by forgetting people who are outside all corona support measures and making them massively receive assistance. Make sure you have a solid income recovery net. We call for increased access to the WW and an extension of the short-term WW for the duration of the emergency packages for companies. The duration of the WW is now close, or is about to expire, for people who need to be extended for the duration of the corona crisis. Provide additional income support for people who are not eligible for unemployment benefit. The FNV has made good proposals for this. A form of crisis income needs to be realised, as people at the bottom of the labour market are being left out of work massively by means of government measures. 50PLUS also wants to delete the cost-sharing standard, the household care fine. It is completely at odds with the care of those who need it now. You need each other. This deepens social inequality and increases financial need, especially in times of crisis. Mr. Chairman. It's just been mentioned by "Who was it again?" D66: 50PLUS, together with the PvdA, GroenLinks and the SP, has made an initiative bill for equal pay. That is still very much needed in these times. I trust a positive sound from all the other parties, but I would also like to have a response from the Minister: how does he view it? Because it's still necessary. Mr. Chairman. I just got a small introduction from DENK: let people in retirement provision and benefit finally reap the benefits of the best pension system in the world. Avoid unnecessary discounts, now and in the long run. The financial space for that is there. Give people security about their pension and purchasing power. This can be done generously, with tripled pension assets since 2002 and the average return on them. Security of income for millions of pensioners contributes to the recovery of the economy. The average pension is €600 to €800 gross per month, on top of the AOW. We still have to tax it. The pension allowance also reduces the right to rent and care allowance. That's not a big deal. These are pensions of €500 to €600 net, which have not been compensated for price increases for 12 years. So are we talking about wealthy baby boomers with unrealistic expectations? I don't think so. It's about a huge mass of millions of pensioners who don't have a big pension at all. 2% of pensioners live in poverty. 10% of retired 90-year-olds live in poverty. Just up there is a large group of elderly people who have worked for decades for the few hundred euros I just mentioned. The proposed new pension system does not compensate for 12 years of missed indexation, but it turns to a new system that, if we had used it in recent years, would have led to substantial indexation. I would like to emphasise once again how much pensioners of the Netherlands are disadvantaged by the artificial lower interest rates imposed for more than a decade on retired and pension-saving Netherlands. The Minister does not offer any compensation for the 12 years of implicit discounts and no form of recovery payment. There will still be a risky transition, with continuous threat of discounts. And as a blow to the flames, we must also conclude that, although returns are paid in the new system, they are paid out over ten years, after paying for a collective buffer and after the ball-ball-redistribution of the return. The Minister calls that "lifecycle investment." But recently, at the Pension Agreement round table, I noticed that there is very little attention to the cost reduction. In fact, no attention whatsoever, no ambitious approach to the cost of the pension sector. Mr Van Oosterom said that there was 2 billion to be saved. 2 billion, out of the total cost of 9 billion, over 60 years: 120 billion. It is a shame that this Chamber does not pay attention to this and does not demand that opportunities be used for a win-win situation. No, then Cees Grimbergen is right. He said: "The consultants, the ICT advisors and all kinds of other interim types are dancing on the table: years of work and years of fat income." But this is at the expense of returns. We must be bolder and dare to tackle the sector. Because they have managed to hijack a simple service, which with the right digital support can be organized much cheaper. That's a missed opportunity, a capital mistake, and I hate that there's no eye for this in this Chamber. As long as the Netherlands has the best capitalised pension system in the world, pension discounts should not take place. If you want to cut short, talk first to those countries that have no reserves and that also get a bunch of EU money, that is to say, ours. Our pensions are cut off, while in other countries pensions are wisely seen as a means of boosting consumer confidence and spending. They don't have the money for that, but they do, right now. Even in Greece, pensioners still receive a post-payment of 1.4 billion; this is not the case in the Netherlands. This is what we have been talking about for several months now, possibly the biggest pension discounts I'll ever see in my life. This minister should be ashamed that he even thinks about this. Mr. Chairman. The risk of new poverty and debt from corona is huge. 50PLUS calls for substantial financial support and measures so that municipalities can cope with the expected influx of debt relief questions. The Poverty Coalition makes useful recommendations for this. The Dutch Client Council explains in its letter of 5 November that poverty among senior citizens is also a problem. A third of Dutch seniors have no savings or equity and the risk of poverty increases significantly from the 55th year on when people lose their jobs and remain unemployed for a long time. Poverty is also particularly common among elderly people, who often have to deal with high care and housing costs. This also applies to pensioners with an incomplete AOW and with a migration background. The National Client Council makes a number of concrete suggestions to address the problem of poverty among senior citizens. I would like a response from the Minister to this letter, if possible in writing. Finally, Mr President. I'm rounding up. The Rutte Cabinets have been able to see a significant increase in prosperity, but it has not been enough for workers and even less for people with low incomes, people with benefits and pensioners. The belief in the functioning of the market and the individual self-reliance of people and the systematic austerity of social security have not reduced social inequality in the past cabinet period. We are now once again faced with a historic choice through corona: let us become the great social inequality or not? 50PLUS believes that it is precisely now that the weaker on the labour market and the less well-off who deserve better protection. In the time remaining, let this cabinet make every effort to take the less promising and vulnerable people well to better times. Time will tell if the cabinet still picks up that glove. The choice is up to the electorate: praise for this cabinet or pitch and feathers? We'll know in March. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Thank you for finishing just before 11:00, as we agreed. We did it, thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-17-tweedekamer-51.u198	On Thursday, the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment will reply on behalf of the government. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber, the directors, the messengers, the clerks and the stenography service.
