ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	We are going to start examining the draft law amending the Gas Act on reducing demand for low-caloric gas from large customers. I would again like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	The first speaker is Mrs Beckerman of the SP, whom I give the floor to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. On 29 March 2018, the cabinet decided that the gas crane in Groningen should be closed. Already in 2012, the SodM advised not to pump more than 12 billion cubic cubic metres of gas from the Groningen field. But since the earthquake at Huizinge in 2012, 226 billion cubic tons of gas have been extracted. For years, Groningen fought for turning off the gas crane. In the streets and in the courts, reduction was enforced. It took too long for the cabinet to act. This year, almost eight years later, the gas extraction comes at the 12 billion cubic metres advised by the SodM in 2012. It was a good decision of the cabinet in 2018, although immediately after the dramatic decision to pause the reinforcement of unsafe houses. But of course we're not the worst. We continue to congratulate the cabinet on the step to end gas extraction. But no matter how we turn it or turn it around, that's the news from two years ago. What's today's score? Shell and Exxon have already received at least 90 million compensation for stopping gas extraction and more compensation will follow. The nine largest consumers of Groningen gas, including the same Shell, are going to be compensated by tens of millions for not being allowed to use Groningen gas anymore. The compensation to the major polluters is therefore laid down by law, but the certainty that the gas extraction in Groningen will stop is not, however. Thousands of Groningen are still in great uncertainty as to whether their unsafe home will ever be strengthened. Many households in the Netherlands are in great uncertainty as to whether they can afford the sustainability of their homes. 650,000 Dutch people are already in energy poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	It just happened real fast. Do I understand that Mrs Beckerman sees all nine companies as major polluters and that if we impose something on them, we will not have to compensate them for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	Those nine major users of the Groningen gas get 75 million public money after today. The large consumers have been compensated, Shell and Exxon have been compensated. They got 90 million and they get more. But what about the other side? What about the Groningers, who are still waiting for compensation? What is the situation with households in the Netherlands? I shall return to that in my speech. I would like to propose not only to reserve 75 million for those nine large users, but also to reserve the same amount to provide security to households. Now we are opting for security for these large consumers, so why should we not also give the households that security? I hope Mrs Mulder will support my proposal, because these households are now in deep uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	Let me make sure that I understand correctly: Mrs Beckerman first referred to those nine large consumers as the major polluters. She does not repeat that now, so she simply thinks that there are nine companies that should be properly compensated for a measure that we are imposing on them, precisely because of the safety of the Groningen people. I'm just trying to make it clear what Mrs Beckerman is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'm only gonna repeat it once more. I do call Shell a major polluter. I can repeat that a hundred times. We have fought for years to stop gas extraction. I would like to continue to congratulate the cabinet on this; that is not a problem. But that's really the news from two years ago. When I look at today's situation, I see that, and you can also see that Shell and Exxon have already received 90 million dollars and that they will get even more. We see that these large consumers, those polluters, or whatever you want to call them, are now getting 75 million. And what's the score for the Groningen? They're still in those unsafe houses. We haven't legally arranged for the gas extraction to stop. People are in that great uncertainty. That's the balance sheet two years later. I hope that you too will continue to fight for those Groningers, for those households that are now in great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mrs. Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	I would just like to point out that the SP Group calls the nine large companies here just as polluters and very easily gets over them and at the same time says that this compensation is actually reasonable. I find that a confusing story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	Yes, a confusing story is of course certainly for you, if you do not see that this is the balance after two years, if you call that confusing. You also know, and you call it over and over again, that strengthening unsafe houses in Groningen is a mess? Only a thousand of those unsafe homes have been reinforced. That's the balance sheet two years later. We see tens of millions going to Shell, to Exxon, to those companies. Dozens of millions, and where's the money for Groningen? Where's the money for those households? That's what I'm throwing up. I would be very sorry if you find that confusing, because this is a problem that we should all be fighting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman, I actually understand that Mrs. Mulder says it's confusing. This is due to the confusion that Mrs Beckerman of the SP herself paints here. Because there's something tied up that shouldn't actually be tied up. That is, on the one hand, the safety of the Groningen people. For that, we need to return gas extraction to zero as soon as possible. To this end, we must help these companies to reduce their dependence on gas as quickly as possible. That's one part of the story. The other part of the story is that on that safer surface, which hopefully will be safe faster, I share with you that all of this takes far too long to make sure those houses are safe. This is still not enough, but it is not because of the money, but above all because it is an overly complex, overly rigged organisation. So I would like to keep those two really separate from each other for the purity of things and the image outwards, and not to flicker on one pile of flicker, sorry, not a parliamentary language, toss on one pile of flicker and sweep it all together. That's really very confusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	I get it from a coalition that you don't want to put it together, because, of course, it's kind of painful that things are going so badly. But this is the state of affairs, isn't it? Yeah, Groningen fought for years for that reduction in gas extraction. I once stood with the Council of State myself to fight for that reduction as a resident. That is what you have been fighting for; it is fantastic that this is happening and I congratulate the cabinet on it. Today we take stock of the situation and talk about a law for how that is going to happen. I see in that law that it says that those nine large users are compensated. I don't see any compensation for Groningen. I don't see any legal basis for this gas extraction. That is why I have tabled an amendment. You've been able to read it. I hope you'll go along with that. We need to give Groningen that certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	I repeat once again that putting it on a scale like this does not contribute to the imagery, and certainly not to the solution of the problems we have before us. That is on the one hand making sure that this gas extraction goes to zero, as soon as possible, with everything that is in us, and on the other hand making sure that we accelerate that reinforcement of the houses. That is the commitment of this coalition and also of my party, and that is what I stand for. I don't see any reason to call that off in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	In response to Mr Sienot, what are you saying? You say now: 'We have a debate on the phasing out of gas extraction, but Mrs Beckerman, why do you bring up these Groningers? 'Cause those two don't belong together."? That's what you're saying. We are having a debate on reducing the demand for low-caloric gas from large customers, and you say, "Yes, but you are sweeping the situation of the Groningen people into one heap." Yeah, I do, and I do it on purpose. Because I saw Mr Wiebes in my Groningen last Monday. It was there at the start of the construction of a nitrogen plant. He was at the close of one of those gas wells a few weeks ago. All things I welcome, but where he wasn't, were with the people who live a hundred yards away, who receive a letter in writing to give them hope first and then to drill that hope back into the ground that their unsafe home has still not been provided. If I'm not allowed to throw that in a pile, I'm really going to leave it with Mr. Sienot. I think that's a very, very nasty other side of the coin. It is a good thing that this gas extraction is finally being phased out, and I will repeat that. That's what we fought for. But it's not right what's happening in Groningen right now. In fact, it is too scandalous for words to be discussed in this way by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	Finally, Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	I am just trying to confirm or strengthen the image that this cabinet does not take the concerns of the Groningen people seriously, and that is what is happening here. It is really awkward for me to do that, because the Groningers have been greatly helped in reducing gas extraction. That's what's happening here. But that's just part of the story, which no one disagrees about either. There is some kind of improper contradiction being created here, and I object to that, Mr President, because there is no such contradiction. Too often we stand here as Chambers, I say to Mrs Beckerman, to fight together for the Groningers. That is necessary every time, and I agree with Mrs Beckerman that that is sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	Then let me try to meet Mr. Sienot. If he wants to hang out, I'm all for it. I even mentioned just now that you are not even going into an amendment that I have tabled to this bill to ensure that Groningers get the assurance that that gas can no longer be turned open, and if that has to be done, it will have to be changed by law. Let's settle that legally. We will now arrange compensation for Shell and Exxon, we will arrange compensation for the nine largest users; why not lay this down legally? If you think it is improper that I am also talking about the interests of the Groningen people here, then come to us and vote in favour of that amendment. You can even file it with me. I will also table a motion on the reinforcements. Yes, I like to hang out, but I will not be forbidden to talk about the other side of the coin now, which is all those Groningers who are still in uncertainty. I showed it this morning: in 2015, Minister Kamp had to go through the dust here in the Lower House because he had not managed to strengthen 3,000 homes in that year. That was in 2015. Now we don't even hear excuses anymore, when the final score is only 1,000. In 2015, 3,000 fortified homes were promised, in 2020 we are only on 1,000 fortified homes. I keep calling that what it is: a disgrace. I hope we can hang out there together, and I am going to make proposals for that today. I hope you support them, you can even file them, I'll let you have them, as long as we figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	I would ask Mrs Beckerman to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was at the balance, two years after it, if you will, historic decision to turn off the gas tap. That balance sheet is security for Shell, security for large consumers, uncertainty for Groningers, uncertainty for households. Let me start with that uncertainty for Groningers. Since the earthquake at Huizinge, twelve times as much money went from Groningen to The Hague as from The Hague to Groningen. Every day, since that quake, 13 million euros came in here, made of our insecurity. But the other way around, it was frugal. The Ombudsman therefore said he was more gloomy than ever after a visit to Groningen a few weeks ago. Previously, he believed after a visit that things would be better in the future, but the practice made him cynical. With this law, with the decision to end gas extraction in Groningen, the Minister is right to address the cause of the problems in Groningen. But the cause of the misery in Groningen has long since been not just gas extraction, but the way the government deals with us. That cause must be removed. So our commitment today is to give Groningen certainty. Why isn't it legally established that the gas extraction from Groningen will be terminated? This law still leaves open the possibility to open the gas valve again. Why? Why, with this law, compensate companies with millions, but not give Groningers the assurance that these promises will actually become a reality? We have tabled an amendment on this point, which I mentioned earlier. I hope for broad support, especially from the cabinet. After the decision to turn off the gas tap, a few weeks later the decision was taken to pause the reinforcement of unsafe houses. But that backup never got started again. Since Huizinge only 1,000 homes in Groningen have been strengthened. There's 26,000 on the list. A lot of Groningers don't believe it's gonna happen anymore. For example, the De Vries family from Overschild. They're waiting for backup. Their house is shot and crooked. The walls are coming off the floors. They're afraid that if the gas extraction stops, the government's gonna withdraw completely and nothing's gonna happen to their house. Research carried out by the University of Groningen shows that only 5% of people with little damage and 14% of people with multiple damage believe that their home will ever be strengthened. That backup is still a big mess. If the Minister is sincere, we assume that he wants to tackle the cause of the problems in Groningen, this is what he has to tackle. Government failure itself is the cause of the misery. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a law that regulates legal compensation for the largest consumers of Groningen gas. Where is our legal right to compensation and our right to safe living?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	I have one more question for Mrs Beckerman. The law deals with the obligation for nine companies in the Netherlands to stop using low-caloric gas, a duty that applies only to them and no one else, neither to citizens nor to other companies. The law also provides that the costs incurred by the company itself are to be borne by the company. Does Mrs. Beckerman recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	Yes, I acknowledge that, and that 75 million is reserved to ensure that those costs can also be borne.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	But if I read it correctly, it is not necessarily the case that all costs are borne. I have a question to the Minister about this, but there are additional costs on the side of the customer, who has to make this switch. I do think it is important for everyone in this dossier that we name all the nuances and that, as far as I can see, there will also be more costs for these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	In the reply we see that there can indeed be an enterprise risk. We see that 75 million is reserved for this. My question is simply: why not also reserve the same amount for households? I'll go on with that. What assurance does the Minister give to those injured that the reinforcements will resume? Thousands of people don't know what they're up to. When are people gonna get that certainty? Can the Minister explain to all residents of the at least 26,000 properties on the list this year what will happen when? Does the Minister still promise to strengthen the law before the summer comes to both chambers? Mr. Chairman. Then the uncertainty for households across the Netherlands. Every time we point out that many households are concerned about whether they can still pay for the sustainability of their homes and every time we point out that more and more Dutch people are having trouble paying their energy bills, the Minister says: I do not conduct income policy through the energy bill. But nothing could be further from the truth. While Shell has paid zero euros profit tax, the company has been compensated for the higher energy bill over the past year and compensated by 90 million for reducing gas extraction from Groningen. More money follows. As a blow to the flame, after today, the same Shell also gets compensation for not being allowed to use Groningen gas anymore. Mr. Chairman. No one is more eligible for the title "reverse Robin Hood" than Eric Wiebes. Today, we are legally establishing that the major consumers of Groningen gas such as Shell will receive tens of millions of compensation for stopping gas extraction in Groningen. Why not reserve the same amount for households? Both stopping gas extraction and the Climate Agreement are, of course, huge operations, which only succeed if there is support and if the good is done. Now, time and time again, the cabinet chooses to compensate the largest companies, while households often have to choose for themselves. My question is actually: when, for example, the sewer was built, was that also collectively arranged? We didn't say dig a slot from your house, did we? When we connected people to the Groningen gas, the government went door to door to door to make sure that people were making progress. Then why are people left in uncertainty now? Let me come back to Mr Van der Lee's question. We'll give those companies that security. I'm not going to argue with that. But where is that security for the households? Mr. Chairman. After today, Groningers are still in uncertainty and households in the Netherlands are in uncertainty. But Shell and Exxon have received at least 90 million compensation for stopping gas extraction and more money follows. Some large consumers of Groningen gas, including the same Shell, are going to be compensated by at least 75 million for not being allowed to use Groningen gas anymore. While Shell is compensated for not winning gas and is compensated because they are not allowed to use and so tens of millions of public money, they decided on Monday to take Groningers to court again. Irresistible! Shell/NAM goes into cassation to not have to compensate Groningers for their intangible damage. I'd like to ask the Minister what he's gonna do about it. Is he simply going to transfer tens of millions of public money to Shell again, or is he standing up to this outrageous behavior? The nine largest users of Groningen gas are free to choose whether to switch to sustainable gas or to other gas. My question is whether it will be possible for them to be compensated again if the Netherlands were to stop using high-caloric gas in the distant future. Is it already known which large consumers choose? Do they choose sustainable or choose the option to switch to high-caloric gas? Mr President, I shall leave it at that. My final point is that I also believe that the parliamentary survey on gas extraction should be launched as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I call Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with a mixed mind, for two reasons. Firstly, we are talking about a law with a limited scope. It has a lot of impact on the companies, but you can't separate it from the whole context. There has been a lot of debate on this. Mrs Beckerman has also paid a great deal of attention to it. The dilemma is: how broad do you make this debate? The second is that I think I should say something about the context. It is simply a good thing that it should also be said that the Minister is submitting this bill. It is also a good thing that the Minister went further some time ago than what the coalition agreement stipulated by reducing gas extraction faster than was agreed in the coalition agreement. What's good has to be said. Mr. Chairman. In another role, I've seen the whole past. I've had many conversations with the minister's predecessor. I have seen that in the Hague system reality the demand for reducing gas extraction ran into a wall. Because of the system reality here in The Hague it was said: that is not possible, because security of supply is crucial. As a result, a lot of time has been lost. It is good that this step is taken, but it should have been taken much earlier. Mr. Chairman. The second one is a bit bitter. That's how the damage settlement is arranged on the one hand for the companies and on the other hand for people. I'll keep that Gronings brief and I won't use as many words as Mrs Beckerman, but I'll say in Groningen: it's ain bouncy. Every Groninger knows exactly what I mean. I would like to say one thing about the resolution of civil damage. In a rule of law, an organisation such as NAM and Shell may indeed appeal and appeal to the Supreme Court against a judgment in cassation. But I could also imagine that when it comes to the question of intangible damage, given history, organisations say to themselves: that is actually my honor too much. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to convey that message to the companies. I ask him not to exert pressure, because in the rule of law, organisations are free to go to court, but not so much legal, but morally speaking, a limit has been reached. Then the bill itself. I will not make it a cliffhanger: the PvdA will support this bill. However, I do have a number of questions about the way in which loss compensation takes place. Are we going to run the risk of continuing proceedings against the allocation measure? In this context, I would point out that it should also be foreseeable for companies that there should be a right to supply gas. The Mining Act doesn't allow gas extraction to take place unbiasedly, I ask the Minister. In a way, it is also an entrepreneurial risk if the supply of gas is stopped because of a significant public interest. Mr. Chairman. The third point. With this bill we are going to take a step in phasing out the gas grid. Some of the gas grid will not be used anymore. This will happen more and more, including in residential areas. The question is, what are you going to do with the gas grid that is no longer being used? You're gonna preserve that? You're gonna charge that for re-use? There's still uncertainty about that. My question to the Minister is whether this is a good idea. Is sufficient research being carried out on re-use options? We know that we are also dependent on molecular energy carriers in the future. Hydrogen is mentioned a lot in it. Of course, there are still many uncertainties. We must avoid irreversible disadvantage by not preserving the gas network properly until the question is answered whether and, if so, to what extent it can be re-destined. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to present scenarios in what way that can be done and what social costs and benefits are involved. Mr. Chairman. Part of the cost of decommissioning the network is allocated to all users. The documents state that the cost of switching to the network operator will be calculated by increasing the transport rate across all customers. In fact, no answer has been given to our question as to what this means for the prices of small consumers. I think there should be transparency about this. If we are not going to use parts of the gas network and the costs are being allocated to all consumers, this must be done in a transparent manner. This is the first step, I have just said, in the decommissioning of parts of the gas grid, but in the future this will happen more often. I have said in a previous debate that there is one final user of the gas network, and it is difficult to charge the last user for all the network costs. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he would like to clarify a little more about how this type of cost is now, but also in the future, being turned over to other users of the gas network. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Now we're gonna listen to Mr. Kops from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr. Chairman. The drama in Groningen lasts and lasts. In view of the many thousands of damage cases and the extent of all the misery, it is natural that gas extraction there should be reduced to zero. By the way, that should have happened a long time ago. With this bill, the nine largest gas customers will be prohibited from extracting low-caloric gas, Groningen gas, from the grid by 1 October 2022. They then have the choice to switch to high-caloric gas. The remaining 161 large consumers are prohibited from extracting more than 100 million cubic metres of low-caloric gas in a gas year. As the PVV has always said, do we have to get rid of the gas? No, but of course we have to get rid of the Groningen gas, and as soon as possible. The Minister writes that he has "so far received no signals that these adjustments would not be feasible." So it's about the adjustments to go from low to high-caloric gas. That sounds a bit easy, because "feasible" doesn't have to mean "without problems." Could the Minister please explain something else? I am certainly referring to the exemption that can be granted in an extreme situation for the ban on low-caloric gas. Does the Minister expect that to happen? What's he taking into account? The Minister writes that he "considers the variety of situations that might arise with each customer, it is not desirable to establish at this stage further criteria for granting such an exemption." Why not? And how is the granting of such an exemption going in practice? How does the Minister ensure that the reduction of gas extraction in Groningen is mainly not delayed? That's very important. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then the export of gas. In 2018, 27 billion cubs were still exported. That export goes on until the gas year 2028-2029, we read. If you read that, it sounds a bit harsh, because the Groningenveld will be closed by 2022 at the latest. That's what the Minister said. That is of course good, but it still feels a bit harsh that low-caloric gas is exported longer than it is extracted from the Groningen field. That's what I'm talking about. Here in the Netherlands we want to end the Groningen gas extraction as soon as possible. The demand for low-caloric gas is limited by this bill. All that is fine, but the exports of that low-caloric gas will continue for a longer period. Then the question is: can we really not reduce these exports more quickly? Without destroying old cows: the PVV has already argued years ago that these export contracts should be opened up and that gas extraction in Groningen should be reduced more quickly. But then they didn't want to. The Minister writes that he is dependent on measures taken abroad, and we are talking about Belgium, Germany and France, in order to reduce the demand for low-caloric gas. "Depending on" sounds very wait-and-see. How does the Minister guarantee that exports will be stopped before the export contracts expire? I'd like a response. A nitrogen plant is now being built in Zuidbroek, where imported high-caloric gas can be added nitrogen, making it low-caloric gas and therefore usable in the Netherlands. By the way, that nitrogen is simply taken out of the air. So we see that nitrogen can also be good for something, but that aside. Is it true that this nitrogen capacity will also be used to meet the export obligations? Then the question is who is actually building that nitrogen plant for. Just for ourselves or also, or perhaps mostly, for abroad? I'd like a response. In order to meet these export obligations, we need to import gas first. It costs money. That gas should then be converted to low-caloric gas. That too costs money. The construction of that nitrogen plant already costs EUR 500 million. And all that in order to continue to supply low-caloric gas abroad at our cost, while our biggest customers need to rapidly convert to high-caloric gas. It's very hard to explain. Can the Minister comment on this? If we can stop exports of low-caloric gas sooner, then we may have to reduce the consumption of low-caloric gas less strictly here in the Netherlands. Or perhaps there will even be customers that we can spare. Is that right? I'd like a response. Suppose the export is completely finished, and that there is enough nitrogen capacity in the Netherlands to provide the whole country with imported but low-caloric gas, does the ban then lapse in this bill? I am asking that question, especially in view of the fact that this ban expires by 1 October 2030 at the latest, and possibly even earlier, as we read. Then what happens after that? Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek, which is now being built and in two years' time it will be good for 7 billion cube gas. Now we read that all 170 large customers together are good for a consumption of 6 billion cuub. This bill, the Minister expects, leads to a reduction in demand by about 3 billion cubic metres. Is the 3 billion cubic metres we are going to save really not to be absorbed by the present nitrogen capacity and/or gas storage? I'd like a response. Is it true that once the nitrogen capacity has been expanded with the Zuidbroek plant, those large customers who could in principle have continued to use low-caloric gas simply because there is enough capacity? A further question is: why wasn't the nitrogen plant built much earlier? We all know that former Minister Kamp didn't want to do that, but Minister Wiebes, this minister, has been talking about the construction of that factory since he took office. Couldn't it have been much sooner? Couldn't we have saved the Groningen people a lot of misery and terrible delay on delay if there had been enough capacity much earlier? What took you so long? Mr. Chairman. Let me talk about gas production in the North Sea. For the first time in decades, there have been no successful gas- but also oil drilling on the Dutch part of the North Sea. According to the gas and oil companies, this is partly due to the nitrogen crisis, because no permits have been granted because of nitrogen. They warn that production in the North Sea will stop if politics in The Hague does not intervene quickly. What's the Minister gonna do about it? How is the Minister going to prevent production from actually stopping? Because the cabinet itself also has a clear preference for gas extraction from its own soil, as long as that happens safely, of course. Gas from the sea floor brings money to the Netherlands, while imports cost money. I would like to comment on this point. Finally, Mr President. We keep repeating: let the following be very clear. Do you want the land off the gas? No, of course not. But do we have to get rid of the Groningen gas? Yes, and as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about the enormous misery caused by the gas extraction in Groningen. I agree with everyone who expresses his impatience about the fact that we are far from being where we need to be, especially in the case of reinforcement but also in the case of damages. The Groningers have a right, and much faster than they get, to compensation, to a safe house and to a new future. Then we are talking about much, much more money than the 75 million that was just mentioned. The new Groningen National Programme alone amounts to 1.1 billion. But the resources needed to deal with the damage and the reinforcement are, I think, even more than that. Everything we discuss about that day in and day out has not yet led us to be where we need to be. We have also put forward new proposals on this subject this morning. So let's keep doing our best. What we are talking about today, I believe, is somewhat separate from that, but not in the sense that it would not be primarily about guaranteeing the safety of the Groningen people. This means: stop extracting gas from the Slochterveld as soon as possible. There are several buttons for that. Several appointments have been made. It has been said all necessary about the nitrogen plant. That's one of the buttons. I also mention the contracts with neighbouring countries and the transition that has been made there to get rid of low-caloric gas as quickly as possible. And an important button is the button we introduce now, which is the duty to stop taking low-caloric gas if you consume more than 100 million cubic metres a year. Honestly, that was adapted by letter of amendment. In my view, this is the average over three years, which seems to me to be right too, so that MTech is now also covered by this law. That is the commitment of this law. We only introduce this duty for nine companies, not for the rest of the Netherlands. That means that I can agree that forms of compensation are also being arranged. I do have some questions about that. The logic of compensation is mainly driven by the fact that it must now be done very quickly. It should be possible to switch to a fully renewable form of energy at once in the short term. We would all like to do that, but it is not possible to do that in just two years. So I understand the logic behind the compensation. There is a difference between the compensation that we all make possible by ensuring through the tariffs of the network operators that high-caloric gas is now being brought to these plants or installations, and the compensation for the costs incurred by the companies themselves. What I wanted to know is whether all the costs of those companies will be reimbursed. Or are there additional costs for these companies? I think it is good, also for transparency, to be as clear as possible about this. I also see that there are some questions from Zeeland. Not all companies use the gas purely as an energy source. Sometimes they use it as a raw material. Because it has a high nitrogen content, it also has a raw material element. I am also curious to see what the government intends to do in this respect with a Zeeuws company that is in that situation. So I'd like to hear more from the Minister. There is also an exemption. I would like to know a little more about how it can be used. Let me focus on a purely theoretical example, but perhaps it applies to one of the companies. Suppose within three to four years it is possible for one of these large companies to switch to a fully renewable form of energy use. Is that a possible reason for granting an exemption, yes or no? I think we should also see if we can seize that kind of opportunity. And if it isn't, well, then so be it. That is also clear, but I wonder if that possibility exists at all. Then there is a subject which is side by side, but which is still quite crucial. This is not only about the need to move quickly away from natural gas from Groningen, but at all from fossil gas and other fossil sources. We are increasingly dependent on gas imports. I wonder if the Minister has taken note of a recent study on global methane emissions. This showed that methane emissions from fossil fuel extraction are significantly higher than previously known. The good news was that methane emissions from permafrost, for example, are lower than assumed. Then what's good? That in the case of what we influence, namely the extraction of fossil, methane emissions can be controlled better than in the case of what we have less influence on, namely the thawing of permafrost. We are working hard to prevent the warming, but we also know that this is a huge task and is going to take a lot of time. However, I am curious to see to what extent these new scientific insights on fossil methane emissions are being processed in all the accounts that we are constantly using, looking at how many CO equivalents are emitted in certain fuels or saved by less polluting variants. It's a bit of a side street, but I'm wondering if the Minister would like to look into this. We are increasingly making this kind of comparison, including with regard to how we set up our instruments. Then it is important that we really have a picture of how much is being emitted, for example in the case of gas extraction. This also affects the discussion, whether it concerns Norwegian gas, gas from the North Sea or Putin gas, as is now referred to. That's just Russian gas. I hope that the Minister is prepared to say something about this or to carry out further studies on it, and to inform the Chamber about it at a later stage. Rounding up. Maybe I haven't even said it yet, but it seems clear to me that my group fully supports this law, especially because it is something that we really have in hand with each other at national level. It can also be seen with nine companies. On these other routes we are also dependent on other parties. So I would ask the Minister to give the most up-to-date state of affairs on all these buttons. Because in some areas we are dependent on other companies, for example in the case of storage at Norg. How's that going? What about the progress of the changeover in our neighbouring countries to which we are supplying gas? Is it on schedule? Are there or are there no delays? It is crucial that we move to zero in terms of gas extraction as soon as possible, but there are still uncertainties. It is precisely because of these uncertainties that this law is needed and deserves everyone's support. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Mr Sienot of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna drop right into the house: D66 is in favour of this law. We were just talking about it with Mrs. Beckerman of the SP. This is just important to do, especially for the Groningen people, to ensure that they can live in safe houses, hopefully as soon as possible. The ban makes it clear that the consumption of low-caloric gas is a thing of the past from 2022 onwards. That is necessary, because by 2022 the gas tap must be closed. In addition, this law offers opportunities for large companies to lead the way in gas-free production. Where gas was first an important export product, our country can now lead the way in making money with gasless, clean technology. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I would like to highlight the importance of this law and its commitment to the sustainability of energy efficiency. We consider this law to be very important because without this law there will remain a great demand for low-caloric gas and the Groningen field can be kept as back-up. We really want to avoid that. We need to close the gas tap for the Groningers. That responsibility rests on the shoulders of all of us, households and businesses. We're all gonna hang out in the next few years. We also understand that this is not an easy task for the nine companies. That's why we want the cabinet to help companies rebuild, so that they can show the rest of the world that they can: make money using clean techniques and work together on a future without natural gas. Businesses are concerned about the cost of the changeover. This is understandable, because the techniques are not yet widely available. On the other hand, the costs are largely compensated through a low-risk disadvantage compensation scheme. This shall be in accordance with the time limit for the prohibition to enter into force. If a company really does not manage to bring it within the time outside its own fault to bring it together, they may be able to make use of a temporary exemption. I think that Mr Knops of the PVV has asked very good questions about this, but I do understand the consideration of the exemption. Mr. Chairman. "Deciding for the question of whether there is a chance of survival for humanity in the short term threats, is whether we are all willing and able to escape at the last minute, and to direct technological development instead of the reverse." These were the words of Hans van Mierlo, in a speech on the occasion of the eleventh anniversary of the Christian Young Employers' Association on 11 September 1971. I mention his name here today in gratitude, because it's been ten years since he died. You could say that Van Mierlo was the first serious climate politician in our country. Under the leadership of D66, the Netherlands now chooses to distance itself from polluting gas and technological development efforts for renewable energy would have made him shine with pride. But again, we are doing this first and foremost for the Groningen people, and for the clear vision of the future that this law gives to the big consumers. Let us immediately make use of this conversion to develop alternatives to make them affordable, because the departure of natural gas also offers advantages. Companies become less sensitive to price changes of imported gas and geopolitical developments in, for example, Russia. In addition, we can develop new, clean techniques. Think of the use of green hydrogen, locally generated by windmills at sea. D66 sees many opportunities in that. We understand that the province of Groningen is now the flag for this. In addition, we can use the existing gas infrastructure. According to Kiwa inspection and testing institute, system operators can make the current natural gas network relatively easily suitable for the distribution of hydrogen. Developing green hydrogen in the economy also means that we can create a lot of jobs, jobs that we are unfortunately going to lose as a result of turning off the gas tap. In the coming years, more and more sustainable technologies such as green hydrogen will be available, but it is not self-evident and it calls for a government that encourages this, by giving space for experiments and grants. How does the Minister support industries, particularly these nine companies, in the process of conversion? How will he stimulate the sustainable techniques that are needed? I'd like to say, come on through with that hydrogen vision. The industry is eager to implement the Climate Agreement quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	Does Mr Sienot agree with me that the still quite mysterious but still upcoming Wopke-Wiebes fund should also finance hydrogen projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	I think that with Mr Van der Lee this is a very interesting suggestion, which I would like to make to the Minister. I understand that he and his colleagues are very busy coming up with this fund quickly. Then it will soon become more clear. But let me be very clear. Anything that helps us and what can contribute to the future earning capacity of the Netherlands hydrogen gas could play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	I am very pleased with that and I hope that you will increase the pressure on the cabinet to make the link between the fund and the sixth pillar of the Minister's letter of growth, namely to seize opportunities in the energy, industrial and agricultural transition. We really need to connect that to the fund. That hasn't happened yet, but it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	As I said in my first reaction, I think it is a very understandable question from Mr Van der Lee. I would like to put that question to the Minister; finally, they are busy with the fund. On every interesting suggestion, they say, we'll come back to it. I would like to say: get back to it quickly. Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	I always appreciate Mr Sienot's contribution. He's always optimistic. We need to take advantage of opportunities. When I'm a little cheerful, I say: well, guys, life is wonderful if you just look the right way. But I follow on from the question put by Mr Van der Lee. Mr Sienot referred the question about the Wopke-Wiebes Fund to the Minister, but I would imagine that D66 also had independent views on it. What are these independent views?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	My own view, or D66's independent view, is that green hydrogen is a very important substitute for natural gas. We need to get rid of the natural gas. Our own view is that natural gas should be replaced by these nine companies and that green hydrogen seems to be the main contender for this. They are molecules that can contain more energy than electrons. That's all very interesting. From which pot you will then finance it and at what point, you can disagree. You can discuss that and that will happen as soon as the Wopke-Wiebes fund sees the light of day. As I said, that is better yesterday than tomorrow, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	Finally, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	That's not a small pot, that's a big pot. And there is also a very big task. I repeat my question to Mr Sienot. The Netherlands has two distinctive advantages: we have a shallow sea and we have an excellent gas and transport network. So we have all the basic conditions for hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	Shouldn't we really be actively stimulating that? The Wopke-Wiebes fund is an alternative to this, but also a CO levy with a heavy backlock is an option. I'd like to see a little butter on D66's fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	Well, I think D66 is one of the parties that, sometimes together with the PvdA but also sometimes together with the CDA, is constantly committed to giving green hydrogen a good place. Recently I made a call for this within the SDE+, later the SDE++. You know that there is still a very high price: €1,000 per tonne of CO avoided. It also requires serious study. Mr Moorlag is well aware of this. In my opinion, the right order is: to provide some experiments, such as green hydrogen in conjunction with windmills in the North Sea; to ensure that it is already included in the procurement of projects; to encourage green hydrogen with a number of large, larger projects; and then to learn how to scale it up further. Meanwhile, the rest of the world doesn't sit still. You'll see it's getting cheaper. So you can also choose your source of funding at the right stage in which you find yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	The Council of State warns that a ban could lead to a postponement of industry's sustainable innovation through conversion. I think we should avoid that as much as possible. My question to the Minister is how he will prevent the conversion of industry from delaying investment in sustainable techniques. How do we ensure that the costs of the changeover remain as low as possible? How do we prevent these one-on-one being passed on to customers? Companies need to reduce their CO emissions significantly in the framework of the climate agreement agreements. Let us prevent them from investing twice as much as possible. That is why I would like to support a stronger commitment to energy efficiency. We need less green hydrogen for energy production if we waste less energy. You don't have to generate energy that saves you. An uninsulated single-family home uses four and a half times as much energy as a modern one. Betting for energy efficiency is, in short, never regretable. Moreover, it reduces the dependence on gas or another energy source structurally. That is why I ask the Minister how he supports industry, but also challenges it to reduce energy demand. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The gas tap of the Groningen gas field is quickly closed, if it is up to us as soon as possible. This is important for the safety of the Groningen people. But that also requires a change in households and industry. D66 wants the government to help them and compensate them where necessary. If we do it right, the law can be the starting point for a natural gas-free industry, in which we quickly learn how to make clean technologies easier and cheaper, so that it becomes interesting for more and more companies. Gas was a successful export product for a long time. Now let's make sure we do it without gas. Then our independence of gas will deliver the export product of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	There's a question from Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	I hope I quote Mr Sienot correctly. I heard him say at the beginning of his speech: the gas crane must be closed by 2022. That's a nice quote. I hope it's true. I would like to ask Mr Sienot whether he would like to regulate this legally, so whether he would like to record it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	I understand Mrs Beckerman's question. I didn't go into it just now because we were having another debate at the time. I see that Mrs Beckerman and I are always having a discussion. "Yeah, but let's say it's gotta be zero." We said it should be under 12 billion as soon as possible and it should go to zero. "No, it must be zero!" Eventually, this minister managed to go to zero. Now there is a law that will significantly reduce the consumption of the largest customers by three billion cubic tons. Just go down, that's it; they can't use that anymore. That gives me a great deal of confidence that we will indeed be at zero in 2022 with this law and all the other interventions that the Minister is doing. It is perhaps too early to legally lay down at this time that we will never call on a Groninger gas field again. At the same time, I agree with you. The Groningers need as much security as possible. I am therefore very curious to see what the Minister's reflection on your amendment will be. But that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	Yeah, this is kind of disappointing, of course. Laws can be changed. That's exactly what we're doing here. We'll probably do it twice this afternoon. It's harder than giving the minister all the power. You've spoken beautiful words. You want to give that certainty to Groningen. Couldn't we just say: we're laying it down legally and we're not just gonna let it happen that the gas tap will open again, as far as I'm concerned forever? But you also know that that law can still be changed. What's against it? You're very proud of the Minister. I've also congratulated him on several occasions. It's really historic. Beautiful, fantastic. It's been fought for a long time and fought for it from Groningen. It's a good thing it's happening. Let's give that certainty. What exactly is the problem with that? Make sure it's legally recorded. We can always change laws again. As far as I'm concerned, we're not doing it. I don't see what the problem is yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	We both agree that we need to get to zero as soon as possible. It's taken care of. In 2022, the gas tap closes; if we can do it sooner, we have to do it. With this law, we take these much-needed steps. Whether we can take a step further and also legally secure that there should not even be backup... At the moment, I think it is too early to say to you so loudly: yes, I am for that. I'm just being very honest about that. But I'll ask you the question with the Minister. I am curious to see which comments there may be. Maybe he thinks it's a good idea and he has a lot of faith in it himself. That's different than putting the power all the way to the minister. It is simply a question of not being able to see whether it is the best way to meet all the conditions that we have to meet. Even in a very cold winter, you can hardly imagine it after the current winter, we need to be able to guarantee security of supply. I understand the Minister's consideration. That is why I am now saying that I am not in favour of including the legal obligation if it is not possible. I can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	The point is that it puts the importance of this possible cold winter back above the interests of the Groningers. We could also say: let us all be proud that we are regulating this period of government and let us just record it. It's just a different angle. Many Groningers are in enormous uncertainty, and Mr Sienot knows that about the reinforcement. People are afraid that it will not continue once the gas tap is closed. They are in uncertainty about the settlement of damages. They are in uncertainty whether the gas tap can not be turned open again. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we took this step now? We know that laws can be changed. I still don't see what your problem with that is. You can beat yourself on the chest for that. You can have the amendment, too. It would be fantastic if we could manage that one piece of certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	I think I've been very clear. I do not need an amendment whose scope I cannot see at the moment. I'm not gonna put my name on that at all. I'm very clear about that. If Groninger needs one thing, it's honesty. Honesty commands me at the moment to say that we depend on the gas of Groningen, natural gas, in many ways, and that we are cutting that dependence very hard during this period of office. We're turning off the gas tap. We do not need any compliments for that, because, as you rightly say, there is still a great deal to be done for the Groningen people to secure their homes. But I am also saying that it is already quite a step forward at the moment that we are going to let these nine customers consume less 3 billion cubic tons of gas. That is going to help us bring the gas extraction to zero as soon as possible, which is desirable in 2022. I ask the Minister to give me the assurance that this will actually work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	Just in addition to that. Mr Sienot says that he does not want to be legally committed to the fact that the extraction of gas must actually be terminated by 2022, because he cannot see the consequences of this. I find that a strange argument, because D66 has no problem with, for example, laying down a CO reduction target for 2050 by law in the Climate Act. We must have reduced 95% CO by 2050. Now, if there's something unseen, then it's 2050, and above all all all the misery that comes from capturing that goal. So why not lay down by law that the extraction of gas in 2022 must really be finished? How is that consistent with your climate madness, which you are legally laying down for 2050?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	Honestly, I see some difference between that. You're talking about two years or 30 years. That is my answer right away. It's quite a difference to get things done. I had also signed Mrs Beckerman's amendment if it were to be a period of 30 years. Then you really talk about something else. We are talking about a major step that must be taken in the short term. I challenge the Minister to give the guarantees, as far as possible, to make that happen. So far, he's done it all the time. I expect this to happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. Now is the time for the CDA spokesperson, Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr. Chairman. The impact of the earthquakes caused by the gas extraction in Groningen is enormous. That is why the cabinet announced measures to reduce the extraction of the Groningen gas when it took office. These are necessary for the safety of Groningen. One of the measures is to reduce demand for the low-caloric Groninger gas. As a result, extraction can be further reduced gradually. And that is essential for the safety of the Groningen people. In the meantime we are two and a half years further and the cabinet, partly due to the earthquakes in Zeerijp in 2018 and in Westerwijtwerd in 2019, decided to stop winning gas from the Groningenveld as soon as possible. The sooner, the better, possibly already in 2022. Gasunie Transport Services has questioned this law. But according to the CDA, we cannot separate this bill from the overall package of measures to bring gas extraction from the Groningen field to zero as soon as possible. If it all works out 100%, the extraction from the Groningen field can return to zero earlier. But we have seen in Groningen more often that we are rather disappointed than unhappy and that there are often unforeseen setbacks. For even though this winter was soft, it has not been said that we will not have more severe winters in the coming years, which will inevitably mean that we will have to reduce more gas. Then the question arises as to whether we can keep our promise for a safer Groningen. It is precisely because of the overall package of measures that gas extraction in Groningen is expected to be virtually zero in an average year from mid 2022 onwards. Then I hope we can finally close the Groningen field by 2026. Mr. Chairman. It has been clear for many years that companies can contribute to this as customers. Eventually, in 2018, the Minister indicated that the nine largest consumers of low-caloric gas until 2022 serve to convert their installations in a period of four years, either to high-caloric gas or to a sustainable alternative to the Groninger natural gas. Since the Minister's first announcement in January 2019, both individually and through the association VEMW, they have made it clear that they are prepared to contribute, where necessary and possible, to the solution of a societal problem surrounding the extraction of the Groninger gas. For this we are grateful to these companies as a society. In the meantime, we see that time flies and that there is less than three years left to hatch in the gas year of October 2022. At that time, companies must therefore seek an alternative to low-caloric gas. They need to make that alternative concrete, work out, plan in their investment and maintenance cycles and fit into business operations. That is a huge task. In doing so, network operator GTS is also a determining party and companies take into account higher costs for the conversion of gas installations, as an increasing time pressure will have to deviate from already planned investment and maintenance cycles. Headquarters, often located abroad, must agree to investment plans. This leads to the question of whether there is a proper compensation scheme. We ask the Minister what the reactions of the companies are and whether there is agreement with these nine companies. Does the ban on the nine largest customers of low-caloric gas lead to zero in 2022? Is it all feasible? Are all companies off the low-caloric gas on 1 October 2022? And to what extent can the PAS problem still delay? There is an agreement, it seems, with all nine companies on compensation for those costs. If that is not the case, when does the Minister expect to have an agreement on this? Is there also the risk of a long-term legal battle between one or more companies and the government? Mr Kops has already asked for this. What consequences does this have for the entry into force of this bill? Mr. Chairman. These companies are important to our economy. We greatly appreciate them and see the many challenges they face. That is why I am asking the Minister whether there are any further possibilities for meeting the companies, without undermining the essence of the bill and thereby jeopardising the safety of the Groningen people. That is also what I am asking in relation to the amendment tabled by the SGP. Not only the nine largest customers of low-caloric gas can contribute to the reduction in demand for Groninger gas, but low-caloric gas is also transported to Germany, Belgium and France, among others. Mr Kops mentioned that as well. I have tabled a motion for a resolution which has been adopted, namely motion 33529, No. 674, to inform the Chamber every six months about concrete steps and reduction of demand for Groninger gas from abroad. I would like to ask the Minister how cooperation with neighbouring countries is going about this. Are we on track with the conversion of low-to high-caloric gas and/or other sustainability measures to reduce the demand for the Groninger gas? In addition to those customers, the companies, there are also the foreign customers. Finally, the safety of the Groningers is at the forefront of the CDA. We have had many debates, including on other aspects of that security for the Groningen people, namely their homes, how it is all being repaired, the damage that people have, how it is being strengthened. Because even though we're going to do the gas extraction down, that doesn't mean that at once all earthquakes stop immediately. We therefore also need to end this gas extraction in Groningen as soon as possible, because the chance of all these earthquakes is reduced by reversing that gas extraction. Various measures are needed for this. This bill is one of them, and it contributes in three ways to stopping gas extraction from the Groningenveld. By removing 3 billion cubic metres of low-caloric gas from the market, the need to maintain the Groningen field as back-up decreases, allowing the gas field to close earlier. The conversion contributes to the stability and robustness of the gas system and thus also to the security of supply of natural gas, because we will be less dependent on nitrogen mixing and storage. This proposal produces half a billion cubic metres less Groninger gas production in the best scenario. We must rightly take into account setbacks. That is why our group agrees with this proposal, provided that compensation for businesses is properly arranged. We look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I call Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few years ago it was considered impossible: the gas crane in Groningen is now really closing within a few years. The argument, especially among previous cabinets, was always the security of supply. It always took the judge to say: the gas crane really needs to close further; a little bit further. The coalition agreement states that, where possible, we are going to reduce further and also continue to look for measures to ensure that this is done. It is thanks to this Minister that we are now going down with great strides and even faster. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is also in line with the measures needed to achieve this. The need for the legislative proposal is unabated. The nine largest consumers are switched off from the Groningen low-caloric gas and there will be a consumption platform for other customers. Partly because of this, the perspective is the closure of the Groningenveld. It is also important to speed up the implementation of this law. I do have a few more questions. First of all, on the issue of sustainability. Because of Groningen's urgency, my group understands that it is primarily aimed at reducing the demand for low-caloric gas and that it is only in the second place that we look at the sustainability of factory processes. Actually, that's a shame. I ask whether these two processes cannot be put together. In addition to the problems in Groningen, we also have a large climate forecast. Is there no risk that investments in conversion will now discourage manufacturers from re-investing in sustainable solutions in the short term? In plain Dutch: can we not do well at once and instead of switching to high-caloric gas companies seduce and encourage us to switch to electrification, for example? Can sustainable processes, e.g. electrification, not be made affordable in another way and applicable in the short term? Can these customers quickly rely on the instruments currently being developed under the Climate Agreement? I also ask this because the roll-out of wind at sea must go hand in hand with the electrification of industry. Then I come to the issue of exemption. The bill provides for the possibility of using more than 100 million cubic metres of low-caloric gas. According to the Minister, it is one party and it is obvious that the demand for Groningen gas is decreasing rather than increasing. Can the Minister back this up again? It is not for nothing that this ceiling is also included in the law. How is it prevented that other industrial complexes will also benefit from the exemption and that the demand for Groningen gas will unintentionally increase again in certain places? Mr. Chairman. I told you, this law is one of the many steps needed to disconnect us from the Groningen gas. I am also thinking of the realisation of a nitrogen factory and the conversion abroad. There is therefore a broader package of measures, and it is logical to look at them together. We must continue to look critically at whether all measures are contributing sufficiently and according to plan to reduce the demand for Groninger gas. How does the Minister monitor this, both for this bill and for the other measures? Are we still on schedule? How are the Minister's talks with other countries on the phasing out of low-caloric gas? Then the energy bill. Getting rid of the low-caloric gas is no small task and there are questions about the costs. Gasunie Transport Services warns that people may notice this in their energy bill. Can the Minister also take care of this today? We will see more often in the future that parts of the gas network will be disconnected. I actually liked Mr Moorlag's question: let it not be the case that the last consumer also pays all the costs. How does the Minister intend to anticipate and prevent this? Mr. Chairman. In the energy transition, it is inevitable that the industrial playing field will change. Some sectors will shrink where others grow. I think, for example, that the Netherlands has a lot to offer when it comes to hydrogen. This has already been referred to by others. It is important, however, that all the opportunities offered by new technologies in terms of growth and jobs should be brought to those regions where it is now possible to take action. What is the Minister doing to ensure this? Are the possible effects of this law on employment identified and included in any investment funds for these regions? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This law gives examples of trade-offs that the Chamber will have to make more and more often, especially with regard to the challenges of closing the Groningen gas field, but in the breadth of the energy transition we are facing. The cabinet believes that this bill is justified, proportionate and effective. I share that conclusion. I will leave no secret: I will present this bill with a positive opinion to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mrs Dik-Faber. I can now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr. Chairman. We agree with the Minister's commitment to reducing the extraction of the Groningen gas. It is simply necessary to tackle the problem of earthquakes in Groningen. However, the SGP questions the present ban. Because most large customers use the gas as fuel. Then the conversion costs are relatively limited because, if I understand correctly, the biggest investments are made at the gate and end up on the Gasunie sign. But at least one customer uses the nitrogen component of the gas as the raw material. This conversion would cost a few tens of millions of euros if the customer wanted to make this changeover. Investments to be made behind the gate. Should you necessarily remove that last customer from the low-caloric gas to ensure security of supply and stop at the Groninger gas extraction? The Council of State is also asking this question. GTS had previously indicated that to maintain the security of supply, you do not really need the ban for the largest customer. The ban could be reviewed again. Then Gasterra released a robustness analysis, including different temperature scenarios. If I read it correctly, the removal of this ban would not cause problems, especially if the said company were excluded. A vulnerable link is the Zuidbroek nitrogen factory, whose construction started this week. If that construction slows down, it will temporarily have a negative impact on the security of supply. When it comes to the delay of Zuidbroek or other extreme situations, it is perfectly possible to overcome this by means of further agreements or conditions in the event of a possible exception to the ban. Then the company has to and can temporarily take back gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	I see Mr. Van der Lee standing by the microphone. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	I had a question with a previous passage in Mr Stoffer's speech. The questions are, of course, legitimate in themselves and I am looking forward to the answer. But I'm also curious to know where the SGP is. Look, there are a lot of people who have been playing roles in the gas building with a lot of expertise for many decades and have given advice. But we must also recognise that reality was often different. Again, there are many uncertainties about the date when we reach zero when it comes to gas extraction. Should I interpret Mr Stoffer's questions in such a way that the SGP finds: we like to take a greater risk and we do not support this law in this form?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	No, I think that's a quick conclusion. You are asking whether or not we support the law. I have just indicated that I think the Minister's commitment is excellent. I do not intend to vote against the law either, but I do propose to improve the law slightly. I'll just grab a few more things by the head. We are, of course, talking about large companies, and behind them there is also employment. We are afraid that part of it, for example, is leaking away elsewhere, and that you will also have effects on the climate that you can wonder about whether it is good for the climate around the world. But the conclusion that we would vote against this law is far too soon. That is also why we have this debate. Isn't that right? I am always in a debate to exchange arguments. And then it can go either way for me. But I didn't come here to think, "I'm voting against the law next week." Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	But you never know what's gonna happen anymore, of course. Okay, Mr. Chairman. I have a second comment. When using high-caloric gas as a fuel, you have an efficiency advantage, because there is more carbon in a cubic meter of gas. But when using high-caloric gas as a raw material, you have a disadvantage: less nitrogen can be extracted per cubic meter of gas. That's pretty logical, too, of course. That would bring with it a few kilotons of extra CO emissions. If it isn't here, because raw materials are flown in from abroad, then it is where those raw materials come from. That's exactly what I don't think we want. The third point I would like to make is that for these large customers the international playing field plays an important role. Location in the Netherlands and investment in the Dutch production sites are certainly not self-evident. In a company like Yara in Terneuzen, one of those large customers, it is important, among other things, for the Zeeland economy, that it stays there. And I think we also have a promise to make in Zeeland. Needless to say, therefore, to bully these companies would be unwise. If you're not careful, that's the way it's gonna happen. Considering everything, I have tabled an amendment to exempt the single company that uses low-caloric gas not as fuel but as raw material from the proposed ban. I have added the possibility to ensure, through further conditions, that when the security of supply is at stake, the reduction of gas is temporarily reduced. I feel the question coming: there is, of course, a compensation scheme. Yes, it may be sufficient for the changeover itself, but the compensation for the additional annual costs of a few million euros is limited to a period of three years. Anyway, I'd rather spend that money on more sustainable projects. Mr. Chairman. I therefore hope that the Minister will be constructive in ensuring that no one will end up in the cold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	There is a question from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	I have some sympathy for what Mr Stoffer brings in here. It sounds very good: helping companies and taking care of them. But it is also true that the 9 companies are 161 other companies, we want to make the same impact. So if we take out one of those nine already, there are a lot of companies on the other side that we will have to rebuild to make the same impact. That will make the cost of society much higher. Does Mr Stoffer see that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	I am, of course, talking very specifically about low-caloric gas, not as fuel, but as raw material. It could be. What Mr Sienot says could be done this way. So I have also indicated that I am making a proposal here. I am tabling an amendment and I would also like to hear what is in it in this debate. It may also be that we have to deal with it in a different way, but I see the need for employment in these companies. It's just a single company. Maybe there's two of them. As far as I know, it's one right now, but there may be one more. You may eventually come to the conclusion that there are high costs and so on, but in the coming years I do wonder. But I am very curious to see how the Minister will respond to my amendment. As far as I'm concerned... 'Open the world' is not something I would like to say, because those are very optimistic terms. But I am in favour of any constructive proposal, which may also be different from my amendment. I submit this because I am thinking at the moment: that is the best option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	That sounds very promising. Natural gas from the ground either as a raw material or as a source of energy: in both cases it has to be removed from the ground first, and that is the whole point here. I am very curious with Mr Stoffer to see what other ways there are to help this important employer in Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	You were done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD has the floor in this first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 29 March 2018, the cabinet decided to permanently terminate the gas extraction from the Groningenveld. That is more than anyone could have hoped for or dared to dream of at the beginning of this cabinet period. This does justice to the safety interests of all Groningers. As far as we're concerned, that security of the Groningen people must be paramount. This bill is one of the steps to make this happen. We need to do the best we can to get the gas extraction to zero as soon as possible and then close the Groningen field. Measures that contribute to this need to be taken swiftly and this law contributes to this. The Act provides that the largest nine customers no longer use low-caloric gas as of 1 October 2022 and that the remaining large consumers receive a consumption cap of 100 million cubic cubic metres of low-caloric gas. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that the bill regulates an effective and efficient reduction in demand for low-caloric gas. It is noteworthy that Gasunie Transport Services initially indicated that the added value of the bill is limited. This is because by the time the ban enters into force in October 2022, there is probably almost no gas pumping up in Groningen. Can the Minister go into this in detail again? The explanatory statement states that the legislative proposal does not only refer to the reduction of the extraction volume, which, in my view, is the actual objective, but also to a contribution to the reduction of capacity and the maintenance of a robust gas system. All nine major customers are expected to switch to high-caloric gas. How does this contribute to capacity reduction and the maintenance of a robust gas system? To what extent will it be considered whether the nine large customers do not switch to high-caloric gas but bet their time, energy and money on the transition to a more sustainable alternative in relation to the Climate Agreement? To what extent does this law in some respects lead to an opposite development in terms of CO emissions, as claimed by a number of parties? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the safety of the Groningers, the VVD also considers the security of supply to be important. Households must not be in the cold. This bill is, of course, about large customers, but in some cases it also provides heat to small customers, to households. The VVD welcomes the fact that, through a letter of amendment, the Minister introduced a correction option for the consumption ceiling of 100 million cubic metres. In this way, the security of supply can be better met. But how does the Minister monitor whether the large customers are ready to ban the use of low-caloric gas and the consumption ceiling in time for October 2022? Are there sufficient guarantees that the security of supply will not be compromised? The VVD asks the Minister to monitor the trajectory carefully to avoid risks and setbacks. How's he gonna do this? Is there sufficient back-up for the security of supply for small and large customers if there are unexpected setbacks in the conversion process? Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal provides for disadvantage compensation if customers suffer disproportionate damage as a result of the ban on low-caloric gas. What does the Minister mean by "improper" when it comes to damage? An amount of EUR 75 million is available for loss compensation. Has the Minister taken a good look and arranged for compensation not to be considered State aid? Gasunie Transport Services, a number of colleagues have already spoken about this subject, and it will be necessary to invest in order to ensure that the nine large customers can switch over in good time and get rid of the low-caloric gas. The cost of this is estimated at EUR 85 million and is, of course, reflected in the rates. The estimate is that it will produce 0.5% higher rates. Where are these tariff increases going to end up? Will they only reach businesses or also SMEs and consumers? As a VVD, we would find that undesirable. For the disadvantage compensation, the policy rule would be completed at the beginning of 2020. Is that the case now? Does the policy rule provide sufficient clarity for companies? Is this workable, too? In the letter of amendment, the Minister announced that he would also like to have the possibility of a ministerial regime to lay down procedural rules for the application for loss compensation. What exactly is the purpose of this? Is he actually gonna do that? If so, when will it be ready? Mr. Chairman. A number of colleagues have already mentioned the possibilities for exemption. The bill has two grounds for exemption. The first is delay due to circumstances not attributable to the customer or which could not reasonably have been foreseen or prevented by him. The second is the situation in which a customer moves to a source of energy other than high-caloric gas, for example a sustainable source. The Minister indicated, in response to questions from the VVD, that he did not want to draw up criteria for this. We regret that, because the question now remains as to when such an exemption can be used. If Gasunie Transport Services does not have the connection for high-caloric gas ready in time, does that include? If one of the nine customers is delayed by appeal or objection procedures, is that included? How will the exemption be dealt with if a maintenance stop is scheduled shortly after October 2022, which would be a natural time to pass? Is there any possibility of an exemption for this? Mr. Chairman. Originally, this bill would enter into force on 1 January 2020. At least that won't work anymore. The conversion before 1 October 2022 was also based on this. Can GTS and its customers be ready in time for October 2022? Is the possibility of exemption also intended for this purpose? What are the consequences for the Groningenveld if it doesn't all work out before October 2022? How does the Minister monitor that? A few colleagues have just indicated that low-caloric gas is sometimes used not only as fuel but also as raw material by companies. What are the consequences of the ban on these companies? How does the Minister view a possible exception in the law for this particular element? I believe that the SGP has already tabled an amendment on this. What would be the consequences of this, in particular for the phasing out of the Groningenveld? Why is it not agreed that this part can or should be switched to pseudo-Gronings gas? Finally, Mr President. We want to go to zero as soon as possible when it comes to the Groningen Field because of the safety of the Groningers and to limit the earthquakes as much as possible. Finally, the VVD would like to know the state of play of all other measures to bring gas extraction in Groningen to zero. On Monday he paid a visit to Zuidbroek, where the construction of a nitrogen factory was started. We are curious to see what the state of play of all measures is and whether they are on track. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:50 p.m. Then we'll listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also for the support that has already been expressed in advance for this legislative proposal. But this is more than just a technical measure to accelerate the extraction of gas in Groningen. Not only the cabinet, but The Hague, as you can see from there, the government and everything that is going on around here, has a great task in restoring confidence. That certainly doesn't happen overnight. If confidence is to grow, we must be very careful and do our utmost to achieve it. As far as I am concerned, the cornerstone of this is that we are seriously trying to remove the cause of the earthquakes by reducing the extraction of gas to zero. Mr Moorlag just expressed his appreciation of this cabinet decision. He said, "It's nice to be able to go even faster to zero, faster than the coalition chord said. But in the coalition agreement, there was just 21.6 billion cubs. In that we just continued to win and it didn't go to zero at all. We have done so because we are convinced that this is necessary in order to put the problem in Groningen behind us in the long term. That is why it is also important that we support the date potentially fixed, March 2022, the closure of the Groningenveld in an average year, as credible as possible with measures. That's important here. That is why we really need to reduce risks that we can reasonably limit. This is really about restoring confidence in Groningen. Mrs de Vries asks: explain again why this is so, because GTS wonders whether it is necessary. If everything goes well, if everything we have planned goes well at once, if we have an average year, if no one gets up that suddenly needs more, if it doesn't suddenly get very cold, if the buffer doesn't fail once a week or two weeks or three weeks, if the nitrogen plant is running when we want it to run, if it all goes well, then it's not necessary. But that's no way to deal with a risk. We need to do more to be credible to the people of Groningen that we are doing everything we can to make this happen. These are three simultaneous measures. As soon as this is a fact, we're gonna be lower. This brings us to zero and we are more sure of the delivery without being dependent on nitrogen mixing and storage. In short, that is the problem. Perhaps in 2026 we noticed that it was not necessary afterwards. But that is not unwise policy; that is wise policy. You have to keep something behind your back, because you never know. Not to the ridiculous, but in an appropriate way, as we are, in view of the problems involved here, it is appropriate to include risks in our deliberations. This means that companies must do something they could not have expected and which was even to a limited extent a risk of their own. That is a realistic disadvantage compensation scheme. I'll get to that later, or actually now. There too, there is a question of credibility. I'm not going to name company names, but someone said very charmingly "a Zeeland industry." This is not just about restoring confidence in Groningen; it is also about restoring confidence in Zeeland. If we are to take measures to eliminate Zeeland's employment, we must also be strong behind our ears. I don't want to make it into a competition between Groningen and Zeeland in any way. I do not want to take measures for Groningen with which I sacrifice the interests of Zeeland, nor the other way around. There is no choice. Sophie's Choice doesn't play here. This means that we must choose appropriate compensation. We have a concession for that disadvantage compensation. We've reserved resources for that. We've been trying to come up with a fair and realistic disadvantage compensation. This is indeed the case now that I am talking to Mr Van der Lee, that something is expected of companies themselves. There's a risk of your own. That is very much less than in some other cases, because this was a risk that you could not reasonably have considered. What is currently not being reimbursed are operational costs after three years. I am going to say more about this later, because a few clear questions have been asked about it. Gold cranes are not promised either and their own risk is not reimbursed either. That's a risk of your own, too. There's a formula in there that I think is reasonable. The question is, is that enough? There are two companies, but one company in particular has occurred in the debate. That indeed uses a lot of gas because it also uses it as a raw material. It is also that company that can still choose between different forms of another business. This may be a conversion or a more running variant along the purchase, but in some of these variants the costs also go on for longer than those three years. I have been asked whether it is possible to do something more in view of this problem. In doing so, we must adhere strictly to the rules on state aid, because if something goes through endlessly, something becomes state aid at some point. What is a responsible period for this to go through? It's been up to three years. Still justified would be a maximum of five years; that could be possible. Let me put that to this Chamber, knowing that there is still a second term. Five years could still be considered from the point of view of state aid. This would specifically, in particular, constitute an advantage for this company, a wider disadvantage compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	I had asked a question about this, of course also with this company in mind but also wider, also for other companies where this could possibly play. Because we're asking a lot of nine companies. I welcome this commitment, but perhaps I will make it in a motion, so that we all know for sure that this is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mrs Mulder asked very clearly about this. She looked at me hard at the same time. What I said now was not a commitment but an assessment. But I intend to listen very carefully to this Chamber and I look forward to its motion. If there is a time limit acceptable from a State aid point of view, I have already expressed my sympathy for this. But let's check it out. Maybe others think differently and I am making a commitment that makes everyone suddenly unhappy, except for Mrs Mulder, and myself, by the way. Mr Moorlag asks whether it was not actually an entrepreneurial risk at all. The answer is therefore: to a very limited extent. So that's at that own risk. There's still a risk of procedures. In general, with a few express wishes, there has been a degree of goodwill, both on the need for conversion and on the disadvantage compensation scheme. If we were to extend it further, I think the satisfaction will only increase. But of course there is always a risk of procedures. Someone is always free to go to a judge and say, "I'm misshared and I'm entitled to more." Then it is important, for example, for a very large user who also uses it for raw materials, to take a good look at that sustainability, but also to see if this conversion is really necessary. There are also variants for this particular company that might even reduce CO emissions on Dutch territory, which would also not cost direct employment and which might be possible at lower costs. But that's ultimately up to that company itself. This is the short term, but in the long term, of course, we want every company in its industrial cluster to be sustainable. That is why it is important to keep an eye on the whole leap that we have to make with the hydrogen economy. All infrastructure needs to be put in place for that. There's a whole task force infrastructure at work right now. I believe that Mr Sienot asked me how we see the transition of industry as a whole and these nine in particular. I shall go into that in a moment, because I intend to pass on the remaining questions from each of the spokesmen. This question was very welcome to me. Disadvantage compensation is therefore necessary. One company specifically indicated that it still had a certain capacity to see it. I've just made a first move for that, but I think Mrs. Mulder's gonna shoot him with a motion. Breder has been asked the question of sustainability. Yeah, that was my big hope. I thought, if there are funds available for the conversion, let us make sure that this conversion is a sustainable one as much as possible. That was, although perhaps not frivolous, somewhat optimistic. Look, the sustainability in industry is not about sun PV on the roof or about things that can be realized quite quickly. The sustainability in industry is about a very thorough renovation. It is about the complete redesign of chemical processes and the complete redesign of steel processes and so on. Such a renovation should have been in progress by now to be ready in time. We've got a visual on the nitrogen plant. It'll be ready in exactly two years. That's two years of construction time. But in a complex industrial or chemical process, that can be even more. So simply expecting us to make an industry more sustainable in the short term, to electrify it, to throw a hydrogen economy at it, is too optimistic. I expect a lot of optimism in life, but you also have to come back to it in time. That doesn't mean these companies are off the hook. It doesn't mean they have to invest now, which makes it easier to stay in the old regime. Not that. They are all bound by the agreements in the Climate Agreement. I am going to tell you, in the context of Mr Sienot's question, which routes we are all going to go through in order to allow all those industries to go through this transition. But that's largely unrelated to this. All kinds of options have been examined with each of those nine and a whole team of the department has been by, but we still owe this sustainability. It is going to have a lot of feet in the earth, and I will be happy to answer Mr Sienot's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	If I may give you a question, procedurally, I am very curious to know which no-regret steps can be taken. There are always steps you won't regret and with which you hit two birds with one stone, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	Look, no-regret steps should just be in it, if they're no regret, but this is actually about the choice between a huge conversion of the whole process, where total raw materials have to be replaced and the equipment probably has to look very different in many cases, versus someone who says: well, I had low-caloric burners and I have to put high-caloric burners in it now. That's a different order size. It means that there haven't been so many simple quick wins and low-hanging fruit here. It means it's still gonna happen, but it's not just a little thing that takes you over the back of a switch to another fuel. Mrs Dik-Faber asked for exemptions, as did Mr Kops, Mr Van der Lee and Mrs De Vries. How's the score? We just know with certainty that, in this case because of the nitrogen problem, it is not possible to reach October 2022. That's a matter of force majeure. Since conversion takes place in the summer, it will be a season later. There are four other companies where the same is not excluded, but GTS is still working with these companies to speed up as much as possible. It's not clear to each of those companies if they're gonna make it. So there are still four companies in the danger zone. That will be monitored. If they didn't make it, it's a real force majeure situation. There's no malice, no delay or I know. I have also spoken to the GTS, the organisation that is working on this, including the person who is ultimately responsible for this. He sees that there is good cooperation, but also that it is still quite a tour to do so in the short term. But I'll keep the Chamber informed of progress as soon as I know more. Mr Van der Lee raises another question. Let us stretch this exemption: what would the Minister think if a company could switch to renewable energy within three to four years? Is there an exemption? Well, if you want something settled in two years' time, then four is a long way. Then I'm also raising risks for Groningen. But it is true that there are sustainability pathways that are conceivable that are still a kind of mimicry. In quite a few cases, part of the consumption is not yet gone, but a whole step has been taken. If you do not grant a certain exemption, there will be no sustainability. Well, those are typically the cases for which we would like to take this exemption. That was also discussed with all companies. So that would have been a imaginable one. The cost. An important point. I have heard Mr Sienot and Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs De Vries. She's heading for the interrupting microphone now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mrs. De Vries is going to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	I think the Minister's going to another subject. I had specifically asked whether there were any possible combinations if, for example, a factory had to be shut down for maintenance in the first place. I am also very curious about the consequences for the closure of the Groningen Field if a great deal of this exemption is to be used in relation to the problem of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	To start with this last question: the less we can react in time, of course, the risk is slightly higher that gas will still have to be extracted from March 2022. I can imagine that if this operation is disappointing and the setbacks pile up afterwards, there's something about the buffer, it's very cold, just call it a little bit more likely to have to use the Groningen field for a short time. That's why we're trying as fast as we can. That's why we're trying to get as many companies within that schedule as possible. Once again, we cannot do that for one, and we still have to work hard on four. Her first question about the stop: I can't... That also depends a little on the circumstances. Look, it's bespoke after all. If, suddenly, three quarters of the costs would be in an early stop, then I can imagine that also given the fact that disadvantage compensation has to be paid, it might be a reason to say that an exemption can be used. But that really has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. That is also a bit the reason why it has been complicated to draw up general criteria for this. Those companies are so different. There are energy companies, production companies, chemistry; there are a lot of things. And then it was not possible to draw up an appropriate uniform set of criteria for this. What are the costs of this? Look, because of GTS, there are costs in terms of disadvantage compensation. GTS also expects to have to make investments on its own. They are then socialized. It's a regulation thing. However, it is noteworthy that the costs resulting from the additional investments by the GTS of the conversion project are therefore lower than the costs that we would otherwise have had to incur in order to produce more low-caloric gas. So in the end, this is a saving on the situation that you need to turn the nitrogen plant on harder. It does mean extra costs. I believe that Mrs De Vries mentioned that the GTS rates for companies connected to that GTS network are increasing by 0.5%. Regional gas transmission networks on which consumers sit also use the GTS network for their food. This means that part of the network costs, i.e. only the GTS part that consumers use, will increase by 0.5%. But that part is such a small part of the energy bill. I just looked an expert in the eye very deeply. With a lot of precision, he couldn't say, but he thought things had to turn out weird if the costs per household per year were higher than €1. But I was also told that it is not certain that this will be passed on at all. So it may well be that the consumer is not aware of this at all. Above all, it means a cost increase for the GTS network, but that is the business network. I shall do the amendments first and then I shall go through the remaining questions from the various Members of this Chamber. I shall begin with the amendment tabled by Mr Stoffer. I really do not think that the amendment is enough to fulfil the obligation to close the Groningen field with great certainty. I think it makes me a little too much of a choice between Groningen and Zeeland. My proposal is to solve it along the line of disadvantage compensation. That is also an option, a possibility, which the company itself once mentioned somewhere. I would, by the way, respectfully like this amendment... I will always appreciate the concerns about individual companies. We must be constantly concerned, for each region, about the employment effects. So I appreciate the initiative, but I do not recommend it in this form. My suggestion is to solve it by another route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for his approach to the amendment. I believe that in my first term, including in the interruption that has been made, I have shown that it is not a choice on the one hand or on the other hand. It is my job to guarantee employment. The Minister has just given a hand to Mrs Mulder, for example by proposing to extend the compensation period. The Minister therefore expects employment and investment in the Netherlands... Let that also be in Zeeland, because I think it plays specifically there. Does he expect us not to let our economy leak out of the country? That is where my concern lies, namely that the employment and the economic position of the Netherlands are leaking out. I wonder whether the Minister has any idea of this and whether he thinks that we have made sure of this with those five years of compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	I find not only the maximum for five years, but also the appropriate one. But let me also honor the following. I have felt a little bit in the dock here several times when I also mentioned the level playing field in the climate debate. For I believe that we will only support this transition if we ensure that the jobs remain here, that people have a normal income and are not unnecessarily chased at cost. Otherwise it will soon be over here with the best brittle support. I therefore appreciate the attention paid to Mr Stoffer's playing field. Everyone, by the way, but now in particular Mr Stoffer's. If we give an appropriate disadvantage compensation, we will largely remove the disadvantage for the company. Then we'll have to do the same at the transition. That's another chapter that's not going to happen right now. That's not this law. But we must also ensure that it becomes bearable for companies to go through the transition and become attractive to have gone through it in the end. We have to take care of that. Thank you. I come to Mrs Beckerman's amendment. That's a bit of a cocksucker, too. Originally, this cabinet began to listen to her plea to go mainly to 12, but it went to 0. Then we had the law "no more than necessary." Gas extraction would be stopped by 2030. Then she wanted a legal obligation to end it by 2030. Now it's March 2022 and she wants to end it by 2022. I think history shows there's no need for that. There is no intention to continue to use unnecessary gas in 2022. But it may be that everything falls down at the same time. Then we need a backup, because it is also extremely disruptive to be out of energy supply in this country when it comes to gas. I think the odds that we need that are very low. All my efforts are aimed at not letting this happen. But there's no profit from legal security. This cabinet is intrinsically motivated to shut it down, as soon as possible, even before 1 October 2022. However, in the specific case that everything falls down at the same time, this legal guarantee could bring us real regret as hair on the head. That's why I advise against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	But you don't have to do that, do you? Such a legal anchoring gives more certainty than it is now. Many Groningen people have completely lost faith in politics. Their trust has been violated and that is very difficult to regain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u86	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u87	This legal anchoring helps. Wouldn't that give the Secretary of State Groningen a piece of security again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u88	But if there is still a small chance that we still need the Groningenveld for a limited part, even if it is only a week, then a legal limitation soon leads to social disruption. It's a long shot, but we shouldn't rule it out. You can, of course, include debinding factors in a bill, in which you say: in an emergency, this or that can still be done. But I think that's a wash nose. It's not fair either. Then you say, "We have a legal bond unless we really need it." Yeah, it was. So let's keep it honest. We're fully committed. I'm going to say something about progress later. I sent a letter on this in February. It's on schedule. The cabinet is checked on all fronts, with all the clarity about how everything is going. As soon as there are false arguments to postpone it, Mrs Beckerman will strongly appeal to me: no more chances of escape. So we're doing everything we can. Then this legal guarantee has no added value, but it can give us a lot of grey hair with the small chance that everything goes wrong. Well, here's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u89	I'm afraid I'm not getting very far. I hope I can get on with the room. The Minister celebrates a lot of parties to reduce gas extraction...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u90	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u91	Well, I wanted to compliment you, but now the Minister is shaking his head again. I have often said that this is a historic decision, but it has been hard fought for in Groningen. I've been in court myself. You feel very small, if you have to ask the Council of State: can you please return the gas extraction, because our security is not guaranteed? This could also be a historical mark. We're changing three laws today, I think. So you can always change the law again. It would be a very nice historical mark to say now: we give that legal anchor absolutely. That we can change laws is true. We do that a lot here. It is a kind of end marker of a very long period of very much pain for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u92	It is unusual to turn it into a dialogue, but I would like to ask Mrs Beckerman a question. Suppose we switch places, Mrs Beckerman stands where I stand now, she is responsible for security of supply and it is at the end of September 2022; there are some things that have fallen over, she could not do anything about it, but it did happen and we need a bcm extra, but there is a legal limitation, namely the Beckerman amendment. What does Mrs. Beckerman do? Explain to the country that turning on the heat isn't in today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u93	This is exactly the kind of discussion that Groningers had to have had for years. Every time Groningers fought for a reduction in gas extraction, the cabinet shielded them with the reasoning: then there are elderly people in Limburg in the cold. That is a very unfair and unequal fight. Fortunately, we are no longer at that point; we are now at the point where the cabinet knows that it could be done faster. It couldn't be done very often. Every time it was said that the extraction could be reduced, it was said: no, it can't be. Now we are finally on the point that we are not constantly hearing: it cannot, it cannot, it cannot. I'm just asking the Minister to mark that point. Yeah, we all know we could get to that point. We can then have a debate on this at that time. I have just referred to it: we are amending three laws today. In doing so, we can consider: what is the most important? That could indeed be that we are asking certain large consumers to switch off a week. There could be a debate on that. But we'll do everything we can... That's the promise the Minister makes a lot of times. We often see media reports that it can be done even faster. This would be a nice marker. Let us hope that we will never have to have that debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u94	The fact that we could do it faster than ever thought has now been proven. I think I'm unsuspected that I'm not suspected of trying to block that, but I just have the side of security of supply to serve. It is up to me to ensure that this never happens, but in the event that my judgment is "dissuaded" unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u95	I can follow the Minister's reasoning for a long time. Imagine getting a bomb-and-grenade scenario, as I sometimes call it. Then something shouldn't have been legally poured into concrete. On the other hand, however, the Minister says that a legal provision with an exception would only be symbolic. I do not share that view, because if you create a legal ban with an exception, a government has an obligation to state reasons and it is also subject to judicial review. Would that variant be acceptable to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u96	I only find it complicated to think now what would be a final exception for 2022. And, again, I don't see the added value either, because we made a commitment to Groningen. First it was 2030; then it became 2026; then it became 2022, and we are on schedule. I don't see the added value. I also think it's a little symbolic: we promise something with an exception. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u97	But the Minister's reasoning was that the material would have no meaning. I think the material has meaning, because then you make it testable. It can also be quite common. A major public interest is a fairly open standard, but that makes it legally testable. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u98	Everything I do is testable. Mr Moorlag is the living example of this, because he is always very strict with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u99	Before proceeding with your speech, Minister, I would like to ask you if you could give an opinion on Mr Stoffer's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u100	I didn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u101	You've already advised against that? Well, then we've taken note of that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u102	I would like to say to Mrs Beckerman that it is still in the planning to send the law on reinforcement for the summer recess to the House of Representatives. Let's address the questions about intangible damage, strengthening and so on in the AO that we have next week or the week after that. Then it will all be dealt with in detail, because the current legislative proposal does not see it as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u103	Everything has passed in this debate, from permafrost to Putin. But this law is indeed linked to strengthening. Research by the University of Groningen shows that many people are afraid that once that gas tap is closed, nothing will end up with that reinforcement. 15% of people with multiple damage and only 4% of people with one damage believe that they will be okay. So no matter how we turn it or turn it, this has a lot to do with this law. Much more than Putin and permafrost. So I'd still like to ask the Minister if he'll answer my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u104	I'm suggesting two things. I propose that we repeat the guarantees we have given in the AA that existing agreements will be respected. And then I suggest that from now on I do not answer the questions and about Putin and permafrost either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u105	In any case, I would like to ask whether the Minister would like to answer the question in this debate about the NAM in cassation about the intangible damage. I see a very direct link there. Groningers have immaterial damage. That's confirmed by the judge. Then the NAM appealed. Then that was confirmed by the judge. Now the NAM goes into cassation. And it's that same NAM, it's Shell and Exxon who get compensation from the State for not winning gas and getting compensation for not using gas. They get public money twice, and now they're going to fight the rights of the Groningen. Would the Minister at least indicate what he thinks about this and how this can be resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mrs Beckerman already has that solution in her pocket. I have said from the outset that we do not find court cases between large companies and households to deal with this public interest. Period! I think, and that's what we've arranged, that the government should take over this. There's going to be an Institute for Mining Damage in Groningen. This will start before the summer and will deal, among other things, with the intangible damage. That's gonna pay out in a public way. It'll be independent. That's not the one who caused the damage, it's someone else's judgment. That's the way it's supposed to be. I find and find it intricate that we end up in situations where individual Groningers face an enterprise. But it's everyone's right to go to court. I'm not gonna say anything about that. But I find the situation as it arises intricate. I've found that from the beginning. I think it should be public, and it'll be public. We're not gonna do that like this anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr Moorlag had asked good questions about this. He asked you to convey that concern of ours to those parties as well. Maybe you could report that you're gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u108	I would have liked to have answered that I think that Mr Moorlag has already brought that up with his own input. But I do not want to in any way, from the position I am in as a member of the government, to give the impression that the government has any idea of anyone who is using the right to go to court. I'm just saying that I don't like the situation as a whole, as it has been for years, and that we're going to do this audience. I am sure that Mr Moorlag's words will end up with those who are concerned. Then I come to Mr Moorlag. He says the gas extraction should have gone down sooner. Yeah, we should have. I've agreed to that on several occasions. I would point out that the previous government did not decide to bring gas extraction back to zero, while his party was in it. Mine, too. We all recognised too late that there was a need for a significant step here. Me too. The gas grid and what do you do with it? In the case of green gas, this gas network can be used unchanged for transport. That's what we want. Green gas will be part of the mix. For example, green gas could play a role in very old houses that are difficult to isolate. The gas grid is a huge boost there. It's already there and it's also suitable for hydrogen with some modifications. This concerns large gas networks, transport networks to industrial users, but hydrogen can also be increased with gas for households. The only way to get rid of that gas grid is if there's no perspective on reuse. That's the Environmental Management Act. The network operators and the ACM take into account the possibilities offered by the current gas network for all kinds of sustainable gases. That's all mapped out. It also depends on the heat plans of the municipalities. We are blessed with such a gas grid. Where other countries talk about the hydrogen economy while the pipes are not there yet, we talk about the hydrogen economy while the pipes are already there. That makes a difference. I shall come back to this later in the context of Mr Sienot's famous question. With these preliminary announcements, he will be disappointed with the answer, but I'm going to try anyway. Mr Kops: can we really not speed up the phasing-out abroad? That was possible and the phasing-out has also accelerated further. There have been conversations with foreign colleagues. It has nothing to do with what he calls "breaking up" contracts. It just has to do with physical circumstances. In Belgian houses there are this type of gas meters, this type of central heating boilers, this type of cooking appliances, and you can't just change that. It's physical limitations. It has nothing to do with contracts. If we did not keep to our contracts, that would be one thing, but then we will flatten a part of Belgium when it comes to cooking and heating. It's those physical limitations that need to be reduced. That's what our neighbors are doing. They're three importing countries. They're doing their best. With Germany in particular, it has been possible to speed up the phasing-out of large consumers in a variety of ways. That has caused a lot of trouble in the export of Groninger gas. I see that Mr Kops has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u109	I can see that, but Mr. Moorlag is also at the interrupting microphone. And I think that was about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u110	If the Minister is able to rewind for a while, then I remind him of my questions about what it will cost to preserve such a gas grid. Who's gonna pay for that? How are we going to distribute the maintenance costs of the gas network for a decreasing number of users? How are social costs and benefits made understandable? I have asked for an exploratory study to be carried out on this subject and to make this clear to the Chamber and, therefore, to the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u111	Then I must have even more insight into what the different municipalities are going to do with the different types of gases. It is reasonable for a gas network which is now being used for natural gas to switch equally when it comes to green gas. These are not major distribution or cost issues. When the gas grid is used, you just let the user pay in his new form for the same way you used to pay. In a single case, a gas network will become superfluous. Then I'm thinking of neighborhoods where pretty recently houses have been built. They can be electrically heated. A gas grid can then become redundant. Then you have to wonder what you're doing with the residual value. These are questions that play out, but let's first see how all these different neighbourhoods are heated and what kind of mix that produces and then determine the gas grid strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u112	I think we should look at that in good time. They're predicamental scenarios. Look, if 50% of individuals choose a source of heating other than natural gas and if industry moves to other energy sources, then the network costs will be very heavy on those remaining 50% natural gas users. And that percentage is likely to continue to decline. I think we should really look at that early. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u113	No one's against looking at it in time. But my definition of "timely" is the moment when we know more about the mix of heating techniques and therefore also about the types of gases that we still have to transport in the different gas networks. Then it may be that we have some sort of emptiness issue, as Mr Moorlag describes. It may also be that we have a normal transition in some parts and that we have to write off the gas grid completely on other parts. But that's what we're going to see when we have more knowledge of that. It won't take too long. I am in favour of doing so in good time. But let's face it, the Dutch houses must be off the gas by 2050. So it's not so urgent that we have to get all nervous about it. Let us gather the knowledge needed to carry out the analysis and then carry it out. But it's not about 2022, it's about 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u114	Then there is a question from Mr Kops, not Knops, but Kops. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u115	On the issue of low-caloric gas exports to Belgium, Germany and France. Are these countries doing enough to make the transition from low-caloric to high-caloric gas? Or do these countries think: well, those export contracts run until 2030, so we're taking it slow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u116	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u117	Then there is the second question. I have said it many times in debates: while in the Netherlands everyone has to get rid of the gas, people in countries like Belgium and Germany receive money if they take a gas connection. We can assume that the gas connections they are currently taking are for high-caloric gas and certainly not for low-caloric gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u118	No, no households are connected to low-caloric gas. I would once again like to commend the way in which our neighbouring countries see and cooperate. The talks with Germany have even resulted in significant reductions in exports to Germany. Parties came to us with proposals even before we approached them. They'd been mathing themselves. They said: The Netherlands has a problem and we are going to help. That's to be commended. That's how you get it from your neighbors. Are we putting the nitrogen plant in front of the rest of the world? No. At present, the ratio between domestic and foreign low-caloric demand is about fifty-fifty. In 2030, we still have a number of large consumers and industries on low-caloric gas, but the demand for low-caloric gas abroad will be zero. We then have nitrogen capacity purely for domestic demand. But for physical reasons, we are still attached to this gas export for a while. If it had not been for that physical reason, the renegotiation of contracts would have been very easy, because they would have had another source and they would have been able to switch to it. Then Mr Kops' question is whether this 3 bcm can't be with the current gas storage and current nitrogen. That is a bit along the lines of my reply to Mrs De Vries. If everything in the world goes well, it runs smoothly and we only have average winters, we come to an end. However, we need those 3 bcms to be sure. There's no other way to do that, because we've totally squeezed the system. That was also the assignment I gave myself at the end of March 2018. Could the nitrogen plant have been built before? Previous Cabinets, which I myself was in, have decided not to build them. After we decided to build it at the end of March, the preparations started in April. The procedures have gone through pretty quickly. I am proud of everyone who has contributed to this. Regional authorities have also made maximum efforts. That went great. It's on schedule. In my opinion, building earlier would have been very complicated. We must now make sure that the construction remains on schedule. Then gas extraction in the North Sea. The problem presented by Mr Kops is correct. I wrote a letter in 2018 about the small fields, which also raises this problem. I have announced that I would like to improve the investment deduction for small fields in the North Sea. This makes it more attractive to simply win gas that is still there, that can be safely extracted, that we still need for domestic demand and that is better than imports. There are still discussions with the European Commission on the extent to which you can do this within the regimes that exist. The intention is there and it is being worked hard. I answered Mr Van der Lee's Zeeland question and his three-to-four question, but he wasn't there. I invite him to find that in the Acts. Methane research is about the global extraction of natural gas and methane. It is declining in the Netherlands, but it is increasing worldwide. We have a covenant with the mining companies about reducing methane emissions. They all signed it. We think that's important and if it's okay, the Netherlands belongs to the best boys in the class. That is always a disadvantage for the PVV, but I think that is an advantage in this case. We are doing this very neatly and the industry has been very active in doing so. Four Members here have asked me about the state of play regarding the phasing-out of gas extraction. The short answer is that it's on schedule. Each of the components is also on schedule. The even shorter answer would have been to send a letter on this subject on 21 February. If there are more specific concerns, I can say that in a few months' time we will be doing another poll and I will let you know again before the summer. That seems orderly to me, and then we know it. If there is a need for a review of progress for the summer, I promise that I will send it. I see nodding. Then there is Mr Sienot's question about how we are going to tackle the sustainability of industry. He said "these nine in particular," but these nine do not distinguish themselves from the rest in that sense. I want to come up with some kind of industrial strategy soon. The way we want to remain attractive to industry is related to that transition. I see a huge opportunity in that. I've never made a secret of that and Mr. Sienot sees him too. If you seriously think about where you want to establish your sustainable industry in the coming decades, you have a certain ticking list in your pocket. You want this to be there, there's that and there's sister and everything. Maybe there's one location in the world where that comes together and that's the Netherlands. We're offering that. We must ensure that all these potential strengths of the Netherlands come together in such a way that we seduce those industries, not only to see that they need to be preserved, but also that they need strong cooperation and support. In addition, we must ensure that other sustainable industries come here. The stronger our clusters are, the more possibilities there are. The more cost carriers there are for a hydrogen economy, the more opportunities for heat exchange, the more opportunities for heat separation and so on. This means, first of all, that we need to make a firm commitment to hydrogen. We have good opportunities for that; we have a very windy sea. We need to be able to play that game properly. Who else has so many gas networks lying around than the Netherlands. We should be able to win the competition for the hydrogen economy. CCS is also needed in this transition. We do, just off the coast where the energy-intensive industry is. At present, we are the only country that also provides a small back-up for all investments, the SDE. We also have, yes, it's not necessarily just fun, a CO tax that forces companies to accelerate their sustainability. We have an infrastructure task force, which is part of the growth letter, which shows that all infrastructure must be ready in one way or another and that the market is not going to do so on its own. We have heat-capping possibilities here, like not on every place on Earth. And we can use the circular component by having the best hinterland connections in Europe and one of the best ports in the world. So how are we gonna do this? I am doing a piece on this subject in which I put on paper not only for this Chamber but also for the industry itself how we should move to achieve this potential benefit. This is the optimism I wanted to radiate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u119	What the Minister says here, of course, sounds like music to me. But I hear again: a new document. And in an earlier answer to questions from me, I read that a hydrogen vision will be drawn up. Now I hear the Minister talking about an industrial document containing a hydrogen component. That's all very important. But it's a bit like that with documents. And we're in a bit of a hurry; something has to be done. So I'm so curious what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u120	Look, there are all different parts. We have an infrastructure component, we have a specific hydrogen component. These are all kinds of visions, which this Chamber itself has asked for. But it's important that we tell them what needs to be done. And then it would be useful to write that down for once, even because we have big industries that want to know. What adventure are they on? Why do they have to stay in the Netherlands? Why is this the best place to make things more sustainable? What is expected of them? What isn't expected of them? It is important to entrust that to the paper once. It's not that nothing happens; plans are now being made in all these different clusters. So you need to know how many companies we are now in contact with where concrete hydrogen projects are being developed. Gasunie is just making solar energy right now. There are plans to build a 20 MW, then a 100 MW but eventually a 1,000 and then a 3,000 MW electrolyser. That scaling-up has to be done. Some of the storage facilities we have in the north will have to be used. That's what's happening now. That's being worked on right now, by people who exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u121	It's good that there are people working on these solutions. What we just saw at the previous transition, after the energy agreement, was that wind at sea took off at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u122	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u123	That got the wind under the wings. And that was because all kinds of cost reductions were achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u124	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u125	That has actually brought the whole energy transition into a next phase. Sorry to be brief, Mr. Chairman. Because at once there were affordable alternatives and they danced the horleep at the electricity table during the negotiations on the Climate Agreement. That was unthinkable five years ago. Now we have to achieve the same thing with industry. How are we going to do it and what is this Minister going to do in concrete terms over the next two years to enable these next cost reductions, so that we can continue to do so in a subsequent cabinet? I'm so excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u126	Well, then I think it might be useful, because this is a debate about switching nine large consumers, if I put that on paper once. What would Mr Sienot think of that? With all those attachments about hydrogen, heat, CCS, green gas and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u127	I just said there's a lot on paper. So if we can do this briefly, with action points or action lists, I'm very curious about it. It may well be an action list full of references to the beautiful documents that have already been written.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u128	Although not so much has been written about industry. But we're gonna see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u129	Well... The Climate Agreement does contain certain passages about protecting our industrial clusters and how to give them good opportunities for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u130	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u131	All the employees of these companies are also counting on serious attention to be paid to this. I think that's right. Mr. Chairman. We're getting a hydrogen route map, I hope in now and a month, maybe two months. I would appreciate it if the vision of industry was part of it. So not a loose document, but just hoppakee, that part of hydrogen in here. 'Cause it can't be that we're gonna discuss it separately again, can it? I hope for a promise from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u132	I thought I'd get you a little bundling. We are, of course, coming up with a proposal on what the CO levy should look like. There's a vision of green gas and a vision of hydrogen. I think we should try to pool them as much as possible to have one discussion. Whether it should be in one document is still the question, but that is a paper issue. But we need to look at what we're going to do with this industry at one point, how it's going to land and what we all have to do for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u133	I also ask this because I tabled a motion this morning, along with many colleagues in this Chamber, to provide the hydrogen roadmap with resources. Why is that necessary? Probably that's necessary to see those electrolytes actually rise on land by that group of existing people working hard on that. We shouldn't miss those opportunities. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will not move everything backwards now because he wants to join forces and discuss things at one time. I hope that road map will be a bit smooth, so that we can discuss it as well. So when exactly is it coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u134	Wait a minute. I first noted the request to do it all in one document and then the request to do it in different documents if it was not all done right away. Let me tell you what I'm up to. Whether it is more or less documents, I wanted to have an industrial discussion in this Chamber on the basis of concrete proposals. Of these, both green gas and hydrogen, as well as industry as a whole, should be included as much as possible, including infrastructure. There's gonna be that report from the Task Force Infrastructure. Does that seem like an attractive prospect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u135	Finally, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u136	When does the Minister expect that? Because I had hoped that we would get that road map, and that road map for green gas, which I have often asked for, as the Minister knows, to the Chamber a bit quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u137	Yes. I was thinking of a time-phase that is best described as "a little rafty"! Let me get the exact date... A lot of people and a lot of specialists are working on this. A McKinsey report has also just been published that provides input for the hydrogen component. It's being worked very hard and we want it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u138	But at least we can discuss it before the summer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u139	Yes, of course. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u140	Maybe we'll have the place in a month? I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u141	Oh... We're on the market now! I'm gonna find out when that can be done, okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u142	At the risk of me asking questions like my colleagues that we have already asked, I am going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u143	They're the easiest!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u144	The question is also very topical, because this morning there was another piece in the Dutch newspaper that investors are currently paying €1.05 to get back €1 in ten years' time. You heard me right. They now pay one euro and a penny to get one euro back in ten years' time. And what do they invest in? In Dutch government bonds. We're being admitted to borrowing money. We had this discussion in the Minister's growth strategy. We're gonna get a piece of Treasury this month. My question is whether there is progress in explaining the application of the investment fund to the opportunities in that transition, and more specifically whether there is a route in it to enable hydrogen on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u145	That document comes not only from the Treasury, but also from me. I don't see any obstacle in that. I am going to make sure that the lyrics on this point are completely clear. In the end, of course, politics does not decide what the promising projects are. This must be viewed independently economically and technically in terms of content. But there is no provision that certain types of infrastructure would not be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u146	I was expecting this answer, but I still have one more question. Mr Sienot rightly spoke of the enormous acceleration we have seen at sea. We have also seen a huge cost reduction in the sun. Who made that possible? That wasn't the Netherlands. It was other countries that made initial investments in the wind sector and in the solar sector. If we now want to win a competition on hydrogen, we will also have to bear a lot of initial costs. My concern is that when the criteria of the investment fund are implemented, they will be looked at in such a way that this is not considered cost-effective, because you are going to have to bear the costs that other people benefit from and at the very beginning you will have to deal with them as deeply as possible. Does the Minister understand my concern and is he going to do his best to make this type of project possible via this route?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u147	Those projects are not excluded, but the assessment is not mine. By the way, I do say that there is nothing against letting others pay the development costs of things that you will then make money with yourself. The hydrogen economy could do the same. Then Mrs. Mulder. I went into detail about this further compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr. Sienot hasn't been fully debated yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond briefly to this. Indeed, there is nothing against letting other countries take initial costs. But what is much opposed is to allow other countries to take off with production capacity and with jobs and all economic prosperity. I think that's exactly what happened with sun and wind. We started and we let the ball go. Let's not do that again. I think that is particularly the call we make here as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u150	We are now in danger of entering into a debate not on the elimination of nine large consumers, but on a specific element of the industrial strategy, or a very specific element of it, namely hydrogen, and or a specific element of it, namely the investment strategy, which raises the question of whether we are going to make money by building electrolytes or whether we are the best location for sustainable industries. My proposal is to postpone this discussion until there is a discussion paper. Although Mr Sienot only wants lists of actions, I think it is a good thing that we should talk about this kind of question once on the basis of a piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u151	I hear what the Minister says, but the ball is there and I want to kick it anyway. My plea is: let there be a Wiebes-Wopke hydrogen fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u152	WWW, yes. Very good. That ball's been kicked. Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether the nine large consumers can avail themselves of the instruments we have under the Climate Agreement. Of course you can. They are in no way disadvantaged. Her question if we're on schedule with the energy bill I answered. I had an exchange of views with Mr Stoffer on industries in Zeeland. I do not see Mrs De Vries' extra CO emissions happening immediately. Of course, the intention was less. By the way, there are still companies that have variants on the table that would mean less CO emissions on Dutch territory. I don't see a lake right away. Of course, I have discussed the guarantees for security of supply in case of setbacks. I said we're not setting an absolute fence for the use of the Groningen field. I just hope I don't need it. I don't think I need it either. Let's see. It also asks whether it is properly regulated that the disadvantage compensation is not considered as State aid. Well, then we're tied up. That's my estimate of up to five years. We just talked about that. I said a few words about the criteria for exemption. I explained why I couldn't be there very precisely. I did the timing, too. I do not really have an answer to her question about a policy rule. She's gonna need a little credit for that. I would just like to highlight the fact that I would like to give Mrs De Vries an answer to her question about the policy rule and the AMvB. You also asked a question about monitoring. I am kept regularly informed by GTS, who is the performer of this project. We also have contact with individual companies. There's a team that's been in contact with these companies all the time. The bill stipulates that GTS will send the planning to me. I can adjust it. I can keep the Chamber informed. If it is not possible to switch on time, this may be a reason for a temporary exemption. That way I monitor this and then the Chamber gets informed. Mr President, I am through the first period, with the exception of those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mrs De Vries has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u154	This law was intended to enter into force on 1 January 2020. I believe that the date of October 2022 was also appropriate. I specifically asked whether it is realistic and feasible that all parties, GTS and customers, can actually be ready for this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u155	I have already said that one party is probably not going to be able to meet the conditions laid down in the law and that four still have to work very hard and are not yet sure whether they comply with them. That's what the waiver's for. With the others, the expectation is that they will make it, but it is desirable that there should be clarity about the legal obligations. That is why I am pleased that we can deal with this bill at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u156	We can now proceed to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make two motions. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this amendment to the Gas Act guarantees companies by compensating for incurred costs;]] [[Whereas Groningers still have no certainty about the reinforcement operation;]] [[calls on the government to clarify for everyone in the earthquake area before the end of 2020 whether or not their property is eligible for reinforcement, and to plan to know when that reinforcement will take place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35328-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u158	I'm a little afraid the Minister's gonna say this is out of order in the debate, but I've already pointed out that research by the University of Groningen shows that many Groningers are worried that once that gas tap is closed, the government will disappear. I didn't think of that myself. We can take those concerns away. There is a list of 26,000 homes that may need to be strengthened. Often people don't know if they're on it or not. Give people the clarity. My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 75 million has been earmarked to compensate for the investments needed for conversion by large customers of low-caloric gas;]] [[noting that 650,000 households already live in energy poverty;]] [[considers that it is fair for the security of companies to be extended to households in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to also reserve EUR 75 million for sustainability for households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35328-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u159	I hope, of course, that not only the submission will be sufficiently supported, but that the motion will also receive sufficient support. I think it is right that we should give certainty not only to Shell and Exxon and to the nine large consumers, but also to Groningen and to all households in the Netherlands. I have also tabled an amendment, which I hope will receive sufficient support. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Mr Moorlag, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are making a first step with the phasing out of natural gas, in the sense that it will also simply have an impact on the gas network. We know there's gonna be a long march. The whole industry will have to switch to other energy sources. Some of the population will have to do the same. I am concerned about the development of network costs for the people and companies still using natural gas, because the support for network costs is becoming increasingly narrower. I have stressed the importance of preserving the gas network properly. You shouldn't throw away old shoes until you get new ones. Hydrogen and green gas seem to be very good alternatives, whether combined or not, for which that gas network can be significant. The Minister also mentioned this as a distinctive advantage. I endorse that. In the energy transition, the Netherlands has the distinctive advantage that we have the gas network, that we have a lot of capacity to generate wind at sea and that we can therefore also produce hydrogen. So that gas network needs to be preserved, but we need to have the costs and benefits for consumers and businesses clearly during that transition period. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of natural gas as a result of the energy transition will be phased out progressively;]] [[Whereas parts of the gas network, whether first preserved or not, can be used for the distribution of other molecular energy carriers;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate re-use options and scenarios, including social costs and benefits, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35328-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr. Chairman. Good and concrete steps have been taken in a number of areas. With this law, which will support the PvdA, the disadvantage compensation is well arranged, but as a Groninger I feel obliged to say: make work of that reinforcement, make work of the improvement of the damage recovery. That is where the disadvantage compensation will really have to take shape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I call Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've had the Minister's answers taken care of. That's why two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that gas production in the Dutch part of the North Sea continues where possible safely,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to speed up the end of gas exports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35328-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35328-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u165	I let the first motion work on me for a moment, but my idea is that that's just standing policy. Would Mr Kops want to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr Sienot may call that, but the oil and gas companies are concerned because last year for the first time in decades has not been successful drilling. This is partly due to the nitrogen crisis, they say. No more permits are granted because of nitrogen. That's a bad thing. Hence this motion. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u167	That's it? Thank you, Mr. Kops. Then we will listen to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u168	Thank you, Mr President, but also thank you to the Minister for answering and explaining in detail why we need this bill. It provides the certainty that Groningers deserve that we will bring the gas extraction at Slochteren to zero as soon as possible. I think all the questions have been answered satisfactorily. I have no further motions. There are a lot of other issues around Groningen that we often talk about. I have all kinds of wishes for that, but I am not going to repeat them now. I would like to raise one more point. That affects a little bit of the interruption debate that we had earlier and the concerns that you see arise in all kinds of concrete steps in the transition. I said this morning in a small debate: we have fought against climate scepticism for a very long time. I think we've come a long way. But you are now seeing the emergence of transcendence, challenging every concrete step we take. I have called on the Minister's colleague to seek dialogue with the critics who report every week, also to contribute to the separation of fact and fiction. One part of the transition isn't the whole transition. You shouldn't say "we shouldn't get rid of the gas, because then everyone gets in the cold" while there are other options that are also being discussed, such as heat grids, full electric and so on. I hope that the Minister and his colleagues will try a little more and more actively to prevent unnecessary acceptance under the transition. In addition, of course, every transition hurts and costs, for our society as a whole and for end-users. I will come back to the issue of the investment fund. I do not want to talk so much about the vehicle of the fund, but about the fact that we have a fiscal policy that is successful in reducing our public debt, certainly compared to other Member States in the Union. We need to look at our public finances in a different way, and we need to take much more of the opportunity than we are now to use our strong capital position for investments that are real investments and that are also going to yield returns, for example when it comes to hydrogen. The future earning opportunities attached to this must be exploited. We should not, as we are now, directly tell stories about any investment on citizens and businesses. I hope that the Minister will take this with him, including in his discussions with his colleague in the finance department. I will come back to this in full in all the debates on the investment fund, the industrial strategy, the hydrogen structure vision, and you name it. It is crucial, also for the basis of our support, that we go on a different course with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Mr. Sienot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr. Chairman. We're on our way. According to the Minister, we are on schedule, so that in 2022 we actually converted the button from the Groningen gas field. I say here what I have said before, namely: do everything I can. I've done that before. We are counting on this to work now, if we put everything in place. I would also like us to see the necessary acceleration in the area of reinforcement. Then the sustainability. It's kind of funny, because I think everyone here just agrees with the law. That is why we soon had a somewhat higher debate on a very different subject, which seems to me to be immediate. If you're gonna give it up, there's got to be something in place for that. That is my next point. We're kissing nine giants now. We need to ensure that there is actually an alternative for them to go clean, even in the long term. We need to help them, but we also need to see how the cabinet, the coalition, can make sure that a next coalition can build on something. That's more than a document. I commend the Minister for his document and strategy. I share with him the view that, of course, you have to work on a foundation. A good vision helps. But my call for an action list was mainly linked to the fact that you also want things done. My experience with strategy papers is quite common that in such beautifully written documents it is often with a magnifying glass looking for where it becomes concrete, what you are about to do. Hence my express appeal: keep it short and keep it action-oriented. There must of course be a vision, but we have already written a lot in the chapter on industry in the Climate Agreement. When can we expect something, see what and do what? Then today we did not wake those nine giants up for nothing, not only for the Groningers, but also to really convert a button and produce gasless in the longer term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u171	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister and his staff for answering all the questions. Of course, we're all doing this because of the safety of our Groningers. I think it was also clear today that everyone has that very clearly on the retina. Thanks also to the companies for their efforts, because they are asking a lot of them. It is also a good thing that the Minister wants to offer extra space, especially for Zeeland, to meet this in a good way. That is why I have a motion, which sets out what I think the Minister meant, or at least what I meant. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ban on the removal of low-caloric gas is an exceptional measure affecting companies in their operations;]] [[Whereas all affected companies may face high costs, which may be one-off costs and recurring costs;]] [[calls on the Government to take account of the particular nature of the measure and the extent to which businesses are affected by extending the period for which recurring costs are reimbursed from three to five years in the scheme for loss compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Stoffer, Mr Sienot and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35328-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u173	Then I await the answer to my question from the first term. I'll probably get that later. That question was when, as soon as possible, I hope to be able to discuss it as soon as possible with regard to this beautiful hydrogen route map. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u174	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Finally, Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I would have thought Mr Stoffer would speak, but he does not. My colleagues have already mentioned it: it is important that gas extraction from the Groningen field can be reduced to zero as soon as possible. I also assume that the Minister will do everything in his power to do so, and will do everything in his power to do so in this process with the nine companies. It is also clear that the security of supply must not be compromised. This is also an important aspect for us. There are two other points I would like to address. On the one hand, I supported Mrs Agnes Mulder's motion because, as far as we are concerned, we cannot, in a region where everything is going on, ask a lot of questions from a company, and we must therefore be aware that it is not at the expense of employment in Zeeland. We currently have a very different route with Zeeland, so I think we should take that into account. I also assume that the Minister is looking very closely at that. In the broadest sense, I would like to ask the Minister to keep the House of Representatives well informed about the progress made in these nine companies, the impact it has on a number of companies and on employment and the way in which he acts on them. I think it would be a bad thing if employment were to fall. Then there are the possibilities of exemption. Thank you for that. I must honestly say that I only interpret it in such a way that the examples I have mentioned would be an option for exemption. I think it is important that there can be tailor-made work, but I also think it is important that the Minister keeps an eye on the risks of not being able to close the Groningen field quickly and keeps a good focus on that ball in order to achieve that. That's some kind of balance that needs to be sought. I'm assuming the minister will be looking for them, too. But we do think it is important that there should be no risk of closing the Groningen field in time. Especially at that point I keep the focus on the ball. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I will suspend the sitting until 5.20 p.m. and then we will listen to the Minister's reply in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u177	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u178	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motions. Questions about Putin and permafrost are not answered, but I think these two motions by Mrs Beckerman go a long way. This is not the subject of the debate. She thought I was gonna say that, but that's what I'm saying. But it is also not the right ruler and there will soon be an AO left. I get the calls. I have nothing against the contents of the calls. She can ask the government. She may ask the Chamber for an opinion on this, but this does not apply here. I have not been able to discuss this with my colleague who is doing both the sustainability in the built environment and the reinforcement. And I would really suggest that this fits into a VAO after an AO, because otherwise the debate is really about everything. Then we haven't left a topic unspoken. Only on corona might another motion be expected. I'm not saying anything negative about Mrs Beckerman's concerns, but this is something I can't do that much with all the axes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u179	It's very easy to say this has nothing to do with it. Why are we lowering this gas extraction? The safety of Groningers. What's a threat to that security? That's an unsafe house. The motion in part No. 10 simply asks to ensure that all 26,000 people who are now on a list and whose homes may be unsafe know this year whether they are on that list or not and what the planning is. This has everything to do with this debate. This debate is about our insecurity and many things have to be done. Gas extraction must go to zero and those homes must be strengthened. I'd really like to ask for an opinion. If the Minister cannot give that, he can ask a colleague and make sure that we have that judgment before we vote next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u180	Along this road, all the subjects on earth are related and we are all related to Charlemagne, but this is too indirect. I can't do anything with this in all honesty. I think I'd be doing the motions wrong if I just betrayed them for procedural reasons. I would advise Mrs Beckerman to ask the questions first in the AA that I have with my colleague. If after that there is a need for the Chamber to make a call, it can be done in a VAO. There's all kinds of constructions for that, but I can't make chocolate out of this place. It's a bit of a choice between holding on, filing later or dissuading.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u181	I see Mrs Beckerman still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u182	I'm not gonna hold them. I shall put them to the vote on Tuesday and I shall raise this again at the next AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u183	Then I would ask the Minister to give a formal opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u184	Then my judgment is: dissuade. The motion in part No. Mr Moorlag asked the government to investigate the possibilities and scenarios. I have already said that I think that is a good idea. I would like to leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber, but in some way we will have to agree on timing. A first step towards this will undoubtedly fit in with the green gas vision and hydrogen vision. However, a final assessment of how this should go is only relevant towards 2050 and requires a more informed understanding of the gas use of the industry and the heat plans of the municipalities. So with that phasering, this will have to be done. There is no immediate plan for every part of the gas network in the Netherlands. It can't be. That is also irresponsible. I think Mr Moorlag does not mean that either. But with that premise...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u185	I don't think that's what it says in the motion. It's foreseeable. You can just think about it in scenarios. However, I can understand the argument put forward by the Minister in the reply in the first term. He said, "Those remains must be there first."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u186	Yeah, and those heat plans, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u187	I can very well justify waiting for that to happen. But I do think that we should start thinking early about that reduced support for the gas network and how we're going to preserve it and re-vote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u188	Clear. I agree. I believe that we should do this in a time-phase in which we make the right decisions with the right knowledge. The motion gets judgment, Chamber, with that story in it. The motion in part No. 13 of Mr Kops has been judged Chamber. What a wise call. Thank you for that. The underlying idea of the motion in part No. 14 by Mr Kops, in order to end gas exports as quickly as possible, I fully share this view. I am very much in favour of that. But if I left the motion judgment Chamber, I would suggest that we have not done everything we can to do so as soon as possible. The possibilities seem exhausted to me now. We have spent a great deal of time on this and have talked to benevolent governments and private parties across the border. But I don't want to suggest to Groninger that there's much more to win if it isn't. So I have to discourage the motion for that reason. I think Mr Kops's appeal is exactly the right one. The motion in part No. 15 from Mrs Mulder, on the exceptional nature and extension from three to five years, I should like to leave Chamber. As soon as the Chamber calls me in this responsible way to do that from three to five, I will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u189	Minister, do I understand correctly that both motions by Mrs Beckerman are dissuaded by you? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u190	Both? Why do I only have one? I have here the motion in part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u191	No, it concerns the motions by Mrs Beckerman, on the items Nos. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u192	Oh, the motions on the items Nos. 10 and 11. Sorry, I'm out of my mind. The story of Mr Van der Lee did cheer me up, which called for a more visionary progress. He talked about the strong capital position, a low public debt, low interest rates, the need to do something about earning power, seize opportunities, invest not directly stories on people and businesses, but those people do. That is the growth strategy of the Netherlands in the shortest possible summary from the opposition, for which thanks. Mr Sienot called for action. Mrs Mulder, I think we could have the green gas and hydrogen parts of the story by April. The piece that lasts a little longer and which already comes from the task force in April, is the infrastructure piece. That's very important. That's part of the job. I could send that later, for example in May. Then it would, I think, be useful to discuss it more in common. That's the calendar I've seen so far. And then there is the proposal on the CO2 tax. Et cetera, et cetera. That's a lot of parts that affect the industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u193	In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for this further commitment on when the documents come to the Chamber. I would also like to add to the motion I tabled a co-rapporteur, if that is the way to do it: Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u194	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mrs De Vries spoke about the effects of the disadvantage compensation. There will be a policy rule with the starting points. There will be a ministerial arrangement containing procedural rules, for example on the deadline, the decision-making period and the supporting documents to be provided. At the beginning of this year, the companies submitted their views on the loss compensation. They were mostly positive. Those views are involved in the elaboration, as far as they contain comments. Both the policy rule and the ministerial regulation are published at the same time as the legislative proposal. They therefore enter into effect simultaneously. The nine customers will then be informed about the process of the disadvantage compensation scheme. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u196	Minister, on this side of the table, we haven't quite understood from you whether you'd advise both of Mrs Beckerman's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u198	The answer is yes. Then that's for eternity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u199	I understand that the Minister occasionally goes along with all the visionary views that have been discussed today. In my second term, I would have asked the Minister a specific question. This was about information provision, keeping the Lower House informed, about how companies are doing, about employment. In particular, I have made a comment about Zeeland and the consequences for the companies in Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u200	I saw a call in that and not so much a question. But I would like to confirm that I will monitor progress and keep the Chamber informed. As soon as employment effects occur, I will also point out that. They can be avoided, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u201	Yes, and the question is to zoom in specifically on Zeeland, because we have a different route there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u202	Clear. That's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u203	Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u204	I thank the Minister. Voting on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions will take place next Tuesday.
