ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u1	The issue at present is the examination of the Law 35218, Amendment of the Publication Act and other laws relating to the electronic publication of general notices, communications and notifications (Law on Electronic Publications). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u3	The PVV Group has already asked the necessary questions in the written examination of this bill. Following this, we still have a few questions for the Secretary of State. In the written round, the PVV asked the question about the use of citizens' e-mail addresses. These email addresses are already present at MyGovernment and can be used by this bill to approach these citizens for email alerts. Someone may have provided an e-mail address to MyGovernment for a purpose other than information about notices, for example for applying for child benefit, and now the government wants to process and link these e-mail addresses to the BRP in order to send unsolicited e-mail notifications. On the question of whether it is a correct and legitimate way of dealing with citizens' data when they process email addresses from MyGovernment without their explicit consent for a purpose other than that for which they have been provided, the State Secretary states: "When, as in the present case, there is a legal task, namely to send an electronic message on the notices, notices and notices in the publications that relate to the address of the recipient in the Basic Registration Persons, it is necessary to process personal data for the purpose of carrying out that legal task. This processing does not require explicit consent, because..." And now it comes to this: "the bill in the Publication Act provides for the jurisdiction of the said Article 20." This is a curious course of action. This is because it concerns data that citizens have previously provided to MyGovernment, so before the present bill comes into force. Thus, the Secretary of State assumes that that power applies retroactively to the information provided. Can the Secretary of State explain and justify what that retroactive effect is based on? Can the Secretary of State explain why there would be no need for explicit consent to the processing of such data? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the Secretary of State referred in the reply regarding data processing to the pre-arranged Digital Government Decision. I quote: "Medio March, the draft decision amending the Decision on processing of personal data has been put forward for generic digital infrastructure in connection with the establishment of the frameworks for information security and personal data processing. The Decision on processing personal data generic digital infrastructure is provided by that draft Decision with the citation title Digital Government Decision. That decision shall specify, inter alia, that the Minister of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations for the establishment, provision, maintenance, operation, security and reliability of MyGovernment over MyGovernment users processes the data necessary for the General Notices, Notifications and Communications Service, including the Civil Service Number, Date of Birth, User's Current Address and Email Address." However, this Digital Government Decision is governed by the Digital Government Act, the WDO, which is still under discussion in this Chamber. Can the Secretary of State clarify the link between the current legislative proposal and the SDO, including in the context of the aforementioned decision? Can the Secretary of State also indicate to what extent the introduction and application of this bill depend on the introduction of the SDO? To what extent will the mandatory login from the WDO have a role to play in the application of MyGovernment? Mr President, as far as the first deadline is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then I give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a story from my hometown. In our village lived a man with learning difficulties. His name was Jan, but he was always called Jantje, a phony name. Jan was a friendly man, had a lot of trouble reading and writing, stood positive in life, could work well with his hands and the whole village took care of Jan. That was nice. My father, who worked for the Empire as a citizen, was keen to give him a permanent job. After all, he could work well. But he wasn't allowed to, because of his limitations. What would be the impact of the Electronic Publications Act on Jan's life? This law wouldn't have helped Jan. Jan needed support from family and fellow villagers. That's the only way he could live. If Jan had lived now, he would have needed the help of others to understand the government's electronic publications. My second story is about the church of Kerkrade. That's near my hometown. In the first week of June there was a message in De Limburger with a head and a half tons extra for approach low literacy. In Kerkrade, one in six citizens between 15 and 65 have difficulty reading and writing. The programme started in 2016 and the aim was to improve the language level by 2021 of at least 300 of those citizens. So far, the program has been successful. A small 400 civilians are in on it. In Kerkrade, approximately 28,500 citizens live between the ages of 15 and 65. When one in six has trouble reading and writing, we talk about 4,750 citizens. If we help 400 citizens in five years, we need about 60 years to solve this problem. My impression is that the problem in Kerkrade is being dealt with professionally. This story shows that we are dealing with a difficult problem. It's good to get those numbers to get through to you. One in six inhabitants has difficulty reading and writing and thus communicating electronically with the government. Throughout Limburg, it is one in eight inhabitants. This is, in Limburg's words, "if not," the Secretary of State may correct me, not "small beer." Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the Electronic Publications Act today. I am pleased to be able to contribute to this debate on behalf of the CDA and the Labour Party. I thank them for this trust. Let me begin with the remark that this law contains beautiful innovative elements, such as the attention service via the account at MyGovernment. It may well be that this will really lead to a breakthrough in informing citizens. The groups of the CDA, the PvdA and the Christian Union are particularly concerned about the large number of Dutch people who have difficulty reading and writing. For them, this law will not or will not automatically lead to better communication with the government. They point to the WRR report "Knowing is not yet done. A realistic perspective on redundancy." The point of this report is that far from all citizens are in an acceptable way able to meet the high demands of resiliency that modern society places on them and that the government should take this into account in its policy. They also refer to the report of the Remkes Committee, "Low thresholds, high dikes. Democracy and the rule of law in balance." It stresses that the legitimacy of the system should be rediscovered in a new political-democratic culture, with a strong emphasis on political proximity. This proximity can thus be reflected, among other things, in the way in which the government informs its citizens. I would like to address a number of issues, first of all, low literacy and digital skills, communicating through clear language, communicating through images, providing additional information and real communication. I'll start with low literacy and digital skills. The Reading & Writing Foundation gives the following facts: 2.5 million adults, 18% of the Dutch population aged 16 and over, have great difficulty reading and writing and/or calculating, are low-literate and often have problems with digital skills. Low-skilled people have less functional language skills and therefore have more difficulty developing digital skills. If someone is low-lettered, it is harder for that person to search and navigate the Internet. The risk of insufficient digital skills is about three times higher among low-literate students. The Secretary of State writes in the further reply, on page 6, that it is the ambition of the Cabinet to reach as many low-lettered people as possible. Partly on the basis of this statement, I would like to distinguish between three groups. There is a group that can be reached with the programme Working together. There is a group that can save itself with the help of family or friends. And there is a group that is not motivated, does not yet want to be helped or has a limited learning capacity. Our first question is whether the Secretary of State could indicate the size of the various groups. Should we think of 80%-10%-10% or, for example, 30%-30%-40%? It's only about the order of magnitude. It is also important for this debate. Mr. Chairman. I will start with the group that can be reached with the programme Working together. This group was already mentioned in my story about the municipality of Kerkrade. The programme Working together for a skilled Netherlands, follow-up approach to low literacy 2020-2024, is an ambitious programme, which involves many parties and is further developed at municipal level. It also gives nice examples of how the problem of low literacy can be tackled. In short, a programme the Secretary of State can be proud of. The question of the groups of CDA, PvdA and ChristianUnion is how many low-lettered people will be helped in the coming years. Does this substantially reduce the number of low-literate people? Does this lead to a trend break? What does it take to answer these questions properly? The second question is how this programme will be evaluated. Can the evaluation focus precisely on whether this programme has led to a trend break? I'm coming to the second group now. That is the group that can save itself with the help of family, friends or citizens. That's the group that came up in the story about the village of my youth. What approach does the government have to activate and motivate this group's environment? Which bodies and voluntary organisations does the Secretary of State work with? Is he willing to cooperate with this to make sure that this group is helped by people close to him? How does the Secretary of State intend to achieve a substantial improvement for this group? What is needed to achieve a trend break for this group? I'm getting to the third group. That is the group that is not motivated, does not yet want to have help or has a limited learning capacity. In this group there is usually a complex problem. However, we would like to ask the Secretary of State to share his thoughts on this group with us. What possibilities does he see to make this group as small as possible? I now come to the subject of communicating through clear language.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u6	I would like to commend Mr Verkerk on the fact that low literacy is indeed a problem in public communications. In the group that is not motivated, a different category can also be distinguished from those who are low-literate due to limited language abilities. Do you also see the group that is not prepared to learn the Dutch language on the basis of the Law? Do you distinguish those of this group, or do you summarize all this among that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u7	In the group that is not motivated, I did not investigate why they are not motivated to develop in the Dutch language. I didn't investigate that. That is not important for this debate either, as far as I am concerned. I look forward to the Minister's answer to the question of how he thinks about this group. We certainly know that this group is complex because of a multitude of problems. These can be cultural problems, they can be problems in the background, so where someone comes from, and they can be educational problems. That's a broad group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u8	Does Mr Verkerk perhaps agree with me that it would be a great incentive if the municipality itself were to take the initiative to enforce the Language Requirement Act? Because that's something that's not happening right now. The Language Needs Act is simply not enforced in many municipalities, which means that language disadvantages are simply maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u9	We are not talking about the language requirement Act. I do know that there are many volunteers who help people from another country to learn the Dutch language. I love that. That is, for example, the type of volunteers from the second group, which we talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u10	Mr. Van Hattem, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u11	Then I have a third step. If the problem is getting bigger because people come from another country, do not understand the language and therefore can get into trouble with this law, would it not be much better to ensure that the influx of people who are not powerful in the Dutch language and do not want to be powerful?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u12	I don't know which people you're talking to from another country, but I talk to people from another country all the time. On Sunday I had another visitor, and he spoke Dutch. I speak to a lot of people who speak Dutch. You're suggesting that this group is primarily about those kinds of people. I don't have the data on that. I distance myself from your suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mr. Van Hattem, your fourth and final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u14	I would like to focus on what we are talking about here, which groups are involved and where the problems are. We can talk about language deficits. We can talk about lack of language skills. But if it is a very broad group and we do not have a clear idea of where the problem is, I would like to mention a few points of concern which can be taken into account. This is one of the points I would like to make. Language disadvantage among ethnic groups and especially among newcomers is just a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u15	I'm going back to South Limburg. If there is a place where relatively few people from other countries live, then it is South Limburg. There the number of people who have difficulties with language is incredibly large. It's one in six, Mr. Van Hattem. That has nothing to do with foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u16	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u17	Mr President, I shall continue. On page 5 of the further reply, the State Secretary states that the use of clear language is promoted under the Electronic Publications Act. He also pointed out that the number of texts concerned was currently being mapped out. The goal is that all texts, all standard texts, are written in clear language. How many lines are we talking about? When will all these texts be written in plain language? Can the Secretary of State undertake to inform the First Chamber of this in due course? I come to the subject of communicating through images. In the context of MyGovernment, the Secretary of State writes in the further reply, on page 7, that digital traffic has a greater potential to reach people with disabilities and less skills than paper communication. Among other things, it points out the possibility of e-texting. Couldn't it be that we have to think a lot further here? It is now possible to communicate virtually every message in the form of images or a combination of images and a limited number of words. At this point there is a great deal of profit to be made. Shouldn't that be a separate trail? I'm talking about a track next to reducing low literacy, a track next to communicating through clear language. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this possibility? What's it gonna take to realize that? And for how many low-literate people would this be a solution? I come to the question of supplementary information. The Secretary of State expects a lot from MyGovernment. In the further explanatory statement, he writes, on page 8, that after the entry into force of the bill, the government will gain insight into the range of attention service at different locations. He also wrote that these data would be linked to the administrative bodies, so that they could also be used to determine where additional information would be required. Our question is: what exactly does that mean? Can the Secretary of State work this out? Are the governing bodies going to fill this out themselves? How are they going to do that roughly? Will there be guidelines? Is there going to be a policy? So just, what does it mean? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point: real communication. We see that many organisations in our country are retreating behind a digital barrier. You can only communicate with them digitally. No one wants the government to do the same. Precisely for vulnerable citizens, and one day we will all become vulnerable, real communication from face to face, to say it truly in Dutch, deserves to be preferred. In the further reply, the Secretary of State states that there is an obligation for administrative bodies to designate a physical counter where the documents are available for inspection and where real communication is possible. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this is foreseen? What means does the Secretary of State have to ensure that this provision is and remains accessible and cannot be reduced or marginalised? The political groups of the CDA, the PvdA and the Christian Union look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u18	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs Gerkens from the SP Group will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I am still chewing a little bit, not only on a cookie but also on the last words of Mr Verkerk. Then I think about my children and also about the target group of my other job. So often I say to those bunch of guys "get the phone," because they do everything digitally. Maybe that's also a bit of the generation gap we have. I don't know if it's good, but I notice. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a seemingly small regulation concerning the digital publishing of government regulations. The fraction of the SP welcomes this step. But behind this arrangement is also a bigger story, a policy story and also a farewell to a piece of history. As we now know, the State News will play a less prominent role in our constitutional procedures. I would like to address the policy aspects of the legislation in this period. Mr. Chairman. It has been stated above that this scheme is intended to bring government decisions closer to the people. When announcements are digital, they are also easier to find for people, at least in theory. There are many drawbacks to the way in which the paper decision-making is now made public. If you miss a house-to-house magazine once, or if you don't want that magazine at all, you may miss important decision-making as a citizen. By automatic attention someone can be kept informed of new announcements and can read them again quietly, without the physical paper tray filling up. Another big advantage is that those announcements will also be searchable. Searchable for search engines but also for people on specific topics. They can then set up an alert, such as a Google Alert. Notices can also be found at a later date. As a result, the processes that have been completed can also be followed. All in all, this improves public transparency, and that is a good thing. But there are also concerns. One concern lies in the ease of electronic publication. Being able to find information digitally can also create a bigger bubble than all the limitations that the physical information has brought with it so far. It sets requirements for findability, clear communication and accessibility. To start with the latter: it's bad. If the accessibility directives have not been followed, 35% of Dutch people cannot read a website. 35%! Now our government has issued directives, the so-called W3 directives, which a website has to comply with in order to ensure accessibility. Unfortunately, we have to note that our own government rarely adheres to these directives. I currently count eight websites of the government that meet the accessibility requirements, and that is little. Mr President, I found out in the preparation of this debate that our own First Chamber does not yet comply with these guidelines either. I care about that, even as a member of the HC. I will see to it that the deadline of the end of September is met. But I would like the same commitment from the Secretary of State, not only for the government but also for the local authorities. I know that the Secretary of State has limited resources for this, but I would also like to say to the Secretary of State: this is taking too long. Web accessibility is something that I made myself hard for during my Second Chamber period, and I left there ten years ago. It can and should not be the case that there are now public websites that do not meet the accessibility requirements we have set. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore how he will deal with this. Then the findability. The logic of some government websites escapes me completely. It's looking for the places where information can be found. Sometimes that feels like the Escher Maze, and you can't. Public sector information must be easy to find, logically structured and in clear language. My question to the Secretary of State is how he will encourage municipalities to provide public sector information in a logical way. What is avenging here is a point that I have been raising for years now, namely the gap between digitisation and, therefore, standardisation on the one hand, and the need for each municipality to be able to profile itself on the other. Now one doesn't have to bite the other. One can still profile oneself with a website that is standardized in technique and structure, but in appearance unique. The advantage of this is that everyone always knows what structure is being followed on that website and they do not need to find their way again for every municipality or every government. Is the Secretary of State prepared to commit to such a standard website? My final point is about a target group that is often forgotten and those are the intellectually limited ones. Here too, public policy is aimed at ensuring that this target group participates as much as possible in our society and they are largely capable of doing so. But for this group, too, public communication needs to be adapted. My group believes that too often the target group is forgotten. Let me give you an example. When the corona crisis broke out, it took more than two weeks for a relatively small amount of €25,000 to be released to make videos that clearly explained to this group of people why they suddenly had to stay in the institutions. That's too long. What is the possibility for the Secretary of State to present decision-making that affects this target group, also digitally, to them in understandable language? For the sake of completeness, I agree with Mr Verkerk's questions in this area. It also turns out that often low-literate people are helped with this type of video. The target group is thus really much larger. In conclusion. In the further digitisation of our society, we often focus on the availability of paper communications. My group wonders whether there is sufficient attention to the quality of digital communication. For the provision of good information by the public authorities, it contains clear language, is accessible to all target groups, is understandable and, above all, can be found. In all these areas, the government is failing, and that is serious. Further digitising public communication is a logical step, but this step is a reduction in transparency and increases the gap between people and government when the basic conditions for this communication are not in order. To the Secretary of State, what are the steps he is going to take against this. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. The microphones need to be reset and then cleaned. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. In 1981 I was a lawyer with Stibbe in Amsterdam. One day, the entire office was invited to the secretary's room, because there was something special we had to see. The office had purchased a word-processing computer. Full of admiration and surprise we looked at the secretary and how her fingers screamed over the keyboard. If she made a typo, she wouldn't have to turn out the paper, she wouldn't have to use Tipp-Ex and the text would appear on some kind of television. That's what she called a monitor. We saw a revolution in the making. We are now almost 40 years ahead and developments have continued at a rapid rate. Today we are discussing the bill of electronic publications. There are hundreds of thousands of government publications from hundreds of administrative bodies using a large number of different media, electronic but still printed media, such as home-to-home magazines. The aim of the bill is to facilitate access to official publications by the public authorities. Publications of all public authorities are being unified. According to a standard they are published on the website of government.nl. The electronic information is accessible everywhere, accessible 24 hours a day and free of charge. The D66 Group supports the broad lines of this bill. Plenair, we would like to raise a few more points. First of all, and it has already been mentioned by previous speakers, the position of the low-lettered. Because not everyone can track the digital developments. According to the Stichting Lezen & Writing data, there are about 2.5 million adults who have great difficulty reading, writing and/or calculating. The risk of insufficient digital skills is about three times higher among low-literate students. That is why the foundation calls on governments, businesses, libraries and, of course, policy makers to pay more attention to digital skills. Previously, the multi-annual plan "Working together for a skilled Netherlands" has already been discussed. We have also looked at the project "Directly Clear: Clear Public Communication." In this debate, will the Secretary of State again explain what measures are being taken to reduce the gap between the low-literate and others in terms of access to public communications? I found the questions put by Mr Verkerk on behalf of three groups very relevant. I would like to join with you on this point. Mr. Chairman. It is very important that the government communicates understandable language. The question is what action is being taken to achieve model texts in clear language with local authorities and suppliers of business systems. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to comment on that. My second point concerns the importance of local media. There is already a significant shift from printed media to digital media. Local and regional newspapers miss advertising costs, especially as governments are spreading their information more and more digitally. For the proper functioning of local and regional democracy, it is important that journalists continue to attend and report on the meetings of, for example, the city council, the province and the water authorities. But if they get less income, it will be more difficult for those media to keep journalists in service and pay them reasonably for their work. The report of the Remkes State Commission, "Low thresholds, high dikes," also devotes valuable words to the information function, the platform function and the control function of the media and to the changes brought about by digitalisation in society. Would the Secretary of State wish to give his views in this debate on how he sees the future of local and regional media in relation to the democratic rule of law? Can the evaluation of this bill address the relationship between reduced advertising revenue and the quality of the media functions described by the State Commission on Remkes? Mr. Chairman. I come back to my final point: the ICT systems. In 2014, the temporary parliamentary research committee ICT projects in the Lower House, led by Ton Elias, warned against large-scale ICT projects that were not introduced and controlled in advance. This committee came up with no less than 34 recommendations, which should be implemented in connection with each other. How were the recommendations of the Elias Commission taken into account when it comes to digital government publications and the entire ICT infrastructure? How is the ICT Examination Office, BIT, involved in the implementation of this bill? Mr. Chairman. In 1981, my fellow lawyer and I saw a revolution in the field of ICT, namely the introduction of the word-processing computer. It is unclear when a revolution is over, because a revolution is a battle between the future and the past. In that fight between the future and the past, the legislative proposal for electronic publications is a small but important part. The D66 Group is looking forward to the answer by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u22	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Finally, Mr Crone has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. I will not say too much about all the fine things that have been said, because Mr Maarten Verkerk has already spoken excellently on our behalf, as has the CDA Group. The Labour Party welcomes this, but I would also like to join Mrs Gerkens' questions on the accessibility of public websites, which are often not and which often do not comply with the directives in force. Of course, the videos and the like that are there must also have an audio thesis. So we're still asking for a small addition. I am going to talk about something quite different, namely the supervision of construction. You'll wonder why I'm doing that. That is because this law deletes an article from construction legislation, which is actually a bit clumsy at the moment. The bill deletes Section B of Section 4.2.2 of the General Environmental Law Provisions Act. That was not illogical, because we would introduce the Environment Act at the same time as this law. But it has been delayed; it will not enter into force for another 1.5 years. This is going to cause a legal gap, regardless of the content, and there is no basis for municipalities to maintain on the construction site. I do not need to explain how important this is and how important it is to carry out a risk assessment of my own. The Second and First Chambers are arranging this unanimously, I say, with a line underneath it in the Quality Assurance for Building Act, the Wkb. But that law was passed here a few weeks ago, at least the implementing decisions, and both the Second and the First Chamber asked a lot of questions. They're wondering if they're gonna be okay. This morning we received a letter from the cabinet stating that the answers will not come before the summer, but after the recess. So there are some tension fields in time, which makes me see a problem for building maintenance. But we also have to discuss with the cabinet whether the amendments of the House of Representatives have been properly incorporated into what has been submitted to the House of Representatives. Because we want to give the full pound here, of course, to what the House of Representatives decides. It is a question of whether the risk assessment and supervision can be left to the private quality assurance agencies, or whether the government, or not. the municipalities or provinces themselves have an important supervisory role to play, as our position is and as it is laid down in those amendments. The solution now is not to hold the substantive debate, but at least to give room for the wide-ranging debate that still needs to be held and on which these questions have been asked. Our question to the Secretary of State is therefore to suspend the entry into force of this article until we agree that it is good. So we're suspending an article not to delete something, if you know what I mean. That's a request I'd like to make. I know that it is not the Secretary of State's portfolio but the Secretary of State's, but it is particularly good to ensure that we do not have a vacuum in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr Crone. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u25	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are now staying in a very nice location. It takes some getting used to, but it looks really nice. The electronic publishing bill is ahead of us. I would like to thank the Chamber for its input on this point. The detailed written preparation which preceded this has already made it clear where the main points for the Upper Chamber are. Before I answer your questions, I would like to say a few words about this bill, because the present new publication law amends a number of related provisions in the General Administrative Law Act. The cabinet has invested heavily in electronic infrastructure in recent years, with broad support from both Chambers and also along with time. As Mrs Gerkens said, these are different times. I have to look around 360° to see everyone, so I apologize for not looking at you all the time, Mrs. Gerkens. But it is right: the government wants to lead the way. We don't want to bump after it, we want to go with time. This calls for investment and new legislative proposals, in line with the situation we are now in. The same applies to the electronic infrastructure for public publications. All local authorities are now connected to them. The Staatsmaak, the Gemeenteblad, the Provincial Magazine and the Waterschapsblad are accessible electronically via the website officialebekeningen.nl. You can also subscribe to the attention service Messages about your neighborhood. One then receives an e-mail when a government publication concerns, for example, the environment in which one lives, such as a building permit that is requested by the neighbors. This bill aims to further increase the accessibility of government publications. The provisions on the electronic publications in the Municipal Act, Province Act, Waterschapswet and the Common Regulations Act are transferred to this Publication Act. In these magazines, all the generally binding rules are already published on the Internet. The regulations of local authorities are therefore published on the Internet. Publication is also a prerequisite for entry into force. Other decisions of general scope, which are not addressed to one or more addressees, have so far been made public by publication in home-to-home newspapers or other appropriate media. In addition, information on decisions is also published in open-ended journals for the purpose of participation and to allow other interested parties to object and appeal. This is often the case with the notification of an application for an environmental permit or the granting of such an authorisation. At the same time, we have to note that the range of paper sheets is declining. Home-to-home magazines are no longer delivered everywhere and not everyone wants to receive those magazines. We know the famous no-nees stickers on the mailbox. Thus, less is published in these magazines. That is an autonomous development, appropriate to the time in which we live. At present there are 100 municipalities with a total of 7 million inhabitants who no longer publish in house-to-house newspapers. These decisions are taken by the municipalities themselves, apart from the legislation in force here. It is therefore good to bring legislation into line with this social development. This legislative proposal provides for such publications to be placed in the electronic publications of the local authorities, so that uniform rules apply. The advantage of this is that these publications can be found better and also remain more accessible if the house-to-house magazine has already been thrown away. This creates a greater reach for a larger group of people. That is an important point; a number of groups have also noted it. It is precisely in this digital age that we must prevent people from dying in the information and no longer know where to find it. People who, due to a visual limitation, cannot read the homepages can often read electronic publications with electronic tools. In addition, anyone with a MyGovernment account will receive an email when a government publication is published that relates to their own immediate living environment. One can opt out of this, but interested parties are not forced to look for relevant publications of the municipality, the province, the waterboard or the Empire. It is also arranged that the inspection of the documents takes place both electronically and physically at a government site. The proposal also has a relationship with the Environment Act. Mr Crone said the same thing. Under the Spatial Planning Act, land use plans have their own rules for publication, with their own infrastructure. These announcements cannot yet be included in the attention service of Posts about your neighborhood. Under the Environmental Act, a Digital System Environment Act (DSO) is built, whereby the decisions are suitable for publication in the publications of the various governments and can therefore also be taken into account in the attention. That's a big advantage. Mr. Chairman. This proposal concerns not only the method of publication, but also the thinking behind it. This is, in fact, the inclusion and relationship between the government and its citizens. The report by the Remkes State Commission, Low thresholds, high dikes, has just been mentioned. It also pointed out this and pointed out that there were a number of problems. The way in which the government communicates and the way in which the citizen feels known by the government and feels that he is well informed at this time of huge information flows are important points. I have said before that one of my mottos is: 'Leave no man' or 'woman'; at that time they did not know that, but nowadays I would say 'behind'. We, as a government, are responsible for all citizens, including those who are struggling to get along at this time. This is a subject that I am personally aware of and which I deal with every day with our civil servants and with all kinds of civil society organisations. I'll say something about that in a minute. It's a subject that lives. A lot of people have experiences and opinions about it. I am glad that it is getting a lot of attention in this Chamber, but also in the House of Representatives. From the digital inclusion you can look at this bill in two ways. One: what are the consequences of the transition? Who are you gonna lose and who are you gonna get? And besides, do you reach groups with the bill that you didn't reach before? 'Cause that's kind of interesting. Digitisation also offers opportunities. The proposal significantly improves the accessibility of official government publications, by finding one place and the unsolicited attention. What you didn't know you didn't know back in the day, you're actually being presented. The information is thus actively brought to the attention of a larger group of people. Municipalities are also asked to provide information in a different way. The way in which can differ; we like to leave that to the local authorities. It may depend on local circumstances and on the target group. If a street is broken up, besides a message in the city newspaper, a message can also be delivered in the mailboxes of the residents concerned in that street. That doesn't stand in the way of this law. It is therefore not a "one size fits all" approach in this respect, but it complements the existing instruments. These additional custom messages can reach the people who are not already reading door-to-door magazines or have a sticker on the mailbox, who cannot read due to a visual limitation or who will not be connected to the attention service. The question is: is this proposal enough for people for whom society is already sufficiently complicated, so for the people mentioned in the Remkes Committee's report? I would like to point out that the primary purpose of this bill is to make official government publications more accessible. These publications are part of our democracy and offer citizens the opportunity to exercise their democratic rights as a participation, objection and profession. As I have said, I believe that this proposal for accessibility is an important improvement. This is not related to the content of the publications. The content of these messages can sometimes be improved, well, sometimes, which can still be improved very often. This can be done by making the information more understandable so that people realize sooner and become clear that they need to take action if they want to exert influence and change something. As part of the implementation of this bill, I also encourage governments to publish clear texts. There is still much room for improvement in this area. My experience is that it is often easier for officials to write difficult texts than the other way around. It's an art to write simple texts. We are now training civil servants to write easily, including in local authorities. That's not easy. Put a few specialists together, no matter in which field, and then have their text read to any citizen. The chances of someone understanding it are extremely small. And precisely because we, as a government that has an inclusive task of 'everyone belongs', we must realise that we must be accessible to that citizen in any form. Mr Verkerk has already mentioned it: when we talk about a group of 2.5 million people on a population of over 17 million people, we really have a mission to do. Of course in the front, a lot has to be done about that. But there will always be people who can't read and write. For those people too, we must have our instruments in order. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the questions raised by Members. Mr van Hattem wondered what was the connection of the Digital Government Decision with this law. He actually said: I therefore understand that the draft decision on digital government regulates the frameworks for information security and data processing. That is also a basis for processing the data for MyGovernment. The processing of the email address for the e-mailing of the law we are discussing today is therefore also regulated in that decision. It is expected that both the law we are dealing with today, the Electronic Publications Act, as well as the Digital Government Decision and the Digital Government Act will indeed need to be dealt with in this Chamber; I look forward to that coming into force on January 1, 2021, so at the same time. Both laws and the decision must then enter into force. In practice, therefore, there is no problem with the combination of these two legislative pathways. Mr Van Hattem also asked if I could explain why the legal basis is sufficient to actually use e-mail addresses previously made available for something else with retroactive effect. That is a logical question in itself. I can say that Article 20 of the Publication Act has created an explicit formal legal basis. This is sufficient ground for this article on the basis of the GDPR. There is therefore no need for the consent of the parties concerned, given the great importance of the awareness and accessibility of public publications. It's just that there are a lot of thresholds to actively sign up for. So you get it once, and if you don't want to, because your mailbox fills up too fast or because you don't want to know, there is an active choice not to want to know. This possibility of withdrawal is therefore always open to any citizen. That's the so-called opt-out system. So I certainly think it is acceptable, even after that GDPR test, to do so in this way. At worst, someone gets an e-mail one time he never wants to see again, and then he can just unsubscribe. This is very simple, and citizens are reminded of it. In other words: if we did not do so, we would never be higher than the current range. Of course, we often compare what we did analogly with what is going to happen now, but that analogue range was in practice much lower than we all thought. We all did the right thing, governments published in house-to-house magazines, but hardly anyone read it. This system, the progress made by Mrs Gerkens and Mr Dittrich's revolution, offers us the opportunity to make a move forward, to guarantee the citizen's involvement, but very precise and tailor-made, namely only with those things that you have indicated in advance that you want to know. I'll send it to you. That makes the interaction more important. Then we prevent or reduce the chance that people say: things happen here that we don't know about at all; how can that happen? Mrs Gerkens rightly called for attention to be paid to the accessibility of government websites. I've been to the Bartiméus Foundation. I got a demonstration there from someone who's visually impaired. That made a big impression on me, because it was just a maze. That was someone who was partially sighted, but we've all had the experience... that doesn't necessarily have to be at a government website... that you're on a website and you're thinking, where's the logic here, why do I have to click three times, I'm three times wrong, do I have to go back three times? That gives a lot of annoyance and a lot of irritation. Some people quit. So we have a duty to simply insert that intuitive into sites. We also do this as a government by working with panels where we ask people to navigate on that site. They get a specific assignment and then we see how these people bump through that site. At a good site you get to your end point very quickly, within a few clicks, where you need to be. On a bad site you turn rounds, you pull off, you get angry and eventually you don't get what you would want. Our implementation organisations are working on this on a daily basis. They do that in a dynamic environment, I must add, because there are few sites that are static and never change. So these sites always get new applications. With these kind of teams, we try to raise these sites to a higher level. We have to do that every day. In addition, you should not sit back and say: we do that once and then it is true. No, this calls for a different attitude. Basically, the government has to move around in the citizen. What is the route that the citizen is going through? How does he or she experience that and what does he run into? In this context, Mrs Gerkens mentioned the example of a kind of standards that exist on sites. She asked if we could not ensure that the site of the municipality of Amsterdam is the same as the site of the municipality of Etten-Leur. Citizens rarely live in two municipalities at once, but I understand the underlying idea. If you get it one way and it works well, why can't you use it on the other? In practice, municipalities do indeed look at the good examples of others, by using agencies or developing things themselves. But all this is still based on the idea of the responsibility of the municipality. Now we value that very much, but at the same time we see that it goes well in some places and lags behind others. So it would help to add those standard elements. That is why we are currently supporting a project to create standard elements for the construction of government websites. That has a very nice accessible, immediately clear name: NL Design System. There's still room for improvement, I'd say. User Central supports this with the network to allow governments to use standards in the construction of websites. This is done from an advisory role. They say, "We will help you to make it better." That's why the government does that. At the same time, attention has also been paid to such issues as, by 23 September, all existing public sector websites must comply with the Temporary Decision on digital access by means of an accessibility statement. That zero measurement of the Foundation Accessibility, which I regularly contact, was not very good. It showed that one in three websites met. That was in the summer of 2019. So that zero reading was done a year ago. At the moment the helpdesk Digitaccesselijk.nl is active. This helps governments to make their websites and apps accessible. I have written to the congregations that they must meet that requirement. That's a kicked system. Here is the idea of the root and the stick. The municipality itself must want to do well, because it scores well on those lists, but we must also address our local authorities if they are left behind. There have also been road shows in the country to inform officials about digital accessibility. Right now, due to the circumstances, there are online webinars. So these activities continue. We have said: you must comply, you must take action, we will then see if you comply. On September 23rd of this year we will take stock of the situation. I think it is so important that I am willing to inform the Chambers about the state of affairs at the time. I am very much in favour of subsidiarity and I have confidence in the local authorities, but when it turns out, after many times I have alerted them, that a number of government organisations, including the government, are not adequate, I think I can address them from my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u27	I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment. I notice that he has picked up this theme and feels involved. I'm glad to hear that. I should therefore like to welcome this commitment and await it. I hope that on 23 September the score will be something of: 90% good and 10% still have to get a very big root. I'd like to take a little bit back to what you said before about standardisation. There are two approaches to standardisation, namely the use of standards, so that interoperability is always sufficient. I was actually referring to some sort of standardisation in the structure, the accessibility of the website, because people do surf to two municipalities. Let me give you the following example. I live in the municipality of Haarlem. When my mother died, I had some things to take care of in the municipality of Bussum. I had to reinvent the wheel all over again. I understand that there is a difficulty there, which is also good for the Secretary of State because the autonomy of municipalities is high. But I also hear that there is now some room in the world for this idea, because there might be a sensible element behind it. I hope the Secretary of State wants to be tough on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u28	That's where you'll find me entirely by your side. I also believe very strongly in the application of innovations. These routes are now being started as Home Affairs together with local authorities. This can be in the context of services or due to the corona age, which means that you have to work in a different way. By sharing those good examples you show that it can also be different. That's different than hitting the stick, 'cause I'd rather not. Last week I had the experience that I had to look up something I will not mention the municipality, but then you know which municipality it is and thought: why don't I get to where I should be very quickly? I'm not a digibeet. I may not be an expert either, but I'm just a civilian. Then I thought: I just want certain information; why can't I find it? I think we can do better than that. Mr Verkerk has just said something about it. It does not just have to be in the form of text. We're all very visual. With today's technique, you can certainly make a different success of that. I was talking about Mr Verkerk. Mr Verkerk and Mr Dittrich asked a number of questions on inclusion in particular. Mr Dittrich wondered whether the multiannual plan "Together for a skilled Netherlands: follow-up approach to low literacy 2020-2024" and the action plan "Tel mee met Taal" paid sufficient attention to people with bicultural backgrounds for whom Dutch is not the first language. Is there sufficient diversity among those who design the programmes? How's this going in practice? Both in the plan Working together for a skilled Netherlands as in Direct Clear... It is immediately clear that the action programme we have put in place to get a thousand standard government letters through the mill in the first year. This is done with the help of language ambassadors. These are people who really know what it's like to be dealing with difficult lyrics. They can convert these texts into understandable texts. With Stichting Lezen & Schrijven and Stichting ABC, we use the field of work, the target group, to force and help the government to do things more easily. In other words: you get a letter that says something and if you don't understand it right away, that letter is not good. Many language ambassadors also have a bicultural background. So these people also look at it with those glasses and from that experience. This helps. I've spoken to some of those people. Anyone who has had contact with people from that target group knows that there is still a kind of taboo to this. You don't see low or illiteracy in people. You can hide this very well, but still you're in some sort of isolation when you can't read and write. These people often come to the conclusion at a later age, or the revelation, that they want to talk about it and help other people. We are extremely pleased that these people are part of our project, because these are our best ambassadors. We can't really miss these experts in this whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u29	In fact, I would like to ask the Secretary of State the same question that was raised just now in the course of the interrupting debate. We see precisely that group with a bicultural background and a linguistic disadvantage that very many municipalities do not enforce the language requirement, whereas it has been used from the government as an instrument to overcome those language disadvantages in, among other things, that target group. How does the Secretary of State look at the fact that many municipalities do not actually enforce that law, because they do not use the penalty mechanism to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u30	I say to Mr Van Hattem that I am not a specialist in this. It's not my direct portfolio either, but what I do know is this: language is everything. If we don't teach newcomers the language, if they don't learn the language themselves, they can't be a good part of society. For example, it is about government publications, but it is also about the whole social movement. So language is just really essential in everything we do. I do not have the specific examples you claim to have, so I must remain guilty for a while if there are many municipalities that do not do so in practice. But the other way round I would like to say that this is so important that we must take this extremely seriously. If you don't master the language, it really causes a lot of problems, not only for yourself, but also for your children and others. We can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u31	I certainly agree with the Secretary of State. Language is essential for communication. At the same time, I think that many municipalities that are now working on such projects should also have the knife cut from both sides. On the one hand, they can indeed take up projects to facilitate communication from the public authorities. Do that; that's better for everyone. But on the other hand, those who really have a language disadvantage and who can be expected to invest a bit in themselves must take the responsibility to make that investment in the field of language themselves. I have to say honestly: that lies with the Social Affairs portfolio, so that is indeed a more complex piece of matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u32	Yes. In addition, there is always a group that remains a problem, even in the future. That is what Mr Verkerk was talking about. These people are less linguistic or not linguistic and therefore sometimes less digital, but not always. There's a relationship between them, but if you work with pictures, you can help the less linguistics in a different way, using digitalization. But it's true: it's en-and. It's coming from both sides. The government has an obligation to communicate clearly and easily and there is really something to do. On the other hand, people who are not skilled in the language may also expect them to make efforts to get that skill. In this context, I would like to mention the many volunteers who make daily efforts to get people to a higher language level. I think both elements are indispensable. Mr Dittrich referred to the Read & Writing Foundation, which reported that 2.5 million people have difficulty with language. That is also the data we are working with. Those people often have problems with digitalization as well. It runs together all the time. He also referred to the gorge and Remkes. This is actually a nice interplay of a number of ministries working together in this area. We just mentioned the Ministry of SZW and the language requirements. But it's also about OCW. The program Tel along with Language is really drawn by OCW. VWS and BZK also work together from our different backgrounds and invest in common programs to prevent breeding and simply use the resources in a good way. There we also look very closely at the different target groups, because one target group can be approached in a different way than the other. The municipalities also play a very important role in this, because they can often see from the basis where the problems lie and how they can be dealt with. In part, we still lack a kind of monitoring system to see what numbers are involved. Who is less linguistic and how do you find out? That's pretty much one thing. I do see those language ambassadors who sort of came out of the closet. That's what it often feels like to these people. There's a lot of shame around it. They tell a story that very often the people in their immediate vicinity didn't even know. They can help by their own experience to find the target group and lower the thresholds. That is the experience I have, among others with people from the Lezen & Writing Foundation. So it's not just about resources. It is also about creating a climate in which we move from both sides towards each other. By communicating more clearly you lower the threshold to understand government language and at the same time help people to get to a higher level. I think that's the only way we can and should go. Mr Verkerk asked how the programme is being evaluated. There was also the question of whether this programme has really had an effect and led to a trend break. Over the next five years, the Ministry of OCW will conduct research into the results of the lines of action and efforts of the Tel programme with Language, which we as a BZK also participate in. A mid-term evaluation will be carried out in 2022. Where necessary, that programme shall be updated on the basis of this evaluation. At the same time, municipal regional plans are also evaluated annually for objectives and results achieved. That national monitor is therefore planned for 2022; then it will start. The aim is then to have a view in 2024 or that has led to a trend break. I think it's just that that's my feeling that you can see that it's already having effects, but you can't quite quantify that yet. That's what's missing. Measuring is knowing; that also applies here. So we really have to make a move in this area. We also expect that, from 2022 onwards, we will be able to present aggregated figures on how many people in which municipalities have participated in courses. That, I believe, is also the time when you can adjust to that. Then you can also see what the trends are and where we have to do things differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u33	What do you expect when you look at the plans contained in that programme at the moment? I told you before that it seems like a very nice program, but we now have 2.5 million and we go back to 2.2 million and then to 2 million. Can you give any order of magnitude or any expectation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u34	Contrary to my belief that what we are doing now is the right direction and leads to results, I can unfortunately really quantify on the basis of nothing where that leads now. That is exactly why we need to do this now, because that is what we want. The CPB and the SCP write about it and everywhere it comes back: a new gap is emerging in society. There are people who can easily compete in the new technologies and new opportunities. They grow up with it; that's the new generation. Another group is left behind. So the wedge is getting bigger and bigger. That is of course something that Remkes also points out in his report: we have to find an answer to that. So when everyone was analog, the difference was much smaller. Now you see that blowing out. So, no, as a result of your question, I cannot indicate specifically where we are over a number of years and whether we will be at 2 million, also because, of course, the population is also growing and because the composition of the population is also changing. So you really need to look deeper through it. But I also think it is important to have that data. We can make policies, but if we can't measure policy and we can't see what the effect is, we'll probably get some comments from the Court of Auditors. I believe that we should also be prepared to take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u35	Can you share the evaluation data with this Chamber in 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u36	Sure, sure. This really is a long-term trajectory. This needs to be further developed in the coming years. More and more parties need to contribute to it. I think it's really nice that you're seeing participation here, too. Maybe that's good to tell. We started the Alliance Digital Collaboration with a number of companies. The idea is that the citizen of ours is the client of that company. They're the same people. They also run into the problem that they have a lot of people on the phone because their site is not clear enough and people do not know where they can go. We said, "We're gonna work together and we're gonna find that vulnerable target group together." We've made tablets available for people who are in a vulnerable position this week, but also before. You can see that because of this new technology that people can not only have better contact, but also come from social isolation. This is also a problem that may not seem to have anything to do with it, but it has consequences for how people experience their well-being. These are fine initiatives in which private parties, large companies, large sponsors, government and civil society organisations join forces, because this really is not just something of the government, but of the whole of society. I really hope that this issue will remain prominently on the agenda in the coming years and that the Chambers will pay a lot of attention to it, just like today, because that is the best guarantee that we can bring down the numbers of low-literate and low-ranking people. Mr Verkerk appointed a number of groups and said that there may also be a group that is not motivated, who does not yet want help or has a limited learning capacity. That is a complex problem, that is absolutely true. That might go a lot further than what he mentioned. Those are often people who are literally unreachable. He asked what possibilities I see to make this group as small as possible, to achieve those goals. In addition to this Alliance Digital Living together in the past year, we have created Digital Government Information Points for the first time. I've been visiting one of those information points with the King over the past year. We've talked to people who come there. The nice thing is that those information points are arranged in a classic way, namely analogue; you can go somewhere, to a window, to people, you can look someone in the eye, and then you will be helped on your way on the digital highway. And if you've forgotten or think the next day, I don't know what's going on, you can just come back. There's no one who gets angry or irritated. You're not gonna be in a queue, but you're just gonna get helped. That's how you try to help people. The nice thing is that people who have been helped there, as volunteers afterwards, will help with such an information point, as an experienced expert. You're also trying to make this have a social effect. In the past year 25 information points have been opened. This year we want about 60 to be opened, so we're gonna expand considerably, so that in 2021 we have a nationwide coverage network of places for questions about business with the government, the Tax Administration, the UWV, even a legal office, because law firms join in and say they're gonna sit there, literally offering people a very low-threshold window. There is also a café, where you can have a cup of coffee. You can even make that mobile or out-of-arms and go to neighbourhoods where an above-average target group has a complex problem, to see if you can help those people. Often it can lower the threshold a little, if people feel that they are not the only ones, as a citizen, but that they are in a boat with several people. Mr Verkerk had a very good suggestion, and we are already working on it, namely to look more at images and not just to think in lyrics. As a government in the form that people often think, namely in images. That's definitely a way to help low-lying people. Symbols work at Schiphol Airport, at a station and therefore also in government communication, not in all situations, but in basic guidance of people on the websites. People often work very intuitively there. The Direct Clear campaign we started is working with User Central. That is a point where, as a government, we see how the user or the citizen experiences his routes. An existing model bench, with uniform symbols, you could say, is used in the way we work as a government. It is absolutely true that there are still a lot of opportunities and that we still have a lot to do about it. I've already said something about the number of low-lettereds. So we just have to really measure that and then we have to come to conclusions. I also liked the group Mr Verkerk mentioned. That's a group not to be underestimated. This is about the group of people who do have a problem, but think: "I'm not going to the municipality or call some number. I go to my granddaughter, or my grandson, or my neighbor or neighbor. Then I say I have a problem and I ask if they can help me." That's a very large group. They're asking for help from volunteers. They are not visible, because it is often a one-on-one relationship. But what do we do now? For example, I am now working with Princess Laurentien on a journey with children who are working to help their own grandparents become digitally skilled. It's really nice to see kids think very creatively about how they can do that. The advantage of that is that it is a familiar environment. Nowadays it is also important that you are not fooled, but that you receive honest advice and answer. The Council of Children has now taken that up and started to work on it. So you get solidarity between generations, just by exchanging knowledge. I sometimes have at home that my kids tell me how some app I've never heard of works. That'll be one generation. But this is about two generations. So you have to imagine something like that. We have currently collected 6,000 laptops and tablets from the Alliance Digital Collaboration initiative, which were left over by government organisations and companies. They've refurbished it, as they call it, either cleaned it, erased it from data. They'll be extradited. It is very nice to see how enthusiastic these people are now working on the elderly target group, who are forced to be in social isolation as a result of corona, literally opening up a world of new opportunities for them. It's really funny to see that people from 80-plus work with a tablet for the first time and say: that's actually really nice. That's what we want. If people like things, they'll learn more and then they'll move on. Mr Dittrich made another...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u37	I have a question for the Secretary of State. You give a very nice example of children teaching their grandparents something. I think you can give us some other fine examples. You're good at your story with those kinds of examples. Is this also growing towards a policy in this vein, namely that the debate should be held in all the places where it should be discussed? Because it's just so many facets. So is this an example that is actually representative of everything that is happening, or is this just one of the few examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u38	I really think it's the first. You see that all kinds of things happen, often from some kind of social issues. There are all kinds of organizations. Some of them have already been discussed, such as Accessibility, Bartiméus, Reading & Writing, Number 5 Foundation and Alliance Digital Collaboration. Actually, all the examples are good. They're coming from somewhere. There are parties who say: we see a problem and are going to do something about it. They may all start differently, but they have a common goal. I've seen some of them now. What we are doing, including from BZK, is supporting such initiatives wherever possible. Thanks to this Alliance Digital Collaboration a large number of companies have now agreed to participate, also financially you get a kind of oil spill effect. I really like that. I believe you will achieve much more if the government cooperates with civil society organisations. There's still so much we want to do. There are still so many opportunities. If I compare it to two years ago, we're way ahead. So this isn't just anything, just one example. No, I can come here all afternoon and talk about what we all do in this area, not only from the government, but also with civil society organisations and between generations. Education plays a role in this and care plays a role in it. With COOVID-19, you can see that healthcare institutions are really starting to think: "What does that mean for us? Shouldn't we be doing a lot more in this area? Can you do day-to-day spending digitally?" Yeah, you can. It doesn't just have to be digital, but you can use it as a supplement. I was at a health care facility yesterday where they said we're going to do things really differently. Through covid we have had a kind of social experiment that has shown that digitisation is even more important than some people thought. So it's not a question of "digitisation or not"? Digitisation is here. We must ensure that vulnerable people are able to stay on that path as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u39	Secretary of State, how much longer do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u40	I'm thinking maybe ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u41	Then let's keep it at a maximum of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u42	I believe I am expected across the street for a debate of accountability, so I will continue. Mr Dittrich asked a number of questions about local and regional media. I can only say that these media play a very important role and that we must ensure, also in the rule of law in which we live, that they can play a role. That's different from the fact that the government should maintain these magazines by paying for ads, which may not be functional anymore. So this also requires magazines to collect and compensate for the loss of advertising revenue in a different way. I also see examples that this can, quite frankly, also be done in my own environment. But I do see the risk of the delay lurking in front of the local media. I can't deny that, but that's another thing to say: we're not going to file this law, because we need to maintain that media. I don't hear you saying that either, but the tension is on. On 10 March, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was I, asked for an opinion from the Council for Public Administration and the Council for Culture. This request for advice is based on a fundamental analysis of the public values and democratic function of the media and the provision of news at local level. This opinion is expected to be published in October this year. I think it would be good to wait for that advice and discuss it, because it affects this bill, but at the same time has a much broader effect. Mr Dittrich also asked whether the evaluation that I promised the House of Representatives would address the relationship between reduced advertising revenue and the quality of the media functions that the Remkes Committee has previously described. I have indeed indicated to the House of Representatives that, as far as I am concerned, there is room for a broad evaluation. I can still imagine that the evaluation will consider to what extent municipalities will still use home-to-home magazines after this law has been introduced and what the impact of this law will be. Of course, there are a lot of municipalities that are not doing it anymore. I just mentioned them: there are 100, with 7 million inhabitants. I also think that the question put by Mr Dittrich goes much wider than the evaluation of this bill. So perhaps it is an idea to include this in the request for advice with the Culture Council and the Public Administration Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u43	Let me get this straight. Does this mean that you are going to discuss this with the Culture Council in order to involve it? Is that what I heard right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u44	There is already a question, but it has flown more from the point of view of the situation, the findings and the observation: the observation that local media are having a hard time. This question was put to the ROB and the Culture Council in March. I don't know if this is all there right now. I would like to take a look at that and then we could add this element to it. I will ask whether they can and whether they want to take this with them, so that it can also be looked at in the evaluation in October. I would like to make that commitment, as co-contractor, to add this element to it, as long as it is not already in it. But I should check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u45	Would you like to report that to the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u46	Yeah, of course there's gonna be... I assume so, but I'll have to ask the Secretary of State. If that report becomes available, we expect it to be sent to the Chambers in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u47	Yes, but I mean: are you extending the mandate to the Culture Council to include this subject? Do you want to see if it's in there, and if it's not in there, will you promise to get it in? I would very much like you to let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u48	Yeah, I want to do that. That is a promise. Finally, a number of other questions. Mr Verkerk, and when I say 'Mr Verkerk', I say immediately: and the groups of the PvdA and the CDA wondered how it was ensured that there would be a place for physical monitoring. I've said something about that before. At present, local authorities already have an obligation to submit documents for inspection, for example in the case of participation procedures. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. This bill adds the digital road to that. There is a transitional period so that provinces and municipalities can organise it. The physical tervision is thus not replaced by a digital, but is expanded with a digital. There is therefore no new threshold. In fact, in some cases the possibility to see physical pieces may also be practical. I imagine you want to see large building permits, construction drawings, and so on physically. Well, you can still do that. Mr Crone asked a question about the Quality Assurance Act for Building, the Environment Act and the procedure that went through here in the Upper Chamber on that point. I've been getting a little bit of that from a short distance. I know that this has been discussed at length. There is, in a way, a coincidence with this bill. That's correct. That's what's in Section 4.22. His question is: can the entry into force of this article be suspended? I can assure you that the Quality Assurance for Building Act will not enter into force before the Environment Act, as the Minister of State promised earlier. The Minister of BZK will come back to this further, as you yourself referred to when answering questions. She reported that, as I understood from you, it will come not before the summer, but after the summer. So I admit that I also give you the point that you have raised here and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will reply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u49	So I guess we're on the same page. This Electronic Publications Act is published in the Official Journal at some point. I know how it works now. Then this article will be in effect unless we say it is not in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u51	This is legally complicated. Perhaps you could send a note on this, because we need to know that the article is still standing, rather than being deleted. I'm just saying this to avoid making any legal mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u52	Yes. As the Minister for the Interior has promised you to answer a number of questions, I think it is a good thing, but that is the most practical way to take this question with me, as you are now asking him, with the idea that we agree that there should be no legal interference here and that there should be no unintended effects, but that it should be properly regulated legally. You will then be informed of this in the reply of the Minister for the Interior immediately after the summer. So I'll take that point with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u53	There's a practical problem here. If we have to vote on this law next week or if it becomes a hammer piece, then this law goes its own way, and then there is a vacuum because we have deleted something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u54	Okay. So you want an answer before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u55	Maybe you could bring this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u56	Okay, I can promise. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u57	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u58	That brings me to the end of my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I inform Members that, in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then put it on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u60	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. In the first term, I understood that the pathways of this law and the Digital Government Act coincide. This means that this law cannot enter into force if the Digital Government Act is not adopted. The parties that voted for the Digital Government Act in the Lower House have no majority in this Chamber. So it is not politically self-evident that the Digital Government Act is simply going to make it in this house. I'd still like to ask the Secretary of State what it means to this law if the Digital Government Act is fired. Is this law gonna come to an end? Is there going to be another route for this law? Will certain parts of this law perhaps come into force in a different way? Is there any prospect of that? Because there are, of course, a lot of things in this law that are very useful in themselves. Given the easy findability of pieces and the standardisation, there is a bit of progress. It would be a shame if that were to remain and if the Digital Government Act, which our group has very serious reservations about, were to get in the way of doing so. The same goes for the question I had asked about a digital login. Does that include this law? If that Digital Government Act is there and people want to use the service to receive announcements, do they need that digital login tool proposed in the Digital Government Act? Then there's the one-time e-mail. The Secretary of State has clearly explained that it should be possible on the basis of privacy and GDPR in itself, but I am still asking how public opinion is going to experience it when people who are not aware that they have signed up for a particular service suddenly get the message: you have been signed up for notices at once. Isn't that perceived as a form of spam? Is there also an idea of public communication, because we are talking about this today, so that it does not lead to serious misunderstandings? Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for answering our questions, for the way in which he has tried to really deal with them in substance. He has also outlined the beautiful background to this law. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to share with the First Chamber the evaluation of the "Working together" programme for the period 2020-2022, so that we can discuss this with each other if necessary. I congratulate the Secretary of State on the Digital Government information point, because I think this is a wonderful initiative. It's growing huge, too. The Secretary of State wants to do much more to communicate through images, but will that also be a separate track, alongside the other tracks? Just when it becomes a separate track, I think that the total of the possibilities offered by the government is particularly good. The Secretary of State is also actively working for the group that needs help, or who is looking for help from family members, friends and others. Thank you for that, too. I asked the Secretary of State about the size of those three groups. I understand that's difficult, but maybe he can try again. I have also asked the Secretary of State, but perhaps I did not hear the answer correctly, when he thinks he is done with the inventory of the standard texts and when they are written in plain language. Maybe he can share that with this room, too. Mr. Chairman. That's it. What I said and asked for in second term was also done on behalf of the CDA and the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u63	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u64	I'd like a five-minute suspension, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u65	Then we'll suspend until 3:59.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u66	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their second-term input and the supplementary questions that have been asked. Let me start with Mr Van Hattem. He did an exercise on how things are gonna work out here. We may all be able to predict, but that doesn't make much sense. Let me say what legal reality is in a scenario as it might appear. This law may enter into force in any case. If necessary, I will split the Digital Government decision and place the use of an e-mail address in the current decision Processing personal data GDI. I can give that another place, so that element still has legal force. This is without prejudice to what happens to the Digital Government Act and its decisions. There is no need for a digital login. That in answer to the question whether e-mailing requires that. No, it's not. You ask whether e-mailing can be experienced as spam by citizens. That's almost a personal question. It's possible. I sometimes have the idea that I get spam from organizations in the e-mail or in the mail. But if you get a letter from the municipality stating that your passport needs to be renewed, you can experience it as spam or you can experience it as a service. That's just the way you look at it. I'd love to do the last one. And if you ever think it's spam and want out, you can just do it. If you think it's useful, you have an attention service that you don't have to do anything for and which at the same time you get all the information very targeted. I don't think that's gonna cause any further problems. Mr Verkerk wondered whether the image would become a separate track. It is true that you look at those images in a different way, because it is a very different way of communicating. But what we're actually doing with everything the government is trying to do in the field of communication is to see what the target group is and what instruments are best suited to it. Those can be simple texts or images. This mix is used from the integral thinking, focused on the user. It may be that a particular target group needs to be controlled mainly with images, but it is not a separate track, an image trail. Of course, people are working on that image bank, but we are trying to use a mix of instruments according to the target group. Then Mr Verkerk asked when we were finished with the inventory of these Direct Clear texts. We started in October 2019 and have said that we want 1,000 texts within a year. We're already over 500 and I think we're gonna get that 1,000 easy. I think we're gonna get over it. It's a goal you set and it's not that it's solved with that, but it's quite a number of standard texts. Then we've done quite a lot in a year. It's a very enthusiastic club people who pick that up. Mr Crone has left. That is a pity, but it is all well recorded in the Acts. I promised him a letter, but I can also give the answer orally. That might work even faster. His question was: can it be ensured that Article 4.22 will enter into force later than the rest of this law? The answer to this is "yes', because Article 4.22 may be excluded when this law enters into force. In the event of a later royal decision, Article 4.22 may then enter into force. We can do that legally. That's how it's sealed off. I do not think I need to send any more letters on this subject, if this is further clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u68	You promised me a letter? Mr Crone is not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u69	We can all put it all on paper, just a little effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u70	That's very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u71	Then that's what we'll do. Mr Verkerk had another question about the groups. He almost gave the answer himself. I must remain guilty of the answer. As much as I can tell you exactly how big that group is, we can determine exactly how large those groups are in the categories that you have distinguished. Sometimes it's also a combination. We hope that the evaluation will give more insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u72	...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u73	Excuse me, Mr. Verkerk. It's not your fault. Can you press it one more time? I turned it on too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u74	And you want me to stand on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u75	Yes. You don't have to, but if you want to stay audible, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u76	He's doing it now. You indicated that the images are an integral part for you. I understand that. I trust that policy will simply succeed. At least it'll be much better. If we continue for two, three, four or five years now, how could you demonstrate to this Chamber that this policy has been successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u77	You can do that with measurements. You can assume a zero situation. Let's say that you did that a year ago... where you present people with letters and ask them the question: do you read this letter, what would you say it says? You can also do that in a situation where you have developed the use of images. Then the conclusion must be, at least I hope that this is the case, that the extent to which people understand what is said has increased. I think that's very easy to measure. The fun part is that I sent a letter with pictures of inclusion to the Chamber earlier. A letter of inquiry with pictures isn't very common, but it does help. It's not really the culture here, because we say everything in sentences with five extras, and at the end we think: what did it say again? I think that we can also set an example, for example here in Parliament, by communicating between the cabinet and the Chambers in this way, so that we can also take the use of pictures out of the taboo atmosphere. Pictures, yeah, they just help. I am very practical, so I think we should simply use all the things that help to bridge that gap. By the way, it's not that easy, because developing images that are unambiguous explainable is not a simple job. The people of Direct Clear and User Central are really doing this, also through testing. If people see such a picture, what are the answers and what association do they have with that picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u78	Perhaps you could try sending the letter to Mr Crone in visual language. Let me ask you a question. I'm not interested in you doing pre- and post-measurements. Of course, that's a wonderful opportunity. But I would like you to say, if we meet again in a debate on this in a number of years' time, that on the basis of these investigations or those measurements, I must simply say that the policy is working. I would like you to do something about this on the left or right, so that we can say in a few years' time: it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u79	I think I can easily commit to that. It also helps me by, for example, at the end of the year, when we have achieved the goal of making 1,000 standard letters easier, to another group, a kind of test panel, both variants, the old variant, which is then no longer used, and to have the new note read and then look at the percentage of increase in understanding among the people who read the letter. I find that interesting to know myself. I am convinced that this will have positive results, but measurement is known, even here. So I'd like to make a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u81	Then I'm gonna come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that next Tuesday we vote on the bill. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:20 p.m.
