ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius' question on behalf of the VVD to the Minister about the abuse of a maintainer at the beach of IJmuiden. For those who follow Question Time, I often get the question of why Members of Parliament are no longer given the time to ask a supplementary question. Question Time consists of questions in which the person who asks the questions has four minutes' speaking time and those who ask supplementary questions have half a minute's speaking time. But hardly anyone keeps to that, so I have to cut off some of the speakers, otherwise it will all end. I hope people understand that, too. I call Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, a boa was so badly assaulted that he had to go to the hospital. He and his colleagues were attacked on the beach of IJmuiden by a group of young people. When I saw the footage, I was literally shaking with anger. What are you thinking of raging like a bunch of hyenas and using force against people who are in the front row for our safety and our health? Mr. Chairman. Such objectionable and unacceptable behavior includes not only words of horror, but also actions, actions, and harsh punishments as far as the VVD is concerned. I shall therefore begin with the following question to the Minister. On the footage, the attackers are clearly visible. They're recognizable. Can the Minister indicate if all these guys have been arrested by now? Were they all arrested? Then I'm not just talking about the people who are attacking and attacking the boas, but also about the hitters around them, the people who are watching, who are laughing and filming. Did they all get caught? And have the parents of all the minors present been visited and addressed to their child's behavior? Mr. Chairman. These questions, of course, are not just about this terrible event last Thursday, because this is not the first time that boas have been attacked and have no opportunity to defend themselves. On Easter day twelve more boas were beaten and kicked by a group that did not respect the corona rules. And there are many more examples. We ask boas to come on our behalf in situations where they have a great chance of becoming victims of violence. As far as the VVD is concerned, they must have the means to defend themselves so that they can do their job as safely as possible. For the VVD, this means that boas that have to maintain those rules in public space must also be provided with tools in the form of a baton and pepper spray. So I have one clear question to the Minister: is he prepared to make this possible in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	One moment, Mr. Chairman. The routine has started to rust a bit in the corona time. I'm sorry about that. I already got comments that my jacket was too small, so I apologize to all those present. Mr. Chairman. It is very good that this question is on the agenda and that Mrs Yesilgöz stresses once again that violence against aid workers and boas is not only unacceptable, but also really bad. There really is a lick-on-piece policy here. I made that clear at the beginning of the corona crisis, from the beginning of March, and that is clearly understood by the police and the public prosecutor. I can see that in the judiciary too, although it is completely independent. The law that makes violence against aid workers extra criminal is, thankfully, passed by your two chambers. Indeed, people who do this kind of thing can count on a severe punishment. On the individual case, I just want to say that arrests have now been made. I cannot make any further comments, but Mrs Yesilgöz will understand that. If requested, the police spokesperson could undoubtedly do so, but I have to stay out of it as Minister of Justice. I would like to briefly mention the following in the run-up to Mrs Yesilgöz's question. We are talking about so-called domain 1-boas, extraordinary investigative officers. They are used for surveillance in public space. The violence against boas really says something about the people who do and the society they apparently think they live in, but they don't. I understand very clearly the call of boas that their safety must not be compromised. At the start of the covid/corona crisis, I had intrusive discussions with police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, mayors and the National Security and Police Consultation, even yesterday. It is really important that the local authority triangle of mayor, chief officer and police ensure that the connection between police and boas is there immediately if there are incidents, but also that the use of boas takes place in such a way that, in principle, there is already a police presence in escalating situations. Furthermore, we are in conversation, at the request of the mayors. To explain this also to the people at home: the boas are employed by the municipalities. At the request of a number of mayors, I took over the talks with the unions last year to see how we can improve the safety of boas. Why is that? Because the law lays down the violence monopoly with our police and our armed forces. I have already discussed in detail with your Chamber that we really should have a very fundamental discussion if we were to say that boas should also be given that opportunity. Madam President. I'll be on the pepper spray in a minute. In any case, I'm looking for the three-stroke equipment with bodycams... the general experience, including with agents, is that bodycams work very de-escalatingly... the intensified cooperation between police and boas and finally the emergency button for boas on the portophone. We're gonna have a notebook meeting soon. I would then like to have the opportunity to present to the Chamber the dilemmas involved. Pepperspray has another problem, namely that research that we have done in another framework has shown that your pepperspray really needs to be used very focused, so not in group incidents. So that would not be a solution here either. However, I would like to have a quick conversation with your Chamber to critically examine whether the security measures that we are working with now still need to be supplemented. Then we can also, as far as I am concerned, have the fundamental debate on the monopoly of violence. I have a clear opinion on this, but let's have that discussion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	I want to start with the answer about the minors involved. I'd like to know if the parents have been approached and addressed to the behavior of their children. I would like to know whether rapid law has been applied and whether the underlying problem is being looked at. If you're 16, 17, or younger, and you're assaulting aid workers, that goes a long way. I think the Minister should sit up here. Then about the defense of boas. Boas' call for instruments to defend themselves is not new, but, of course, because of the current crisis, very urgent. In the context of the enforcement of the emergency regulation by the corona crisis we are currently in, boas really face even greater risks of aggression and violence. It is almost always about groups and they come in situations where warnings do not help and they have to pay heavy fines. This is not only about our safety, but also about our health. To be honest, I think that the Minister is very easy to ignore. I think that a theoretical discussion on a monopoly of violence is absolutely fine, but the practice now calls for action. This is happening now. The monopoly of violence is and remains with the government, also as enforcers, which are deployed by the government, can use their baton and pepper spray for their defense. The monopoly of violence is and remains with the government, even if we equip enforcers well to stand up for themselves and to defend ourselves. The VVD wants boas who have to maintain in potentially dangerous situations not to stand empty-handed or with an empty belt, as they themselves say. In the short term, for the summer, we want room for this, for enforcers who have had the right training. I'd love to talk to the minister about it, but we can't talk about it. Again, the practice now requires action. Is the Minister going to make sure that our boas can do their job as safely as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	I would like to pass the questions on to the police about the inherent case, but I cannot say much more about an individual case here than I have said. Quite clearly, the police are sitting and sitting on top of it. That is also apparent from the arrests that have been made. As a Chamber, you do not want me to interfere as Minister of Justice with what concrete measures are being taken, but at least I will pass on Mrs Yeşilgöz's questions. Then I'll get back to you on the basis of a letter from the police, or else you'll think: will the Chamber suddenly receive a letter from the police? So I'll make sure I do that along that road, because that's the right one. As far as the monopoly of violence is concerned, that is not a theoretical discussion. That is a very important discussion. Any incident involving enforcers or aid workers, such as ambulance workers, is too much for me. That is of great concern to me. Let's get that straight. That is why we have had this bill on the obstruction of aid workers. Luckily, that was accepted. But the question of whether you are going to give the monopoly of violence to other groups also raises questions about additional training. Then there are also issues about liability. I've had extensive discussions with the mayors in the National Security and Police Consultation, as well as with your Chamber. There are mayors, including large cities, who say very clearly that we should not do that. They think that we should improve the equipment in terms of bodycams and the like, as they have already done in Zaanstad and Leiden, among others. There's an exception rule for the gummy bat. Mayors who, together with the Public Prosecutor and the police, believe that there is a circumstance which requires that the gummy bat be made available, may make the request. That is generally accepted. But otherwise, that's a very fundamental non-theoretic discussion, because you're gonna hurt people. I even hear different sounds from the field itself about whether or not they want those weapons. But again, I would like to have that discussion again on 8 June on the basis of a letter with your Chamber. We did that last year, but as far as I'm concerned, we're gonna do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	I think it's way too late. Maintainers are now being deployed by us in situations where they face violence. We are creating this situation with each other now, but we do not take responsibility for giving them the tools to defend themselves. I am happy to discuss this several times, but the practice outside is now in progress and is crucial. That is why we need to take action now. There are also a lot of mayors who say for their officials: get pepper spray, get a baton, because that's what these people need. So I don't want to talk about this endlessly and watch boas deal with violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	That is therefore completely ignorant of what I have just said, namely that the mayors, who are apparently referred to here, can, together with the chief officer and the police, apply for authorisation of the baton anyway. That has also happened a number of times. That's one. Secondly, I have already said in the introductory text, but I repeat that I am referring to the fact that in the triangle, i.e. on the spot, it is settled that the police are immediately on the spot if there is anything and that there are safety equipment available to guarantee the safety of the boas. Eventually, I have to say that the police are there for the stakes in places where there is unrest and that sort of thing. That's not what boas are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	I see Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Buitenweg, Mrs Van Brenk, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mrs Kuik, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Dam for interruptions. Okay, first Mr. Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	Of course, we all hate what happened in IJmuiden and that special investigators are being harassed, so that they cannot safely do their job. So it is good that we are having this discussion. My question to the Minister is whether it is desirable that the decision on whether or not to use a baton should be taken locally. Wouldn't it be much better if there were uniform national rules about that? As far as we are concerned, this is desirable because anyone we ask for rules to be enforced must be able to defend themselves if they are being harassed because they are monitoring compliance with rules. What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	There's a Wet Weapons and Ammo. It is quite strict about the use of the force monopoly by the government. The moment we want to change that, we should not do it locally. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. Firstly, the Chamber and I should then consider whether we think that should be done and how that should be done. We had that discussion last year. I've said that before. I'd really like to do that again. That's not a problem at all. Another thing is that the request may be made locally. There should be no misunderstanding about that. For example, it happened in Amsterdam with regard to the tram. There it was argued that when the tram runs, is closed and such and something happens, there must be a possibility to do something with such a gummistok. That's been looked into, and it's been completely investigated. It was said then that this is a situation in which that should apply. So it is not the case that that is decided, because that is what I ultimately decide. In this sense, it is still decided centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	The footage of that abuse is indeed terrible. The only good thing about such a horrible video is that you can hope that those responsible are quickly arrested and punished. My question to the Minister is as follows. If we ask people to carry out police duties, why do we not choose to give them police training, to give them police equipment and to make them part of the police organisation? Because that's how they're controlled by the police. Why doesn't the Minister choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	The training requirements of a boa are quite decent. I can mention them: knowledge of the legal rules, i.e. the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the preparation of a report, criminal jurisdictions fundamental rights, specialist knowledge of the APV, arrest techniques...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	Don't read everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	Well, it might not be a bad thing to mention that. It's also about violence control...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	... arrest and self-defense skills. It's a really good education. If at any point in time the Chamber thinks that it is necessary to examine whether we should actually turn boas into police, the point is that you are talking about a completely different training requirement when it comes to the use of force. That makes sense, because we are generally a very guaranteed rule of law. So we have to make sure that we get it right with each other. In the meantime, I keep repeating it, I see it as my responsibility to keep an eye on safety and to ensure that, if there are such incidents, I have a good conversation about it. I'll hear what happened and attract myself to where there's been a shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yes, but Mr Van Nispen's question because they only have two questions: why are they not included in the training? Yes, part of the police: that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u20	Then they should be given a different mission. Then they'll just be cops, but they're municipal enforcers. Let me put it this way: even in the case of other aid workers facing violence, we do not have the question of whether we should train them in such a way that they can use violence. It starts with socially unacceptable behaviour. Let us be very clear about that. If people have enforcement tasks, but do not congruate with what the police should do, I think that you can also set other training requirements. If you want higher or at least much more extensive training requirements, because one becomes a policeman, the discussion becomes: do you have to make everyone police? That's a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u21	Now we come to a rather essential point, namely the tasks of the boas. The violence against boas in unacceptable. I agree with the Minister. He says it says something about the people who do. But it also says something about us that those boas are in that position right now. Because 90% of the boas say they've had a lot more to do with violence since they've been passing fines. A large part of the boas say that they are being approached much more aggressively now that they have to pass fines in an era when the corona rules are completely unclear. It's something we should care about, isn't it? We're sending out the boas to enforce rules that are unclear. By issuing fines, they have enforcement tasks, while they do not have the means to enforce cases. What does the Minister say to the boas who complain about this or worry about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u22	By far the most fines in the corona crisis have so far been handed out by the police. I also think that's the right ratio, so to speak. Let me start with that. The second is that the most important thing is that boas, whether there is corona or not, and whether they should issue fines or not, can simply do their job in safety. That requires two things, as far as I'm concerned. The first is that they have the right means to stand in that safety. In addition, it is important that we stop people from showing unacceptable behavior. We can have another discussion about the lack of clarity of rules. What I generally get back on this, both from the security regions and from the services themselves, is that those rules are not perceived as unclear by the enforcers, nor by the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u23	We share the Minister's view that every aid worker must be able to do his job safely. But do we not have another more fundamental discussion here, namely that there is just far too much cutting back on the police, that we should have much more blue on the street and not much more boas? Isn't that the discussion that should be held?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u24	From the beginning, this cabinet has invested 290 million extra in the police. What is going on, though, is that I will be very honest about this: 17,000 people are going to retire these years. That's a huge amount. I don't have to explain. We have also put occasional means against this, but we can see that this is putting pressure on the police. Fortunately, in the spring note, I received an additional 55 million for the deployment of guards and security guards, so that in the long run the people who have now left the base team will return. We're really doing a lot of investment. We really have a big stream. We have 49.000, 50,000 policemen on the street. Then 17,000, the number of people who retire, is a very large number. But this has my constant attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and then Mrs Kuik, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u26	I hear the Minister say that the abuse of enforcers can count on lick-on-piece policies. But that's only after the assault. The minister just said that 17,000 agents are pouring out because of retirement. We've seen that coming a long time. Next, the influx of new agents stalls because of the corona crisis. So I want to hear solutions from the minister, not just next month. What will the Minister choose? Option one is that you give the boas only a supervisory function and that they can call the police, knowing that there are screaming deficits and that there are far too few cops to respond afterwards. Or is the Minister going to equip the boas with the means to defend themselves, so that they can actually carry out their enforcement task which they actually take over from the police? What's the Minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u27	That's a good point. I have said this from the outset, as I said just now in the introduction to Mrs Yeşilgöz, that we are using people to work together on monitoring and enforcement. I'll check every week how that works out, also from the coronacrime monitor. It is absolutely important that, first and foremost, we achieve good enforcement, but also that we can provide direct support to the boas if they come into a difficult situation. On the one hand, the corona crisis has stopped a few things a bit more. On the other hand, she has also offered a little more room for effort. During the work visits that I'm doing now with a foot and a half away, I hear from cops that they're getting back into the neighborhoods. That is one of the few positive effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u28	The minister says police and boas have to work together, but I think that's actually a false idea of things. After all, we see that boas are taking over more and more tasks from the police, simply because there are shortages. That's gonna cause problems. We therefore give boas tasks that are indeed not sufficiently equipped for them, but are not trained for them either. In short, I ask the Minister to look very critically at this. What's he gonna do about it? Do we even ask for things from the boas they're equipped for? After all, he says that we are not going to equip them and I share that view with a pepper spray or with a weapon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u29	I don't see the picture that the police would leave the boas to their fate. On the contrary, I think that cooperation is really good. There are also boas directly attached to the police. Things are not going well; let that be very clear. As far as I'm concerned, such an incident cannot happen. But that is my repeated appeal and this week, before the Pentecost weekend, I will send another letter to all mayors of the city. The use of boas must be such that it falls within the scope of what can reasonably be expected of them. In addition, the police must also be immediately deployable if certain situations are to escalate unexpectedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u30	I can very well imagine that a fellow boa looking at this kind of horrible imagery is going to maintain in a different way the next day. If you're gonna do that with more restraint, it's gonna get us out of the rain. The call of those boas to get support in any form whatsoever must therefore be followed up. I don't hear the Minister saying clearly what he can do for those boas. So let me ask this question: how can we at least support the boas in such a way that they can work with a good feeling and equipped to maintain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u31	I said earlier that from the autumn of last year, 2019, I myself had a conversation with the police and boa unions. There, moreover, we have quickly established that security must be at the forefront and that we must not work with the monopoly of violence. In addition, we have always said: the core is the safety of the boa. So it's about the right commitment by authority and the resources I just mentioned, like the bodycam and the like. And then we come to the bat: the final piece is the question of whether you are going to allow that weapon to be used at any time in certain circumstances. But that's got to be the end of the line, even given the targets boas have. I think that I should continue to monitor this constantly, especially in these times, in the corona period. Also this week I'm going to talk again to hear what's not going well and what we're going to do about it with each other. I'm gonna keep having that conversation with the unions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u32	I think a lot of boas are watching this little debate right now, because those people have to stand out day in, day out. I am very pleased that the Minister has promised a letter for the consultation on 8 June. I'm actually fine with it, because you need to think about it, but I'd like to ask you to take one thing into that letter. In the municipality of Haarlemmermeer, for example, boas now have a baton in their locker. They've been using them for years. Then it became quiet and it had to be re-examined if these people could have a baton any longer. The Justice Department said it's quiet now, so you can't have a baton anymore. I would like to draw your attention to that. I think that's a bit of a weird argument, because should we wait until it's restless, until they're put together, before they can have another baton?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u33	It's not that simple. I have just made it clear that the question of whether that gummistok is allowed depends on the particular circumstances invoked by the triangle. Of course it is. I have mentioned one example of this, but there are others to mention. It is indeed quite understandable that there could be circumstances in the Haarlemmermeer which makes the triangle think it should be possible again. That will always be looked at and motivated in a good way. In any case, I will explain that point again in the letter. It's not some kind of superobstacle. There are no unreasonable demands. There may be circumstances that you say: it's really wise that boas can do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u34	And that's all gonna be in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u36	Thank you.
