ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u1	The debate is now on the budget for Justice and Security (35570-VI), the adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Justice and Security (VI) for the year 2021. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the Secretary of State. Nice to see her again. After the previous debate in this Chamber with the Secretary of State for Immigration and Asylum, we are now six months away, but there is no sign of any momentum in dealing with the asylum mess. On the contrary, the problems of nuisance and tax waste continue to accumulate, while mass immigration continues to flourish. The small dip in the influx last spring, thanks to the boundaries closed by corona measures, has already been overtaken long and wide. For next year, as much as EUR 63.4 million of periodic penalty payments may be paid to asylum profiteers for over-decisive mines at the IND. It goes on and on. Again and again, asylum seekers are taking new routes towards Europe, now massively via the Canary Islands. Instead of effectively banning these intruders, care is being provided over and over again and, under the guise of imposed solidarity, is being sought for redistribution within the EU Member States. The EU's new migration pact will set up a new trap for this in the naive Netherlands. After all, the EU is not focusing on the effective exclusion of asylum migrants, but on regulating this flow of immigration. But regulation is facilitating and the Netherlands should not participate in it. Therefore, the cabinet should not agree to this further EU interference and turn against this migration pact. Where the budgetary states speak of strong enforcement of the rules by the European Commission, only the Member States such as Hungary, which do not participate in the organised distribution of mass immigration, are in practice strongly affected. Meanwhile, the Netherlands should not seek refuge in false solutions, such as a mini-Schengen. Instead, we must, in principle, opt for control and control over our own national borders. As far as PVV is concerned, we need to close our borders for mass immigration. The Netherlands grows every year with about 100,000 inhabitants, a city as big as Deventer or Delft, and this is largely due to asylum migration. For the coming year, this cabinet has already laid down a task for provinces and municipalities for the housing of as many as 27,000 status holders. There is no way to build against that, especially in an already overcrowded country where every square meter is already claimed multiple times for climate crap like wind and solar parks, new fake nature, blockboxes full of migrant workers, depoldering et cetera et cetera. The question is: where does the Secretary of State intend to leave all these status holders? Should our farmers sacrifice their land, whether or not under pressure from the nitrogen rules, to build houses for asylum migrants? Should our house seekers be on waiting lists for social rentals any longer? Should residents be saddled in their living environment for years with so-called temporary homes for so-called emergency seekers, including many status holders? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In the meantime, this budget does not show any improvement. On paper, there are raging words about further developing a robust migration chain, but the only thing that is robust about it are robust without prejudice to high influx in the coming years and the corresponding costs. The prognosis of asylum influx remains sky high in the coming years, up to 2025, with over 29,000 asylum migrants per year. The return targets will remain unchanged in the forecast for the coming years at the same level of 20% self-departure, 30% forced departure and 50% self-departure without supervision. It is precisely this last category that wishes to return again and again to repeat the whole procedure. Can the Secretary of State state explain why there is no ambition in these projections to reduce asylum influx and to focus more firmly on strictly controlled and forced return? How do these constant figures relate to the scale of voluntary return mentioned in the budget states? I'd like a response. With this incessant mass immigration, the enormous nuisance also persists. This applies to almost all azc-locations, but I'm now focusing on the mega-azc in Budel, municipality of Cranendonck, because there are the necessary developments. As far as the nuisance is concerned, the incident last week at the local supermarket in Maarheeze, a nearby place, is significant. Three asylum seekers from the azc Budel were caught in shoplifting and beat and then pushed shop staff and bystanders to escape. Against such aggressive asylum chorem, so-called chain sailors like government tigers do nothing at all. The consultations with municipalities and COA and the Top X list of the Secretary of State also offer no relief from this misery. Putting more money into local nuisance measures is also a wash nose. The only thing that really helps is securing this scum and getting it straight back to the country of origin. Instead, such heavy nuisance bombers only get pranks. Recently, a group of so-called safelanders from the azc in Budel received so-called severe penalties for multiple thefts and group burglaries, ranging from only three days to eight weeks at most. The district attorney said, "Let this be a clear sign that this kind of nuisance doesn't get away with it." These hardened asylum criminals laugh at this kind of punishment, especially when they are not even expelled. The inhabitants of the municipality of Kranendonk are now punished by this State Secretary for at least twenty years. The COA wants to transform the azc Budel into a second Ter Apel, or a common alien site, where all the facilities are put together, for 1,500 asylum seekers. The military buildings on this former Nassau-Dietzkazerne are replaced by new eight-person apartments with kitchen and bathroom, a new entrance building, a joint service centre, educational facilities and a sports hall. And that's for the next 20 years. While the nursing homes are being closed for our elderly people, here in the Budel forests a brand new and fully equipped asylum paradise is being built, in order to structurally facilitate the incessant mass immigration. One Ter Apel is already one too many, so why open another asylum magnet? Is that the robust development envisaged by the VVD Secretary of State? While the COA has already signed a 23-year lease agreement with the Ministry of Defence, as the owner of the complex, it ignores the agreements previously made with the municipality of Kranendonk. In 2016 it was agreed that the azc may stay for ten years and that the contract can then be renewed for five years in consultation with the city council. COA now misses that, as with other azc's elsewhere in the country. In spite of previous agreements, the COA reopens all kinds of azc's, keeps them open for longer or increases the number of reception places. Can the Secretary of State justify this overboard of agreements between the COA and the municipalities? What can citizens rely on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u4	I do not want to go into the many hyperboles that Mr Van Hattem uses in a completely closed world view. I don't have the illusion that I can change that either. But I will also address him as a lawyer and as a member of the First Chamber on the issue of the separation of powers. For in order to illustrate your speech, you are taking an opinion on the level of punishment, for whatever you call a scumbag and what is more, in the case of offences which have been before the courts. And in one move, you indicate that these are obviously not the right punishments. How do you know that? And is it true that we are talking about punishment in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. What we have to observe is that, from the totally open world view of D66, it remains possible that these types of asylum criminals continue to cause structural nuisance in Dutch society, and thus also completely undermine the system itself and burden Dutch society with a major problem. Next, if you look at the kindness of the Detention Centre in Rotterdam, you can see that there are asylum criminals who repeatedly, over and over, come into that procedure, cause trouble and literally laugh at the punishments that are being imposed here. So I see what is being imposed on measures here. They're not minor offences; we're talking about burglaries committed in a group. Those aren't minor felonies. That is not bike theft, which is already the order of the day at the azc in Budel. I'm talking about burglaries and stuff. When we talk about penalties from three days to eight weeks at most, they really don't turn their hand around for that. That is why I believe that there can indeed be talk of punctual punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u6	Mr Van Hattem revolves around my fundamental question with a very long story. He even looks at it from the point of view of the people he called criminally. I don't care if they laugh about it. When it comes to migration, you think: everything is allowed. It is a question of whether it is appropriate to ask the question, but it is a question of partly answering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u7	That is certainly appropriate, because it needs to be placed in a broader context. The measures that are being taken, including in this budget, are aimed at tackling this nuisance. The penalties imposed do not work properly. More action is therefore needed. A higher sentence could be one of them. It is therefore appropriate, as a parliament, to express our opinion on the problem of revolving door crime which is common among such a nuisanceous asylum-criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u9	So I think it is very appropriate to look at this in the context of the nuisance that is taking place. This includes clear penalties and measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u10	If you ask Mr Van Hattem a question, the problem is always that he has three times a reason to speak again. That's why I often get scared to do it. But in fact he says in his last answer: tackling nuisance in a general sense is part of this discussion. I agree. But I do not agree with the first part of your speech. I don't have any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u11	Continue your argument, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u12	It would be a nice thing for me if D66 were to go for a firm approach and join us in closing the borders for such asylum criminals. But unfortunately I do not hear that from Mr Backer either. Okay, Mr. Chairman. That confidence has now been seriously damaged by the inhabitants of Cranendonck. Because of these long-term and large-scale plans with the azc and because the safelanders make Cranendonck unsafe, the inhabitants have started an online petition, which has been signed 1,700 times, over 1,700 times. The reactions and comments of local residents to this petition are significant. With all the thefts, robberies, burglaries, robberies and other nuisances, people are really tired of it. A little extra money for local measures doesn't solve anything. The only thing that helps is to stop the development of this azc and arrest, secure and deport the asylum criminals. If not under this Rutte cabinet. This cabinet remains generously facilitating the illegal foreigners with bed, bath and bread, under the guise of the rural amenities foreigners, the lvv's. In a positive evaluation, the commitment will be "to conclude a governance agreement with the VNG to establish a nationwide network in the future." Anyway, stop pampering illegals like this. And then the administrative agreement with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the VNG. What kind of questionable backroom deal is that with a club of unelected professional drivers? In this way, people's representatives, including in the municipal councils, are excluded. In line with the climate tables and the asylum management tables, such a governance agreement is once again a shambles of democracy. What about the grant scheme referred to in the budget states for self-departure 2019, which is intended for non-governmental organisations? Which organisations are financed and what are the concrete results so far? How many illegal immigrants have actually left through this scheme? We'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this is also related to the failed project of the Amsterdam GroenLinks Alderman Groot Wassink with regard to voluntary return, where 3.3 million euros were spent for only one returner? To what extent have state resources been used for this purpose? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I will table three motions: a motion calling on the government not to agree to the new migration pact of the European Union, a motion calling for no administrative agreement to be concluded with the VNG on a nationwide covering network of lv's, the rural facilities of foreign nationals, and a motion calling for the withdrawal of a second Ter Apel in Budel. Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. We now need the government's first-term response. Mr. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u14	I would like a five-minute suspension, because a range of questions have been asked in various areas. Five minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u15	Then I'll suspend until 2:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u16	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u17	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to Mr Van Hattem for the questions he has asked, because that gives me the opportunity to answer them. Mr Van Hattem started with the asylum mess and the EUR 36.4 million in periodic penalty payments. The forecast was that a very large amount of periodic penalty payments would have to be paid. That is why I set up a task force and, also thanks to your Chamber for its cooperation, we have been able to adopt the Temporary Law on periodic penalty payments. As a result, the amounts from an estimated 70 to 100 million have been reduced to 36.4 million. I agree that this is still too much, but thanks to your Chamber we have managed to make a good deal of progress. Mr Van Hattem then asked a question about not agreeing to the migration pact. I understand from him that that is actually Mr Van Hattem's approach and the PVV. The migration pact is urgently needed. Let's establish one thing: migration is something we can only solve together. Migration is not conceived in the Netherlands. You can't hold it in the Netherlands. It is a problem that goes beyond borders, and that means that we have to deal with migration with the European Member States, with our European partners. In recent years, it has taken a very long time to take another step. With the new Commission, a major pact was presented by the Commissioner at the end of September, with proposals to improve the European Union's migration policy. The basic attitude of the Dutch cabinet is that we are moderately positive about this. It is important that steps are taken. Among other things, it is important that the EASO and Eurodac are regulated. At the same time, it is also important that we all agree that there will be a so-called border procedure, which will screen those who want to go to the European Union at the external borders whether they are viable or not. The non-chances must then return. Part of the new proposals is that Member States ensure that they have organised this well. This goes hand in hand with solidarity with Member States that are under enormous pressure, such as the southern Member States of Europe. In addition, return is an incredibly important part of the proposals. Those who are not eligible for asylum in the European Union must return. The European Union is committed to this together with the Member States. The government therefore does not accept the migration pact as an option. Again, it is a cross-border issue that we can only solve with each other. The proposals that are before us are really a great improvement on what is now on the table. As proposed by Mr Van Hattem, closing borders is not the issue for the reasons I have just mentioned. It is a cross-border issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u18	As a result of the asylum and migration pact, may I ask the Secretary of State a question? Yesterday was the JHA Council. We have already discussed this in an oral discussion. Can the Secretary of State inform us here a little about the outcome of yesterday's meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u19	The outcome of the meeting was that there is actually no outcome yet. Everyone has expressed their opinion. The southern Member States have a very strong commitment, on which they have also sent a letter, as I am sure Mrs Karimi knows. The Eastern Member States also have a strong view. Very small steps are being taken, but yesterday's outcome is that there will probably be a Presidency conclusion after the end of the German Presidency, and that is all. Then we will continue during the Portuguese Presidency. Unfortunately, it seems to be going to be a matter that is going to take a little longer than Commissioner Johansson initially had in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u20	Can the Secretary of State make it clear what the next step might be? She said that my group agreed that we should be able to move forward with a number of legislative processes. Is that gonna happen, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u21	We're not there yet. I would like to talk about the European Pact at all times, but I thought I would answer Mr Van Hattem's questions in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u22	I'd say so. You haven't registered either, Mrs. Karimi. So we didn't count on series of interventions either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u23	If you'll allow me one last question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u24	That's the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u25	I could have signed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u26	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u27	I thought I was just trying to keep it short. The President of the European Commission felt that they were in the process of piloting the Greeks, in which the border procedure would be worked out. Could the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u28	We support that. That has been suggested by the Belgians. A simulation, a pilot, whatever you want to call it, with the border procedure. This has been supported by us and several Member States. The German Presidency was also positive about this. But I have not yet heard the follow-up, because the meeting was just completed yesterday. Mr. Chairman. We have put forward a task for the municipalities of 27 000 status holders to be housed. We understand, whether I understand, that this is a very big task for the municipalities, because there is a shortage of housing in the Netherlands. This means that the municipalities really have to do their best to see if there are places to find. They're working hard on that. Several times a year I meet with the National Regietable. I am meeting again at 4 p.m. this afternoon with the National Regietable, which is chaired by the Minister of the Interior, because housing status holders in municipalities is a responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. There is consultation with municipalities and with provinces. The COA also talks a lot with the municipalities. What we are talking about this afternoon, among other things, is whether and in what way we can provide additional support to the municipalities in order to cope with this great task. I have to say, they're status holders. So they are people who will soon have to be housed in the municipalities. At the moment, in the azc's under the COA, there are about 8,000 status holders who should be established in a municipality. So they are waiting for a place. The tricky thing is that the place in the azc is filled by that status holder. This also means that the COA is currently at the limit of its capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u29	Thanks for the answer so far. We're hearing the director's tables coming by. It's in the administrative field where this is rigged. That is not really where the representatives of the people have a role to play. Could the Secretary of State perhaps indicate how the Municipal Councils, how the Provincial States, how we as the Second and First Chambers can also have some role and involvement with what is being discussed at those governing tables? For now it is a very one-sided mission, on which little democratic direction is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u30	The arrangement for the National Regietable was made a few years ago. By the way, there are provincial control tables. Mr. Van Hattem probably knows that like no other. In the National Regietable we asked if the provinces might want to put the provincial director's tables back to work, just to be able to operate closer to the municipalities and those concerned. I understand that Mr Van Hattem is asking about the democratic legitimacy of the National Regietable. There is, because that direction table was set up by the government. In addition, there are representatives of the municipalities, provinces, Home Affairs, Justice and Security, the COA and others. Through the LRT come the provincial director tables and they also have talks with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u31	Indeed, I know better than anyone that there are provincial boards, as the Secretary of State said. That's right. I also recognize it from my other role as a member of the Provincial States. But that's what I keep hearing: as Provincial States, you're not about it, because it's a task imposed on me by the Empire. There is also a lack of public access to documents on this subject. So how can we better control transparency and democratic control of these developments in our system, not just the legitimacy? At the moment, it is really being imposed very unilaterally and there is neither the State General nor the local authorities really good democratic control and direction on these governing tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u32	These are the agreements made a few years ago: how the status holders are housed in the Netherlands and how they can integrate, find a job and so on. This arrangement includes the National Regietable, so that has been democratically established. That board has an assignment and that order is to ensure that those status holders can flow into the municipalities. There is also a division made over all the municipalities. It is not at all that one municipality should have 10,000 and the other only 2 or so. There is a balanced distribution for that. It's all been discussed with the county authorities. The municipalities know these arrangements very well and know exactly how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u33	Then I suggest we let the Secretary of State finish. You will, of course, have your second term. Why don't we let the Secretary of State finish the job? Then I'll give you the opportunity in the second term. Secretary of State, how much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u34	I think it's about ten minutes. Mr Van Hattem had also asked a question about the return. People who go MOB often come back. Why is the ambition for return not adjusted? Returning is a difficult issue. I have just said that return will also be a very important part of the migration pact. It is difficult to get the people back to the country of origin, because there is, of course, disappointment if no asylum is granted here. Of course, it is always very weak to say 'compare with another', but it is true that compared to other European Member States, the Netherlands is in the top five Member States with the best returns. That's close to 30% to 32%. That is far too little indeed. I am happy to admit that to Mr Van Hattem. Nevertheless, the Netherlands is still able to bring back people who have received a rejection, despite the covid time. That really is a great achievement. Then I'll come to the trouble. It was put forward by Mr Van Hattem. He specifically mentioned the nuisance at the supermarkets in Maarheeze and the nuisance in Budel, but I want to pull it more generally. There is indeed a nuisance, and that is a very difficult and unacceptable thing. It can't be that people who are guests and come here because they need protection are going to cause a lot of trouble. As I said in the House of Representatives during the debate, these people are knocking on the door. Over the past few years, we have been dealing with people knocking on the door and then, as it were, putting their feet between that door, entering the house and then refusing to leave. Sometimes they also drape on the couch unsolicited and plant their shoes on the coffee table. With that last picture, I am referring to the troublesome asylum seekers. These are often young people from safe countries who have no right to stay here. We're doing everything we can; I'm doing everything I can. There are four chain sailors; there were two and a half first and now there are four chain sailors. They're very committed. They're often former cops, too. They have compiled a Top X list of the largest wheeldrivers. They have a recently available toolbox, a toolbox for municipalities where they can take all kinds of opportunities to keep it under control. In addition, I opened the htl in Hoogeveen. That is a reception site with an extremely strict regime where the largest wheeldrivers go. In addition, I have provided €50,000 specifically for Budel for additional measures. An extra boa has been hired for that. I made 1 million in total available to all the municipalities involved in nuisances last year to take additional measures, such as cameras, an extra boa or whatever. We are doing everything we can to keep this nuisance under control. Then there is Mr Van Hattem's remark that there will be another gvl, a great luxury azc, also there in Budel, perhaps for 20 years. This is an agreement that is being worked on by the municipality and the COA. My information is that the talks are going well. Mr Van Hattem asked a question about the ITVs and the subsidy scheme and asked how many people actually left. The budget says something about this, but from the IVVs about 545 people have left. We must keep an eye on the fact that that is about the amount of people who have been able to leave. As Mr Van Hattem knows, a subsidy scheme has also been agreed for the IVVs. This arrangement was intended to ensure that the bed-bath bread facilities could be removed and could be transferred to the IVV, where work is being carried out on return. There is now an evaluation of the IVVs. This evaluation will be carried out at the beginning of or mid-February. It's a pilot. Following the results of that evaluation, we will examine the results of the five IVVs we have during the pilot period in the Netherlands. The last question asked by Mr Van Hattem was about Amsterdam, about Alderman Groot Wassink and the money that was spent there. That was 3.1 or 3.5 million; I think Mr Van Hattem mentioned the amount of 3.1 million. I can say to Mr Van Hattem that there is no money involved. I hope that I have answered all the questions in the first term, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u35	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then we've come to the second term of office. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the first-term reply. I would like to comment on a number of points that have been reviewed so far. The Secretary of State indicated that there was 36.4 million euros for the IND's penalty payment scheme. From the documents, from the budget states, on page 21, it can be read that it would amount to 63.4 million. I wonder where that 36.4 million came from and what the right amount is. Then there's the migration pact. The Secretary of State says that the migration pact is very important and that we really need it, but in the meantime I also hear the Secretary of State say that it is going to take a little longer before it gets off the ground, because the European Commission is going to take a little longer. Then I wonder where the national measures are in the meantime, because if we have to wait for the European Commission, if we want to do so, not for the PVV, then we can wait until the end of the day. But migratory flows continue to be strong every week, so we need to put an end to that. The migration pact includes not only the so-called border procedure, but also solidarity and redistribution. As far as return is concerned, the Secretary of State is already unable to make agreements with Morocco. A Marrakesh Pact has also been concluded that should make it all possible. What effect would this have if it didn't work out at the moment? The most important question about the migration pact is, as far as I am concerned, the following. We see in the budget states the asylum projections for the next five years. It just stays on an inflow of 29,000 continuously. If that migration pact were to be so effective and so important, what would the asylum forecast be? With the migration pact, does it suddenly go to zero? Is it still 29,000 or maybe even more? If that is the case, then we certainly do not need that migration pact. Mr. Chairman. The next item is the director's tables. We just had a little discussion about that. What we notice is that the Secretary of State keeps coming back to: it is the task that has been strengthened. What is the time now as a People's Assembly at what level? Are we going to find something about that and adjust it? It is said by the Secretary of State that the province is involved, but in the province it is said to be an assignment from the Empire, from the cabinet, from the Secretary of State. The same story applies to the municipalities. And it is said to the Upper House or Lower House that this is the arrangement that has been made. So when can we do something about that, find something and adjust something? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. The Netherlands would be in the top five of countries with the best return arrangements. In the meantime, I hear that only 545 people have left the IVVs, while there are considerable sums and facilities. Apparently, the rigging of those IVVs doesn't exactly encourage you to leave, but rather to stay longer. The Secretary of State rightly says that nuisance is difficult and unacceptable. And the comparison with staying in the home is striking, but I do not have the impression that from the cabinet everything is really being done to solve it. The toolbox is called, the chain mariners and so on are called, but these are all drops on the glowing plate. And if we look at the situation in the municipality of Cranendonck: recently the residents were forced to organise a kind of neighborhood watch to keep their own village safe. Well, you really don't do that for fun, going in circles. There are people out there who have to go to the azc themselves to get back stolen bikes. So if such a toolbox, chain sailors and the whole rata plan has been rigged, why do people still have to act on their own to do something for their safety? Doesn't it seem like these measures are working? I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then very quickly, towards the second term, a few other points. I'm just gonna stop by and check on my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u37	Did you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u38	Yeah, I've got it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u39	They must therefore be within your speaking time, preferably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u40	First of all, the motions. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to conclude an administrative agreement with the VNG, with a view to establishing a nationwide network of national immigration services in the future;]] [[Whereas:]] [[the provision of facilities to illegal foreigners is undesirable and they must leave the country as soon as possible;]] [[a governance agreement with the VNG as an administrative umbrella organisation puts the role of the democratic parliament out of play;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from concluding an administrative agreement with the VNG in order to establish a nationwide network of national foreign facilities in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u41	Then the next motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union intends to conclude a new migration pact;]] [[whereas migration policy should not be regulated by the EU;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to a new EU migration pact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u42	Then there's another motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the COA wants to develop a second common alien site in Budel alongside Ter Apel;]] [[Whereas:]] [[these developments violate agreements with the municipality of Cranendonck on the maximum time limit for the current azc;]] [[the inhabitants of Cranendonck already experience a great deal of nuisance and crime from the azc;]] [[mass immigration should not be facilitated with a mega-azc for 1,500 persons;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from developing the common foreign location and new construction of the azc in the municipality of Cranendonck,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u43	Finally, I would have liked the Secretary of State to tell me exactly what she means by this robust development. And the question as to which non-governmental organisations they actually support under this subsidy scheme, what the results are and how many illegals actually left on that basis. Mr President, I would like to conclude with regard to these budgetary states. We will support the Budgetary States Justice and Security 2021, only this part of migration and asylum will not. So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Secretary of State, may I give you the floor immediately? Yeah? Then I'll take a look at the messenger for the cathedral, and I'll gladly give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u45	Mr President, thank you. First of all, about the penalty payment, the amounts. So far, 11 million have been paid out and we are expected to have to pay around 35, 36 million over 2020 and 2021. Those are the figures, that's what I'm telling you here, and that's what the pieces say. Mr Van Hattem asked one more question: the European Commission is going to do a little bit longer about this migration pact, and what are we going to do nationally? I have explained that migration law is mainly European law. Indeed, we have Dutch law and we are doing as much as possible to give protection to the refugees who really need our protection. Those who do not have the right to asylum will be told and must return to the country of origin. We were way behind in the IND, and for that reason, and because I think people should know as soon as possible what they are up to, I set up the task force. The task force did not achieve what we had hoped for at the end of the year, but we hope to achieve that in the next six months. This means that we have dealt with a huge backlog of 15,350 cases. There will be people who will be given a status, but there will also be people who will be told to return to the country of origin. This is the kind of thing that we are doing nationally. Mr Van Hattem's next question on the Marrakesh Pact. At least, this European pact is similar to the Marrakesh Pact, Mr Van Hattem said. It's two completely different things. I prefer to refer to the European Commission's proposals for asylum from the European Commission and to regulations and directives. The Marrakesh Pact is there to make agreements between a large number of countries to deal with migration in a certain way. It's absolutely not a legal construction that you can imagine what someone would be tied to. Mr Van Hattem's question was also what the European proposals mean for the asylum forecast. What does the pact mean for the prognosis? The Pact does not affect the prognosis. It may well be that tomorrow there will be a huge conflict, an even greater conflict than the conflicts we know today, and that means that people are fleeing again and are probably also moving in the direction of the European Union. We make MPPs, i.e. multiannual projections based on the data we have. But it is not the case that the Pact regulates the potential influx of asylum seekers. However, due to the border procedure and a tighter return policy of the European Union, the attractiveness of the European Union may be reduced, thereby reducing the flows of asylum. But that's looking at the coffee table right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u46	I suggest we give the Secretary of State the opportunity to conclude her answers. A little correction, Mr. Van Hattem? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u47	I heard the Secretary of State say that I had compared the current EU migration pact which is now one-on-one with the Marrakesh Pact. My question was precisely whether the improvement in return envisaged in the Marrakesh Pact, which is already not working, would be needed in this immigration pact. That was the clutch I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u48	I just explained the status of the Marrakesh Pact. That is a statement of 'what we would like or can do', but it is not legally binding at all. The only thing that matters to all of us here in the Netherlands, and certainly in the European Union as a whole, is the European Union's proposals for asylum and migration policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u49	I suggest we get the Secretary of State to complete her response. Then we'll see how much time we have left, including the three motions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u50	Let's start with the questions, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem asked about the National Regietable. When can the People's Assembly adjust it? When can we adjust this? It is a national scheme based on the fact that people who have been granted a status are housed and, in particular, must be integrated into Dutch society. The Landelijke Regietable ensures that these appointments can be carried out, assisted if necessary by regional management tables. Good divisions have been made for that. That's the background to the LRT. It's nationwide. As far as the return is concerned, I was wrong: the number of 550 or 545 I mentioned is the return from the support independent departure, thanks to the NGOs and not the ITVs. I have corrected that and with that I gave the answer to Mr Van Hattem's last question about the departure through the NGOs. The nuisance has been asked why everything is not done from the cabinet. I thought, and I hope, that I have been able to demonstrate that we are really doing everything within our power. There's no way to lock up a bunch of non-criminals, but apart from that, we've put everything into work. If further measures could be needed, which we have not come up with at the moment and which could also help, then we will take care of them. What we are also ensuring is that safe people who are here do not have the right to asylum, but have applied for asylum and therefore have to be temporarily taken care of until they have received a final decision, are treated soberly separately. That too is to discourage those. That's the way we operate. Once again, for the sake of clarity, when criminal acts are being committed, when criminal cases are being dealt with, it is a matter of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and ultimately the judge. Mr Van Hattem had another question about the robust development. I would like to ask Mr Van Hattem what kind of robust development he is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u51	Could that be short, because I'm starting to run a little out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u52	Yes. After that, all we have to do is make the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u53	Mr Van Hattem, a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u54	In the budgetary states, it is one of the introductory phrases that this policy is a robust development. So it's the words from the Ministry. I can't figure out what that robust development is all about. I've found the literal quote by now. It's about the robust migration chain, that's the term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u55	Thank you to Mr Van Hattem for explaining this. It is indeed about the robust migration chain. That's what I'm really committed to. We ensure that we are able to take asylum seekers very well in Ter Apel and see if anyone is entitled to asylum or not. Then we work very well with the COA to make sure that we take them very well and that it is also tightly organized. Eventually it is also looked at very hard by the Return and Departure Service that those who are not entitled to asylum in the Netherlands can and will leave. To the extent that measures are needed to deal with nuisances and the like, they are all taken. We are trying very hard to create a robust migration chain, in which it connects one to the other and in which everyone is well in conversation so that there can be no gaps at that point. That is what we mean by the robust migration chain. And I understand that Mr Van Hattem thinks it is slightly less robust than I think it is, but that is the difference I have with Mr Van Hattem. I am afraid I cannot bridge this with Mr Van Hattem today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u56	Finally, the motions, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u57	The first motion states that I must waive the administration agreement with the VNG on the ISV. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade him, because we're still working on the pilot. The evaluation is yet to come. It's only after the evaluation's in place that we can look further. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. The second motion concerns the EU Pact and asks the Cabinet not to agree to it. I would just like to say a few words about the Pact on Migration. From what I have argued in this regard about the importance of European legislation on asylum, you must understand that I must discourage that motion. Then the gvl in Budel. That's a matter between the COA and the municipality of Budel. Those parties are negotiating. As far as I know, it's going well. There it is. I also have to discourage that motion, because I'm not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u58	Finally, a brief enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u59	Especially about the last point. The motion on Budel is not recommended. The Secretary of State says that the COA is under negotiation there, but the COA is under the Ministry, at least under the responsibility of this Secretary of State. Then it is true that we can call on the Secretary of State to refrain from doing so and order the COA to stop doing so, also in the interests of the residents of Budel and Maarheeze. You may not convince me today, but I am also concerned about the inhabitants of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u60	That's clear. It was about the command line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u61	Then I'm gonna close with that. ...for the people who want a safe land and don't want their land to be unsafe by the safe landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u62	No, but it was about the line of command.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u63	The residents of Budel will be represented by the municipal council and the municipal council. I think that city council man is enough to do the negotiations through B and W. For the sake of clarity, it is true that I am ultimately responsible for the COA, but the COA is a ZBO, an independent administrative body.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u64	I shall close the debate and come to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u65	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u66	Mr. Chairman. As indicated in my second term, we are in agreement with the legislative proposal, but we are asking for a note on Article 37 of the budget states. That's the migration part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-24.u67	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I propose that we vote today at the end of the sitting on the motions tabled. I shall suspend for a brief moment in anticipation of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for Finance.
