ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the policy debate on the state of the rule of law and 35300, adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Justice and Security for 2020. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u2	I would draw Members' attention to the fact that two Members will make their maiden speech today. I'll ring a bell before every maiden speech. After each maiden speech, I will address the speaker and suspend the sitting for congratulations, again asking not to shake hands. I give the floor to Mr Van Wely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to congratulate the ladies De Blécourt-Wouterse and Veldhoen on their maiden speeches. I am also very curious about the points of view of my colleagues. And especially a spoiler alert for Mr. Backer. I'm not going to talk today about the dikastocracy. Sorry, Joris, but you can just breathe again, unless you're going to provoke with all kinds of interruptions; then of course I don't have a choice anymore. Mr. Chairman. A state in the state. A state in our rule of law is a major threat, if not the greatest threat. I am talking here about motorcycle gangs, trailer camps, salafistic schools and the city of Amsterdam, to mention just a few examples. Here there is total lawlessness and one can do and let go at will. If you can believe Pieter Tops' report, and that's what we do, then the top and underworld are intertwined. How deep? Joost may know, but it might be bad news for our rule of law in Amsterdam. And then the salafistic schools. That naughty things were preached there, read: the Sharia........................................................................................................................................................................... Only a few elements in our society were still in denial and probably still can't believe what Dick Schoof had to say about this. It is typically Dutch that this can happen, preaching the destruction of all unbelievers. It is a result of a combination of abuse of freedoms by them and an over-tolerance and naivety on our part. And then the bike gangs. AOA, the Outlaws, the name says it all. They are a hoax in the fur and that sometimes someone is hired to kill someone is also a public secret. Then there are the trailer camps, which have been a closed criminal circuit for many years. Nothing new under the sun here either. These four examples indicate that we are no longer boss in our own house. Amsterdam specifically is a good example of what the results of a culture of tolerance can be. Mr. Chairman. Just a little more specific for Minister Grapperhaus. How come so little progress has been made over the years against these undesirable elements? And does the Minister agree with us that they pose a threat to the rule of law? I would now like to talk about cross-border crime. By cross-border, I do not mean national borders, although this has also led to an increase in crime. I sometimes wonder if we are capable of dealing with these types of figures. Think of Taghi, Şaban B., Gökmen T., the tattookillers or for example the Romanian stunt gang. They operate on a completely different level than we are used to. We are not prepared for this at all. What's our answer to that? An anklet here, a probationary leave there. Let's not forget community service. You can't think of it that crazy. The government in this matter reminds me of a gazelle that has to cross the river on the annual trek. However, in this river there are crocodiles waiting. Some people who have never seen a crocodile even think: Hey nice, should we hug or should we have tea with him? Of course, there is always a gazelle that is the scare, read: a Pim Fortuyn or a Theo van Gogh. And what does the rest of the herd do across the river, while one of them is devoured? They watch and do nothing. I have a number of specific questions for Minister Grapperhaus. Is that where we realize we're dealing with the worst of the worst? Is there any action to be taken? In other words, when do we send the elephant through the river? Mr. Chairman. Society is hardened. As a result, a number of people now need to be protected. Think of Geert Wilders in particular. Think of the prosecutors and recently, following the murder of Derk Wiersum, the lawyer. The security of these people is basically daddy and wet. To solve this problem structurally, you have to be at the root of evil. The fact that Wilders has had to be protected for over a hundred years means only one thing: the State has failed in this. I would like to draw particular attention to one group because they are not threatened from the outside but from the inside, namely the whistleblowers. I also believe whistleblowers play an important role in doing justice in society. It is not possible for them to be dealt with accordingly. In concrete terms, my questions to Minister Dekker are: is the Minister going to work for a cultural change, so whistleblowers don't have to worry about reprisals? There are enough horrorstory's in which they were. When can Wilders be relieved of his guards and can he focus on the corona threats? Mr. Chairman. If the ordinary citizen does not understand it, then that is also a bad thing for the state of the rule of law. That is why I would like to agree with you on equality of law, or equal monks, equal hoods. I would like to highlight two examples: the less-minor process against Geert Wilders and the trial against the blockage frying. Please note: I do not make statements about whether it was good or bad. I would just like to point out that other politicians who have also made statements that were not lying, think of Pechtold, Samsom and Spekman, have managed to get away with it. This is in conjunction with the intensity with which the prosecution conducts this process. Apart from the fact that I suspect the worst, the credibility of justice is not being done well in the show process. Then the blockage fries. There was a disturbance of law and order. Fine. The punishment was community service. Okay, even if it's a little on the big side. But on the other side of the spectrum, a drunk who kills grandparents and their grandchildren gets a similar punishment. Why don't you explain that? That is also what we, the Forum for Democracy, consider to be a threat to the state of the rule of law. I have a specific question for Minister Dekker. Does he agree with the principle of equal monks, equal hoods? If so, is there a proper monitoring of whether judges make strange statements that can cause social unrest? Mr. Chairman. In order to improve the rule of law, laws and penalties should not be fake laws and fake punishments. What are laws worth if they have no social support, no purpose and no enforcement? What good are punishments if they're not punishments? I would like to mention a few recent examples. Soon we'll only be able to drive 100 more. Is there social support for this? No. Does it help to significantly reduce nitrogen? No. As a follow-up to this, I would like to mention the punishment associated with this, namely docking. That might give a perverse incentive to the government. At our eastern neighbors you can turn in your driver's license after a number of speeding times. That makes sense to me, but the government is fine with that here, as long as you pay. The aim is also to improve road safety, but I have no idea whether that will be achieved. Then another recent example, the burqa ban. A number of municipalities have already indicated that this cannot and cannot be maintained because they do not have the capacity to do so. So they give that a low priority. I admit that sometimes it's useful to have a stick behind the door, but I prefer that laws, especially new laws, are proactively applied in our system. Finally, I would like to return to the legal system. The Forum for Democracy likes to see a lot more blue on the streets. However, the power of the system is determined by the weakest link. In all sectors, therefore, there will be a need to improve so that everything can move forward in parallel. I hope that the Minister can give his opinion on this and that he can indicate how the police and the judiciary relate in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wely would be disappointed if I did not interrupt him after his invitation. I think, Mr President, that this button is an infection fireplace, but I still have to hold on to it. I thank Mr Van Wely for his speech. He says he doesn't go into the role of the judge, but he does eventually. He raises a number of issues that are still pending. Mr Van Wely says he doesn't agree with that, but he does. That is a well-known rhetorical approach that is somewhat transparent. My main question is this. If he raises this issue, it fits in with a longer line, starting with the D-word and a hearing yesterday, he is indeed talking about the credibility of the judiciary in all kinds of cases. First they're in the state's attorney's office, but now they're in the judiciary. Will it now help to increase cohesion in society if we make the referee who has to decide on this suspicious on the issues he deals with and on some of the statements that have received a great deal of attention? What is Mr Van Wely's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr Backer is immediately talking about suspicion, but we see this as having a healthy discussion about the rulings of a judge. I do not see why we should not criticise or give our opinion on a court ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u6	Of course. That word may sound a bit harsh, but neither does Mr Van Wely. Anyone, journalists, scientists, can express an opinion on a judicial ruling, but we have a different role to play. We are part of the legislative assembly, the controlling power, one of the three of the trias politicians. What we say has a different value. That is why it is important that we realise this. That's how we're understood. That is my point in the debate on the role of the judiciary. Does this spokesperson, as well as the group chairman of the Forum for Democracy, have sufficient vision of this? You raise a number of important issues in relation to your comment on equal monks. Underneath, of course, you do not think that is the case. Please comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u7	What I said about equal monks getting even is my opinion. You don't have to agree with that. If I interpret your comments on the judiciary correctly, it is basically that we should not say anything about the judiciary at all. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u8	Fortunately, Mr Van Wely misunderstood that. We're gonna talk about this all day. It is a question of what role and in what way we assume the third power of the trias politician. You ended with a request to Minister Grapperhaus to ensure that judges make correct statements; correct statements in the eyes of the Forum for Democracy. This is also in line with the Clteur motion in the debate on the Remkes Committee. That's a different kind of rule of law. That is a policy that affects the judgments of the judge. Isn't that what you're asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Backer, that was the third question. Mr. Van Wely, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u10	I have said that the judiciary must make decisions that are somewhat in line with, among other things, equal monks. In my opinion, this has certainly not happened a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Backer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u12	Finally, Mr President. One of the issues that has been raised widely in the media and also in the debate on the Remkes Committee is a political statement such as Urgenda. You haven't mentioned it now. Now let's just call it man and horse. That is a statement that the Group of the Forum for Democracy has greatly disturbed, because this would be a political statement. What is the definition of a political statement in Mr Van Wely's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u13	First Mr Van Wely and then I go to Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u14	I'd be happy to deal with it. I think that the law generally offers a lot of space. I can assure you that if you're smart enough, you can look up the corners of the law, left or right. It's just what you want. In fact, you can motivate that. Everyone has a certain origin and has been raised in a certain way. In a way, you're unconsciously influenced by your environment. Everyone has a certain preference which allows you, whether unconscious or not, to go in a certain direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Backer, you've already had four occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u16	We'll have a maiden speech later, and that'll buy us time. I would like to put another question to Mr Van Wely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u17	That includes congratulations. Can this be the last one for you? We've been working on this for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u18	This is the last one, at least for now. I'm just gonna keep going to politics. I have just looked at what the Forum for Democracy has been about. You have conducted two interim proceedings in the court of The Hague. One about allowing for a NOS debate where Forum felt disadvantaged and the other about not carrying out a referendum ruling. In both judgments, you asked the court to intervene expressly on the basis of the ECHR. In the second case, politics had yet to make a decision. You've asked the judge to order the government to pass a law because it was in your best interest. Do you think that's a political intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. van Wely, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u20	It is a political intervention if you say that we had no right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr President, I may not say anything more, but Forum had every right. But consistency: then you should not later accuse the judge of political decisions when he is asked for a ruling, which in my opinion had a high political content; not the judgment itself but the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mrs Veldhoen, you have the floor. A brief enlightening question, because that is why there are interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Van Wely, I also referred to what you say about judgments of judges. I wonder how you see the separation of powers. There is a trias politician in the Netherlands. The Minister is not concerned with the judgments of the judge, so what would be the point in your view if the Minister were to monitor those judgments? What would he do with that in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u24	We in the Forum for Democracy also want the powers to remain separate, but we want to ensure that the separate powers can deliver the right quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u25	Yes, and what can the Minister do in your view? In what way should the Minister intervene in this? Then, of course, the powers will shift. If you say 'it's not the way I think it should be, equal monks, equal hoods', then the Minister should monitor it and, if necessary, intervene. Let me get this straight. But this is not how the separation of powers is composed. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u26	The Minister can make a recommendation, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u27	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Wely, or was this... You were already done, I understand. Mrs Veldhoen, the third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u28	On what basis can the Minister make a recommendation? How am I supposed to see that in the legal system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u29	I'm not very well at home in the legal system, I'll admit that right away. I assume that if there is a political majority that believes that the principle of equal monks, equal hoods should be applied, this can be given as a good basis to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mrs. Veldhoen, really the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u31	That is the principle of equality that you are talking about. It's already legally anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u32	Yes, but I want to see it properly applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u33	Then I'll take you to see Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u34	A brief question to Mr Van Wely. He's talking about the wide space that judges have to interpret. Does Mr Van Wely agree with me that as a co-legislator, I am used to looking at myself first if something might go wrong, and have the task of ensuring that the laws are clear, clear and not subject to multiple explanations and that we should therefore regulate as much as possible in laws and as little as possible in general administrative measures? Does Mr Van Wely agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u35	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u36	Can Mr Van Wely then explain to me why his group voted in favour of the Environment Act with 4 AMvBs and with 5,000 pages of vague standards that still need to be implemented through case law by the judges?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u37	Yes, you should have asked our spokesperson Johan Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u38	That's where I brought it in, but there was the adage "less rules is good." I'm asking you now. We are now talking about the state of the rule of law. I just asked you about the principle. You support that: less in AMvBs, clear laws. As a party, as a group, you voted for 5,000 pages of vague standards. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u39	Here it is said that they are vague standards. We do not agree with that. In fact, we think it is a clear improvement of the system. The system is getting easier and clearer. You may find that it is 5,000 pages of vagueness, but we do not share that view at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr Janssen, the last, the fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u41	Then I would like to say to Mr Van Wely that when he talks about interpretation by judges or activist judges, which are 5,000 pages a kind of superfood for those judges of which you will hear a lot more, especially when it comes to the windmills and sunbathing that you have so mangled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Or was Mr. Otten first? Excuse me. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen has already mowed me some of the grass. Yesterday I sat with great interest to see the hearing in the Lower House about the judiciary. Professor Kinneging, very well-known in Forum circles, distinguished professor, said very sharply there: "The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is you, the legislative power, because you create this ambiguity." Following on from Mr Janssen, I notice that Forum, as lackeys of power, immediately agreed to the unholy Environment Act, but for example, is extremely concerned about the 5G frequencies. Once again in one click, the National Coordination Scheme is agreed to turn Herwijnen into a kind of microwave area, while the entire city council, from GroenLinks to VVD and SGP, was against it. Mr Van Wely, I ask through the chairman, when are you going to do something here in the First Chamber to improve legislation and the quality of legislation, and not to agree to anything as easy sheep, without understanding what you are talking about, as under the miserable Environment Act? I would like to add my voice to Mr Janssen. That is my question to Mr Van Wely, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr Otten asks me a lot of questions at the same time, but I am prepared to go into them. First of all, the Rewinning project. It's been a long time. You can't say we went ice in one night. I was also on the committee. I haven't seen you there much, by the way. Do you think that's true?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u45	Is this your whole answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u46	No, this isn't my whole answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u47	If you finish your reply, Mr Otten will have the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u48	Second, the Environment Act. Apparently, that's a little deep with you. I have already replied to Mr Janssen. I don't know if that answer was enough. And finally, yes, I also think that the laws should be better, clearer, sharper. So as for that... I don't see that we're lackeys of anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u49	First of all, I would like to point out that my colleague, Mr De Vries, had an extensive exchange of views with Barbara Visser in all these committees on radar and that we also had very intensive contact with the people of Herwijnen. So, have we really looked into that? Things are also happening outside the committee, Mr. Van Wely, I say through the chairman. But the debate began and the first thing Forum said was: we agree, without waiting for further consideration. That was about the first thing Mr Dessing said. But I'm gonna let that go. My question to Mr Van Wely is: do you agree with Mr Kinneging, respected right-wing philosopher in your club of right-wing philosophers, that the real problem lies with the legislator? He said that very clearly yesterday. He literally said, "The fundamental problem is you." That's what he told the House of Representatives. Does Mr Van Wely agree, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u50	In my view, I have already indicated quite clearly that the laws should be improved. So I'm not saying that the fundamental problem is just here, but I did say that the laws should be better. By the way, Professor Kinneging also gives lectures to other political parties, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr Otten, third and finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u52	In any case, he has been intensively involved. I do not know if he still does so in the training of the Forum framework, so I can assume that what he says has a major impact on the Forum politicians. I'm not getting a really clear answer. In conclusion, however, I would like to call on Mr Van Wely to look more closely at the quality of legislation on behalf of his group in future and to agree with everything less easily but quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u53	I would like to comment on this, because I do not agree with Mr Otten's suggestion that we go ice in one night, at all. I know how much time Johan Dessing invested in the Environment Act. I think he should be praised for that and I really don't think it's okay how Mr. Otten is trying to downplay all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u54	Another question, but let this be noted first. I have also read Mr Cliteur's contribution in a previous debate, and I now see in a different tone and style that Mr Van Wely agrees with. I strongly distance myself from suspecting judges, as if they were making political statements. On the contrary, I believe that a strong rule of law will help us to distinguish between the responsibilities of the different powers. The judiciary must be able to judge independently and reliably. I am very sorry that the debate is now always about a few statements, where, according to Mr Van Wely's party, we see that there might be political motivation, but a majority of the House says that this is not the issue, while it is not about the real problems that many Dutch people do experience every day. What are the problems that Mr Van Wely touched on in his speech, when it comes to drug crime, when it comes to the follow-up of authority here and there? That is why I would like to ask Mr Van Wely: how does he himself reflect in the last half hour? How unfortunate is it that we are not talking about the real problems we know in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mrs Bikker, in my speech I tried to address the real problems in the Netherlands in my speech. I don't know if you agree or not. As far as your comment on the judiciary is concerned, you say that we should actually have a zero-tolerance policy on political statements. Let us say that perhaps 10% of the judiciary makes a political decision. I still don't think that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u56	10% is really madness; first of all. Secondly, you do not answer my question. Because what happens because of what you say and because of what Mr Cliteur says? As a result, it is always about the d-word, when we talk about the state of the rule of law. It is apparent from this that judges have repeatedly stated that they have also indicated the integrity of their judgments. Yeah, you might like a court ruling, but no, the gown guarantees that the judge is neutral. We're talking about that all the time. The Minister may have written down five sentences, but the real problems have not been changed by the debate we have had in the last half hour. I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u57	I would like to say to Mrs Bikker that the judge cannot approve his own meat. I totally disagree with this principle and I just think it is healthy that you should be able to discuss this without talking directly about suspicions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u58	The separation of powers is a great good thing, and we have to deal with it carefully and with it very carefully. However, I would also like to bring in another element, a problem which has not been identified but which is perhaps equally important. Is it not a problem that some of the old international conventions, I am thinking of the Refugee Convention, are sometimes applied by the courts over 60 years old as if they were drafted yesterday, while the context has changed completely? Are these not the real problems that we should tackle before we actually make too far-reaching and far-reaching statements about a separation of powers that would no longer be honoured?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u59	I agree with the fact that, especially with regard to the international treaties that we signed perhaps thirty years ago, we are now being called upon to do so and that these treaties may also be totally published. That will certainly have to be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u60	Do you also recognise that these are perhaps the first problems to be resolved before we are too quick to blame the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u61	I don't entirely agree with that. In everyday life we are faced with problems here in the Netherlands much more often with Dutch legislation than with, say, European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u62	Following on from Mr Van Dijk's question and the discussion on treaties, I will also mention it in my own contribution. That is, of course, simply stated in the Constitution, Articles 93 and 94, the review of treaties. So if you want to change that, you have to do it by two-thirds majority. I wish you every success if you wish, but we are still working on it for a very long time. In the meantime, the treaties exist. I think that we should be so generous and so honest in saying that sometimes it is not convenient for someone to rely on it and sometimes it is. I have just given two examples showing that the ECHR for the Democracy Forum was apparently not outdated on these points. Does Mr Van Wely agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u63	I agree with Mr Backer. I believe that some things are being said occasionally, probably also by your party, which happens to be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u64	I also have a question for Mr Van Wely. He's talking about very old treaties. That may be true in some cases. But does he not agree with me that these treaties have now been coloured in by case law, which has led them to grow with time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u65	Some treaties are still so vaguely defined. For example, I refer to the right to life. That's a right you can go anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u66	Mr President, may I ask another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u67	Of course, ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr Van Wely, have you read the case law of the European Court? The right to life has indeed been coloured in and gone with time. Have you read that case law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u69	I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Van Wely. Then I'll go to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I wish the two Members who make their maiden speech good luck. Congratulations from this place. Probably last week Iran's human rights lawyer Sotoudeh was sentenced to 38 years in prison after a secret trial and 148 lashes for her work as a lawyer. Yesterday, in the Netherlands, the trial against a number of suspects of taking down the flight MH17 began openly. "Ubi iudicia deficiunt, incipit bellum." This text by Hugo de Groot is the motto of the Supreme Court and stands pontifically on their new home. According to the Supreme Court, it means: where judicial decisions fail, the war begins. There is a discussion about the correct translation. But in the light of the rule of law, I believe that the only correct translation is: where there is no access to justice, the war begins. De Groot was still a war between states, now it is about the resistance and the withdrawal of civilians. If citizens are questioned, not heard, but distrusted and dealt with a mistake, then legal protection falls into power protection. In a well-functioning rule of law, the citizen knows how to hear and protect himself and acts in such a way that a citizen can see its decisions as being fair. The state of the rule of law is about the perspective of the citizen. The democratic rule of law has two inseparable elements: democracy guarantees pluralism, the multitude of interests in the Netherlands, and the rule of law provides certainty. The rule of law protects the individual from others and from the government. The rule of law protects the minority against the majority, ensures equal treatment of equal cases and guarantees that the citizen can oppose arbitrary and unlawful government action. That seems obvious, but it's not. Truth and trust are essential ingredients for the functioning of the rule of law. Access to the independent judge is also an equally obvious and necessary condition, as is the independent position of the judge in the trias politician. This seems self-evident, but it's not anymore. Developments at home and abroad require great care. There's a lot of work going on in the justice chain. There's a lot going well. Many thousands of professionals do their work every day, sometimes even with danger to body and body. Their personal and professional commitment makes that system errors do not have serious consequences. The heart for the matter is very large and that is not always sufficiently seen and appreciated. In fact, sometimes that's taken advantage of. That is why, on behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to express my deep appreciation for all those agents, lawyers, civil servants, judges, probation workers, prosecutors and all the others. Without the rule of law, the law of the strongest will apply. Our rule of law is in serious danger if individuals, groups or organisations are able to systematically evade the functioning of law. In the report The back of Amsterdam Mr Van Wely mentioned it even though this conclusion is drawn for our capital city, and that is worrying. The police seem to have lost power on the streets to organized drug crime. And that goes extremely far: they decide who is allowed to live and who is not. The murder of attorney Derk Wiersum is the absolute low point of this. The rule of law has not only been bypassed or corrupted, but has even been attacked. It is naive to assume that this only happens in Amsterdam and not in the rest of the Netherlands. How do we turn the tide? The report makes some recommendations. Perhaps the most important one is: be persistent. My question to the Ministers today is: how will this recommendation be implemented nationally? Do they also see a task for themselves to ensure that this is done in all regions and municipalities? If so, how? If not, why not? There have been substantial additional resources deployed by the current and previous Cabinets to combat drug crime in particular in Brabant, for example. In what way is it ensured that this approach and its resources are truly sustainable, the PvdA Group wonders. In what way is it secured that there can and will be perseverance? These questions are in line with Mr Rosenmöller's motion for a resolution adopted in this Chamber on the sustainability of the financing of the justice chain. What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? Mr. Chairman. Big boys from the underworld deserve a hard-on. The errand boys, on the other hand, should be given a completely different approach. When I asked a detective the other day if he thought the detective could use extra money, he answered to my great surprise that it was always possible, crime is never over, but that it is much more useful to see if the money can't be spent more effectively to prevent vulnerable young people with low IQs from getting into crime. The Labour Party asks the Minister of Justice whether he agrees that a differentiated approach is appropriate, even if that means using resources outside the justice chain. In what way does this trade-off take place within the cabinet? It doesn't happen by itself, is our impression. The Hague works in isolation and organizational interests are passionately defended, even if this means that the overall result is less. Does the Minister of Justice endorse our view or does he see it differently? The rightful integrated approach has so far been mainly repressive. How does the Minister make them preventive? The rule of law also erodes when the searchlight of justice rarely affects some of the lawbreakers. Our good infrastructure, including financial services, is used to launder criminal money. Part of that sector is amoral: they do not care who they use their services for. In what way is this cabinet going to structurally increase the chances of these so-called facilitators? Does the Minister of Justice recognise our view that this is necessary for two reasons? One: it makes the Netherlands less attractive as a location for international drug trafficking. But perhaps even more important is the second reason: it makes it clear that justice does not make a difference to your socio-economic position in society. Whether you're dealing with cocaine or laundering drug money, it makes no difference in culpability and therefore doesn't make any difference in the chances of prosecution and moral disapproval. Too often the image is confirmed that the powerful with their expensive lawyers spring the dance. Make it clear with examples that equality before the law is actually being put into practice and thus strengthen its support. The rule of law is there for every citizen. That is why I ask the Minister what he will do to ensure this. Trust is indispensable in a rule of law. The government must not be fundamentally suspicious of its citizens. At this point, the Tax Administration has gone wrong, and now it is the last one to do blacklisting again. It also did not go well with the introduction of the SyRi common detection system. In both cases, algorithms have been used for detection. Besides obvious advantages, algorithms have a big disadvantage: they work in secret. What input they receive and what choices they make are not verifiable, but can have negative consequences for the functioning of the rule of law: discrimination, disadvantage and institutionalized mistrust. Where's the legal protection against algorithms? Can the Minister of Justice indicate how the functioning of algorithms can be checked in the search and how legal protection can be obtained from this? And can the Minister guarantee that at the time the justice system starts working with algorithms, which is going to happen sooner than we now think, there is no way that these adverse effects will occur? How does the Minister of JenV prepare for this near future? What standards currently exist for the application of algorithms in the detection, trial or financing of legal aid? The development of artificial intelligence must be regulated and limited by the government, and this cannot be delayed for too long. We hope the Minister of Justice agrees with this. Power needs adversity. Criticism of justice is quite possible in this context: substantive criticism of statements, but also systemic criticism. However, this criticism requires great care: the judge, both individually and as an institution, is the most vulnerable pillar in the system of checks-and-balances. Deliberately damaging the authority of the judge is deliberately damaging the rule of law. You're working on that the moment you question the integrity of a judge when he makes an uncomfortable verdict. Then you play from political opportunism or wounded power thinking not on the ball anymore, but on the man. In practice, that is usually a woman. And with that man or woman, you take down the rule of law. You can see it happening in Poland, Russia and the US, but you can also see it in the Netherlands with statements by politicians. My group is very concerned about this. After all, the balance of power is not static. The room that the legislator does not occupy must even be taken by the judge. Rejection of rights is a criminal offence. If you want to change that balance, you will have to look at your own role as legislator. Judgments such as "judges draw power to them" suggest a personal ambition of the judge and are thus damaging to his authority. The Cliteur motion, supported by the SGP, which states that democracy must be the centre of gravity of power in the legislative power, because it alone has a democratic mandate, does not recognise the interdependence and dynamism of the rule of law. That is not the case in a rule of law. No one has the last word. Do the Ministers agree with this view of my group? We're curious. The Remkes Committee has made a proposal to loosen the position of the judge slightly from politics and thus a little less vulnerable to political profiling over the back of the judge. The Committee proposes that the appointment of the members of the Hoge Raad should no longer be made on direct nomination by the Lower House, but that a committee be appointed for this purpose, to be filled jointly by the Hoge Raad and the Second Chamber. This committee shall then make a binding nomination to the Government. My group is pleased that the government has responded positively to this proposal from the State Committee. When are we going to see this in practice? What's the status? How is this completed? The rule of law is primarily for the citizen. Since the WRR report "Knowing is not yet done," we have been alerted to the fact that not every citizen acts rationally, smartly and adequately. His "doing power" is limited. Yet we are making laws increasingly difficult, we are building fatal deadlines and we are charging mistakes hard. This puts the rule of law at a great distance from many citizens. The rule of law is not there for everyone, but only for those who know the way or have the money to figure it out. Therefore, in the event of a conflict, the government must look for the underlying cause. We hang citizens too often on deadlines, digital structures or other formal requirements that many cannot meet. Why don't we embrace President Macron's idea of giving every citizen the right to make a mistake once? In a two-party dispute with the government, the government can and must provide customization; be responsive. In his article "Legislation in a responsive rule of law," Professor Scheltema proposed a new article 3:4a in the Awb. "If the application of a legal rule leads to adverse effects which are disproportionate in relation to the objectives to be served by that rule, and the interested party cannot be criticised, the rule may be waived to the extent necessary to achieve a more balanced application of the rule." Will the Minister for Legal Protection accept this proposal and, if not, why not? Can the Minister for Legal Protection undertake to review the administrative arrangements, including the AWB, in order to see where they need to be further adapted in order to be effectively responsive? How is the Minister for Legal Protection going to realize that executives are actually giving their officials the room to deliver that customization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. I think I know that Mr Recourt and his group would be in favour of this arrangement if I listened to him like that, but it is an interesting point he is making, because it is the heart of part of the discussion. Here you give the judge more space to deliver customization. More customization means less predictability. On that subject, I thought involuntarily of the supplemental affair. For a long time, many lawyers and others have said that the judge should have taken much more room because too many people have been disadvantaged. Is Mr Recourt himself in favour of such an introduction into general administrative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u74	Let's start with: the call is first to the board. I hope that this will even prevent the way to court. At the time when the administration actually hears and sees the citizen, starting from a two-party dispute, in a multi-party dispute, you have to sit tighter as a rule.............................................................................................................................................................................. In the end, that's the job of the judge. He must always have that freedom, but it is primarily up to the board. I certainly do not advocate a completely arbitrary approach, because the law must also be predictable. All those other people who want a solution outside the courts should know about what they can get when they go to court. I am particularly in favour of responsiveness, for the individual approach. We as legislators make generic laws. Individual cases, by definition, do not always fit in with this. This must be seen in order to maintain support under the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u75	But that is often resolved with wider standards, and thus greater discretion for the courts to do justice in the individual case. Then you come to a discussion that has been sparked earlier. That gives the judge more possibilities than he had before. You do that from the legislative point of view, the board's idea that this is more just. Is that the starting point for Mr Recourt's intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u76	No, it's just a different shot. I'll start at the back, in this case the judge. Yes, it must always have the room to deviate in the individual case if the application of generic legislation is unreasonable. You see more and more often in legislation that, for example, a hardness clause is missing or very small, which otherwise gives the judge less room to deviate in the individual case. I'm against that, because that space has to be there. I'm gonna go one step further, because there's got to be that room on the board, too. Make room to deviate from that, as far as I am concerned, clear law with closed standards in the individual case if it does not fit. It is not a plea to create open standards in legislation, rather the opposite. Make clear laws with clear standards that citizens must abide by. Only you realize that a law is a generic means. It doesn't look good on everyone's case. There must be room to deviate. I have a number of concrete suggestions for how this could be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u77	May I ask Mr Recourt how he wants to deal with the precedent and the recognizability?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u78	I would repeat myself, but precedent is very limited if you see the uniqueness of each case. I am not in favour of a government that looks to the left and the right on each individual case, while it is similar in the basics. You have to be predictable, too. The moment there are things where that predictability leads to injustice, you need to give some space. Then you should look at the citizen and say: maybe we overestimated you when it comes to keeping a term. Or you were obliged to go through a digital route, but you didn't do it right. Either you requested the wrong fee, or you didn't request it on time. Let us see what the problem is behind it, rather than imposing a heavy fine immediately because we always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u79	I don't think it's easy, but I'll chew on your idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you. It's a plea for a more repressive... though, repressive...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u81	You continue your argument
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u82	It is certainly not a plea for a more repressive rule of law, but for a rule of law that takes more account of the particular circumstances of individual citizens. I'm gonna find where I left off. Can the Minister, in consultation with the administrative judge himself, look at the judicial review with the aim of adjusting the rules in such a way that the judge can take another step to assess the substance of the dispute as much as possible? I am thinking of the relativization of the formal power of law or the prevention of evidence. For example, you should have said this at the moment A, you didn't, now you're late and the evidence can't be taken. Let's deal with that a little more smoothly. That's how you take the citizen seriously, without always agreeing with him. We are curious whether the Minister for Legal Protection shares our views on this point. Mr. Chairman. I see that time has gone on during the interruption, but this aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u83	Time stopped during the interruption. I turned the clock back on when you resumed your speech. The clock's running now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u84	The relativity of time is a subject in itself. It could just disappear. It is very important that, in a rule of law, all parties know their role, including, for example, the Public Prosecutor. He's an independent magistrate. He must be enabled to act independently and professionally in an individual case. In current practice, cases seem to be frequently decided by a secretary outside the courts, but in the meantime, time and capacity remain very scarce goods. My group is concerned about the state of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the meantime, the Office appears to be merely an efficient and blunt implementation organisation of the Ministry. Bringing the whole chain into one ministry, that of Justice and Security, is rational from an efficiency point of view. My group wants to think more legally. Check-and-balances should be better secured by bringing justice and implementation back to two ministries. My group wants responsible professionals who stand up for the professional values of their work. The government is not a company. What are the Ministers' views on the proposal to return the police to the Ministry of the Interior to organise conflict within the chain? Without access to justice, there is no functioning rule of law. It's as simple as that. Access to justice costs money; money for justice and money for legal aid. Good governance means budgeting for this fundamental part of the rule of law what is needed to provide sufficient quality. The quality of the service is the starting point, the money follows. Of course, funding is not unlimited. They remain collective means that must be handled critically, but it is an element in the substantive consideration. However, this substantive consideration was not made in the financing of the social lawyer. It is not disputed that the current financial compensation of social lawyers is below par, even after the recent increase. My group hopes that the Minister for Legal Protection will support this. The much-needed promised correction comes, if necessary and only years later, as plans to reduce the appeal to lawyers actually bring the necessary money. In the case-law too, as a logical response to the past, the funding has been dominant for too long. Unrealised insecure cuts have already been included in the budget. This does damage that is greater and lasts longer than the cuts have led to. 21,300 criminal cases cannot be dealt with in time due to a shortage of judges, so we read in the newspaper a few days ago. What injustice do many citizens have to experience! My group urges the Minister for Legal Protection to take greater account of what is needed for the future budget rather than what he has left for the whole chain, and in particular for the legal aid financed. Is he willing to do this? If not, how can criminal proceedings be dealt with in a timely and appropriate manner? The same can be said for the amount of the Registry duties. I have looked into the content of the study into the effects of the level of the Registry law on access to justice. I couldn't find who's being held off the judge by this. There is a 2017 WODC investigation, but that mainly looks at the financial figures side of the matter. Are the current high registry fees a reasonable threshold for citizens? Can an optimum be determined between threshold and access? Again, it does not appear to be a substantive examination and debate on the level of the Registry fees, but rather a financially driven tariff. Can the Minister for Legal Protection indicate to me whether there is a substantive investigation and, if so, what are the results of this investigation? Then we can have the political debate on the basis of this information. If such an investigation does not exist, will the Minister initiate it? The Minister for Legal Protection has set out an ambitious plan to amend the system of financing legal aid. Predecessors have also tried and this has failed. My group understands that the Minister works with experiments and builds support for them. I do have a few more questions. Can the Minister compare quality assurance of legal aid by lawyers and non-lawyers? What control and supervision are there of the quality of both groups of legal aid providers? What remedies and complaints are available and are they equally effective? My group is not opposed in principle to further investing legal aid with other than lawyers. We do not want economic motives to determine the system again and we want a race to the bottom to be created within an uneven playing field. Or does the lawyer develop into A-brand for the wealthy and the rest become a B-brand for the poor? Also an undesirable situation. My group is also curious about the position of the Minister for Legal Protection vis-à-vis the public in offering legal aid. The legal profession has a monopoly on large parts of legal aid. This monopoly is partly abandoned. Why do we not also focus on improving the first line and let us give modest public legal aid to the legal counters? This would fit in perfectly with the Minister's intention of experimenting with different plans. I'd like a response. My group welcomes the experiments to resolve disputes outside the courts. Legal dispute resolution is of no use to citizens if this does not solve their problem. The strengthening of mediation in all jurisdictions is close to my group's heart. For all concerned, and therefore for society itself, thinking in recovery is many times more constructive and effective than thinking in reckoning and retribution, although the latter is sometimes needed for recovery. We go to a system in which the mediator is a full and independent profession with associated quality assurance. Hopefully, we will go to a time when all harmful conflicts will reflect on how this damage can be repaired. An intervention which harms the victim cannot be a right of recovery. Alternatives to justice can only function properly as the present provision if access to justice is guaranteed. Parties are challenged to reasonableness by the mediator because they know that the other party can always go to court in case of unreasonableness. In this connection, it is very important that parties are able to predict somewhat what they will get in court, for example alimony, as I say in the direction of Mr Backer. Alternative dispute resolution can therefore only grow in the shadow of justice and with good or non-digital legal aid. I would like to take it a step further: bring the case law into the alternative dispute resolution. If a mediation fails to reach an agreement on a complex divorce on a part, for example on child maintenance, the judge can take the decision in this part dispute, after which the mediation can proceed. Can the Minister promise that this partial dispute settlement will continue to exist in the forthcoming mediation legislation? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In a well-functioning rule of law, it is ultimately about protecting the citizen, not least against the government itself. Citizens, every citizen, must experience legal guarantees of security and justice. The rule of law is there for him or her. This calls for a government that separates itself from efficiency thinking and puts state-of-the-art thinking first. This calls for a government that sees the citizen, individually, for whom it is for. This requires effective access to an effective and authoritative judge. Because where there is no access to justice, the war begins and the rule of law fails. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you to Mr Recourt for his impressive speech. We have not talked about the content, but my own speech will be very similar. I would like to dwell briefly on the issue of the missing rule of law. I find the image of the 298 white chairs for the Russian embassy, of which 3 for our former colleague Witteveen and his wife and daughter, very eloquent. That is the moral side of it, but there is also a very practical side: people no longer go to court, because that is dangerous. This means that an alternative conflict resolution is being sought. Now I'm getting to the point. In the case of the Russian Federation against Yukos, this was done under the arbitration of the ECT, the Energy Charter Treaty. Have you taken note of the ruling of the Hague Court on that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u87	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u88	Let me quote, because it is interesting on two points. There's been a complaint about the arbitrary verdict. This can be done under Dutch arbitration law. Let me just say this, because this debate casts its shadow over forthcoming discussions. It is possible to complain, and that has been done, about the jurisdiction of the arbitration court and ultimately the court of The Hague has said: the authority was competent and the ruling is valid. The court confirms the verdict and condemns the Russian Federation to pay 50 billion damages. Now comes the point of the political judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u89	Can you put the question briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u90	This is an important point, Mr President. Do you think that a judge who receives instructions from politics, in the relationship between the Netherlands and the Russian Federation, where all kinds of other things play, including the trial I mentioned, could speak freely about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u91	That's almost a rhetorical question. It is clear that a judge must rule. I told you so myself. The question put to him or her must be answered. A very few times you can say: I will move this to the sign of politics, because this cannot be done. But in general, you have to step into the space that is given. Apparently, that's what happened here. The judge got this case on his plate and had to see if that arbitrary judgment had to be maintained. Of course, the rule of law is in severe weather at the time of political interference. But fortunately in the Netherlands it is not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. Backer, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u93	I quote it because it's a remarkable statement, but no one's mentioned it. I'm glad we had a moment to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u94	Last but not least, yesterday at the hearing, it became clear that the judge was reluctant in 99.9% of the cases. The Netherlands has no activist justice, and let us not make it so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Then I'll go see Mrs Baay-Timmerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wish colleagues De Blécourt and Veldhoen good luck with their maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. It is already six years ago, in 2014, that the first policy debate on the state of the rule of law took place in this Chamber. The tradition of periodically reviewing the State of the rule of law is not only desirable but even necessary, because a stable rule of law as we know it in the Netherlands is not self-evident. He is constantly under pressure and deserves our never-ending care and attention. Because of the numerous and rapidly interlocking developments in our society, it seems as if concerns about our democratic rule of law are increasing rather than decreasing. The progressive consequences of the serious crime, with the unmistakably low point of the fatal attack on lawyer and judge-alternate Mr. Derk Wiersum in September last year, caused a shock wave of horror and disbelief in our country. The well-known criminal attorney, Mr. Oscar Hammerstein, was the first to call this murder an attack on the rule of law. The President-in-Office of the Council for Justice, Mr Naves, said it aptly in his New Year's speech on 9 January: unfortunately, a gown is not a bulletproof vest. The toga. Once upon a time the symbol of authority and independence evokes a sense of insecurity among its carriers. As many as 59% of lawyers and three quarters of criminal attorneys have indicated this in the investigation carried out by De Balie, published in the Lawyers' Magazine of 31 October 2019. But the safety of judges and prosecutors is also at stake. Additional security for them is unfortunately necessary and even complete anonymity of toga carriers is now being used in criminal proceedings. My group is extremely concerned about these developments. In future, will the pillar of our legal system have to give way to public hearings as laid down in Article 121 of the Constitution for fear of terror? It is precisely in order to obtain the legitimacy of its judgments that justice needs to be made public. Does the Minister share our perception of these developments and what does he say? How is the government going to ensure that toga carriers can carry out their work without fear of repercussions? Is the Minister prepared to provide additional funding for, for example, the provision of resilience training for these target groups? I'd like a comprehensive answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In view of the developments just outlined, the 50PLUS seems to be of great importance to respond to Mr Naves' call for extra secure court capacity, preferably in different types. The existing extra-security sites, the obsolete Bunker and the Justice Complex Schiphol, are already fully scheduled with hearings for serious criminal cases. Attendance at this kind of thing also requires additional adjustments from victims and the media. Is the Minister prepared to consider which locations are suitable for achieving the necessary secure seat capacity and, if so, what time does he intend to come forward with a concrete proposal? I'd like a response from the Minister. We were told by the media on Friday 6 March that due to a lack of capacity for a hearing and the overload of the judiciary, some 23,000 criminal cases cannot be dealt with within the prescribed time limit. What signal does this send to society, I ask the Minister, if the Dutch State is not able to deal adequately with the trial of crimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u97	I have the following question for Mr Baay. You ask for additional capacity when it comes to secure courtrooms and also those 20,000 items that remain on the shelf. How do you see that when it comes to the budget? Justice has been struggling with shortages for years. There's money now. But should the measures that you believe should be taken not be subject to additional financial resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u98	50PLUS would be absolutely in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u99	Do you also make that appeal to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u100	I have literally asked the Minister to release additional financial resources for the security of both the judiciary and the prosecutor. Of course, additional funding is also needed for sitting capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u101	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u102	Following on from the question about the capacity of the session, how will the Minister resolve this problem and when does he think this will be resolved? What means is he going to use for this? Mr. Chairman. The separation of powers, the trias politician, can only work in a pure and clear division of roles, in which each power, the legislative, the executive and the judge, has their own responsibility that is not in question. Blur of the dividing lines runs out the system of checks-and-balances of the trias politician. The essence of the triad is not only an organizational separation of functions, but prevents each power separately from becoming an absolute power, thereby disrupting the equilibrium, the balance of powers. The triad are dependent on each other for the exercise of their powers and each power provides a counterweight against the other powers. Mr. Chairman. This supposed introduction to the separation of powers in this house does not make my group for nothing. Judicial rulings, such as the 2015 Urgenda judgment on accelerated reduction of CO emissions, closure of smoke rooms, ruling of the Supreme Court, and the inclusion of nitrogen policy by the Council of State, are seen by a political party such as the Forum for Democracy as a coup d'état of the judiciary. The leader of the Forum states that judges are increasingly sitting in the legislature's seat. He even talks about a dikastocracy, in which not the democratically elected politicians rule the country but the judiciary. But is this assumption or accusation justified? Are such judgments indeed groundbreaking, whereby the judiciary takes decisions on important political issues with the removal of the legislator? According to 50PLUS, in the judgments outlined above, the judiciary does nothing more than exercise its role, namely to force the authorities and directors to comply with its own laws. Laws, adopted by the Second and First Chambers, thereby securing their democratic content. This image also emerged in yesterday's round table discussion in the House of Representatives, which repeatedly discussed the role, the exact role, of the judge. During the debate on the state of the rule of law on 22 May 2018, I mentioned in my contribution the words of Mr. Van Tongeren, the former general blanket of the Dutch order of lawyers, whom he spoke at the expert meeting of 6 February 2018. In short, this meant that new legislation often does not reflect on the framework within which it is placed and what its effect is in practice. In particular, I would like to refer to this second part, the drafting of legislation in practice. In this house last February we dealt with the Introduction Act Environment Law, legislation with many open standards, as was mentioned earlier. This will undoubtedly lead to more court cases, which will require the courts to implement these open standards through case law. That is nothing new, by the way. Think, for example, of the concept of "force majeure," legally qualified as: "A deficiency cannot be attributed to the debtor if it is not due to his fault, nor to law, legal act or the concept in force in circulation." Judgments have given the meaning of "force majeure." Writing is a colouring of the law or the article of law. The question is whether the judge, if he defines the frameworks of open standards and creates case law, thereby crosses a limit. Or does this mean that those responsible for legislation and decision-making, whether conscious or not, leave further interpretation and interpretation to the judiciary? My group believes that the latter applies. From the interview with the Minister for Legal Protection in the AD of 7 March last, he seems to share this view of my group. He says, "The judge holds us a mirror." That is a very nice metaphor, by the way. My group would like to receive confirmation from the Minister that our interpretation of his statements is the right one. On that basis, my group would like to explain why the Minister has not previously publicly distanced himself from the suggestion that judges should sit in the legislative chair. This image, which has also been taken up in the media here and there, can cause the general public to question the integrity of judges. Is evoking that doubt in itself a signal that confidence in the democratic rule of law is shrinking? If so, what possibilities does the Minister see for restoring this confidence in the judiciary? Mr. Chairman. I come now to the position of the victim in criminal law. The campaign Het Witte Balkje, organised by the organisation Victim Help The Netherlands, stands for the protection of the privacy of victims. A rule of law should protect citizens, especially those who have been victims of crime, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u103	I should like to add my voice to the point made by Mrs Baay. She's talking about the mirror. Of course also very visual is especially sitting on the chair of the legislator; that stays huge. I would like to remind you of the considerations of the Advocate General in the Urgenda judgment. Then he says: the doctrine of the trias politician does not mean that the judge in a procedure where the government is party should never sit in the chair of the legislator. In fact, Dutch administrative procedural law offers those opportunities. If the administrative judge declares an appeal well founded, he may annul the administrative decision and do so himself. So he's on that chair, legitimized by the legislator. Do you think that an arrangement that fits within the triad, or do you think that "we should do something about it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u104	We should not think that legislation can always be defined on a drawing table in such a way that there is no interpretation other than grammatical or legal history, because the practice is always more rigid than the legislation coming from the drawing table. We saw this earlier in Mr Recourt's contribution. When there is room for interpretation, it will depend on the individual case over and over again, or that will ultimately lead to an acceptable conclusion and an acceptable position through the generic law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u105	I think we agree on this, but I was concerned about that picture of that chair, because the legislator simply wanted the administrative judge to take a decision in administrative procedure to solve an administrative problem. My question was: do you still think that is a fair settlement, or do you think that should be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u106	Apologies, because I would not have fully understood the question. If you want to change that, of course you have to change the legislation. I personally do not see a lot of problems in that either, because we talk about the separation of powers every time, but it is sometimes more of a spread of powers and there are, of course, possibilities that make an exact dividing line not always clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u107	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u108	Mr. Chairman. So it was about the privacy of victims. For 50PLUS, this means that victims are entitled to identity protection. They are entitled to anonymity, so that they do not have to appear in the media with name, address and sometimes even photos, against their will and without permission. The White Bar is a derivative of the black bar, which contains suspects and/or perpetrators in photographs. It symbolizes analog application of privacy protection for victims. Since 25 May 2018, we have to comply with the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation, with some bizarre effects. On the website of the sports club, a photo of the winning team may not be placed, as this may harm the privacy of one of the members. But what can be done is that a victim is named in national magazines and that photos of the home address are published, indicating all kinds of personal data about children and partners, for example. Victims and Victims Support The Netherlands and the National Lawyers Network Victims of Violence and Victims, abbreviated LANGZS, have rightly been presented by President Richard Korver, despite a so-called White Paper to the Minister for Legal Protection in which it is argued that this unacceptable violation of victims' privacy should be brought to an end. 50PLUS believes that the government has the task and the responsibility to conclude with the Dutch Association of Journalists and the Dutch Society of Editors the same gentlemen's agreement for victims, such as the media used to protect the identity of suspects. My group will be glad to hear from the Minister for Legal Protection whether he intends to take action in the near future. Otherwise, I will table a motion for that in the second term. Finally, Mr President. In view of what I have said before about the increase in serious crime and its influence in criminal law, I conclude with a quote by Hendrik van Randwijk, a quote that is often quoted by a friend of his: "A people who succumb to tyrants will lose more than body and good; then the light goes out..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse has the floor for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Veldhoen, who will also give her maiden speech later today. I've been told it's good use to add a personal note to a maiden speech. Well, let me do that right away. Mr. Chairman. As you may know, I have been dealing for a long time with the issue of diversity, particularly the issue of women. At the age of 25 I started my working life at Baker & McKenzie, at the time Caron & Stevens. The founder of the office, Willem Stevens, was my great example, not least because he was sitting in the First Chamber. Who could have thought that I would follow in his footsteps so many years later, even if it was for another party? Would he himself have predicted all those years ago that he would be succeeded by a woman? Willem, welcome back to this house. Also today I look up to you and not just because you're higher on the balcony. As you were and are an example to me, I hope to be another example for younger women and men and for my children, one of whom is also on the balcony. Mr. Chairman. We are in the chambre de réflexion, a name that we should not ignore too lightly, precisely because that reflection in our present society, where we often live in the delusion of the day, is crucial to the testing of laws. The democratic rule of law is the foundation of our society and on the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index 2019 the Netherlands is in an excellent fifth place. The Netherlands is doing well if you compare it with Poland, for example. A strong democratic rule of law is essential to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing and fragmented society in confidence. We must be vigilant, because there are threats to our rule of law as well. The threats that I will be considering longer today, after more general consideration, are access to justice and security. In our democratic rule of law, power and opposition balance; it has been appointed more often today. It is precisely this balance that is lacking in Poland, for example, where reforms have led to a reduction in the powers of the Constitutional Court, a controversial media law and more influence of politics on the judiciary. But there is something else missing, something that is fundamental to a democratic rule of law, namely the freedom to be critical, in order to be able to conduct the dialogue. Mr. Chairman. Recently, a number of judgments in the Netherlands have caused a lot of controversy. These statements lead to reflection. The great thing about the Netherlands is that we are free to discuss judicial decisions with each other. We can even criticize that. The debate is, as it were, an apprehension of the rule of law. It sometimes calls for legislation to be updated if we do not agree with judicial decisions. The rule of law is therefore never finished. After debate and reflection, he will be able to be adjusted a little by legislative changes. Fortunately, there is room for that in the Netherlands. For the legislative power, that offers an excellent moment to look in the mirror, where we have the mirror again, and to ask ourselves how we can contribute to the reform of the rule of law. It is important to remain in discussion and to be aware of and open to the input of the judiciary and the executive as legislative power in conjunction with the wider society. This always with respect for the separation of powers as the foundation of our society. In this way, legislation can be improved in such a way as to make it easier for society to accept it and feel heard. After all, the legislative power has the task of creating laws in direct contact with citizens even after the elections, not as a reflex on an incident, but as a long-term focus on stability and sustainability. Mr. Chairman. Legislation must not come about too lightly, but only after reflection and thorough review of the Constitution, treaties and case law. That's exactly what I want to work for in the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the two issues that play an important role in our rule of law: access to justice and undermining crime. The right to demonstration is one of the achievements of our democratic rule of law and is enshrined in Article 9 of the Constitution. It contributes to maintaining our democratic rule of law. Over the past year a lot has been demonstrated in the Netherlands. In this context, farmers, teachers, construction, schoolchildren, health care and......................................................................................................................................................................................... The social lawyers demonstrated for access to justice and against cuts in the system of funded legal aid. In its annual report, the College of Human Rights also indicated that access to justice is under pressure. We must realise that if access to justice is put under pressure, trust in the rule of law will also be put under pressure. During the last year, the debate focused in particular on the knowledge of the registry rights and the legal assistance financed. This is important because access to justice must be guaranteed for everyone, including those who are less active. This is inherent in a strong rule of law. But access to justice for the middle class is just as important. The system review of legal aid and socially effective justice should gradually provide a necessary solution for overburdened judges and high costs, focusing on innovation and further digitisation. Mr. Chairman. Currently there are pilots running to see if access to the right can be shaped in a more accessible and different way. The VVD welcomes this, and in particular the fact that the initiatives are based on a need from society and are small-scale and local. This makes it possible to assess in a clear way whether the idea actually works and whether it brings what the right-seekers had expected from it. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the VVD considers it important to evaluate the pilots at regular intervals, but it considers it especially important to make the coherence between the different pilots clear, while not forgetting the higher goal. This is also important for the opinion of the judge. May I ask the Minister how he is going to ensure that those seeking justice can find their way and that the overview and coherence between the pilots is not lost? The VVD Group would like to ask the Minister how he will ensure that everyone in the Netherlands, including lawyers and judges, are ready in time to cope with these digital and innovative changes. I would like to close by asking the Minister for a longer-term vision of the problem that is far wider in the Netherlands, namely how justice can bind the right people from the market and provide a safe and healthy working environment. Have any steps been made there? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to safety. With a seventeenth place on the Global Peace Index of 2019, the Netherlands, compared to many other countries, is a safe country to live in. However, security in the Netherlands also has threats. Today I will consider one of these threats, and that is organised crime. Serious organised crime is often undermining. This is not only about the underworld that infiltrates the upper world, but also about disrupting cohesion in neighbourhoods, systematically violating legal standards, intimidation, bribery of citizens, businesses, administrators and the administration. Serious organized crime has changed. Criminals have invested significantly in the upper world and in their defensive information security in recent years. Examples include secure online drug markets, Hansa Market, secure telecommunications, Ennetcom, and secure hosting, CyberBunker. Criminals have also stepped up their offensive security. For example, the sad event of 18 September 2019: the liquidation of lawyer Derk Wiersum. It's been mentioned before today. Criminals also use legal and financial security. Mr. Chairman. In my view, the public authorities face the great challenge of acting effectively against it. If that fails, it will fundamentally affect our rule of law. The challenge we face is how to define the concept of effective action against undermining in order to maintain our democratic rule of law. Tackling criminal security must not be at the expense of our own security, the security and privacy of citizens as individuals and the security of society as a whole. Let me explain. Mr. Chairman. In 2020, the government will focus on undermining, in particular on drug trafficking and criminal money flows. A package of undermining legislation is likely to reach the First Chamber this year. Undermining has many faces. For example, we see international and also digital campaigns to undermine the rule of law and democratic institutions. This is also linked to the undermining of women's and women's rights, which require a different kind of approach. New forms of crime may require new forms of detection. The VVD Group believes that it is appropriate to take a critical look at the organisation and capabilities of the police and the cooperation between police, justice and people in the field (police, municipal authorities and mayors), but that attention is also paid to the way in which they are detected in a rapidly changing environment. A social and social offensive in disadvantaged neighbourhoods is essential. It is necessary to focus on visible enforcement of the rule of law through the use of the district agent with local justice. The challenge for police and justice is to keep track of the complexity of serious organised crime and to deal with it. It requires a change in the way of detection that is consistent with the changing society. The successful approach of the aforementioned security providers, Hansa Market, CyberBunker and Ennetcom, shows that this is an era of large amounts of abstract evidence. This means that we need to connect data sources and invest in data science, among other things, to identify suspicious patterns and to use vulnerabilities in criminal security. Mr. Chairman. This information age calls for data-driven counter-undermining, but that raises questions about the current interpretation of legal principles such as data minimising and retention and providing police data to third parties to effectively combat undermining. At the same time, I realise that this requires careful consideration of our fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights, in which citizens are protected from the violations of criminals but also from the violation of our privacy. Could I ask the Minister his views on this issue in that context? Is there any vision of data-driven control and detection? If so, could I ask the Minister how he deals with the privacy dilemma? Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister how effective intervention on undermining is measured if it does not result in a criminal case but it does achieve an adequate disruption of the criminal business model. The same question the VVD has with regard to the district agent. Surely it cannot be that the efficiency of the district agent can be called into question because his or her work cannot be measured in sufficient criminal or documented contact hours? Mr. Chairman. The changing social and digital society requires a different kind of capabilities and qualities of police and prosecutor staff. Programmes to improve career prospects and a safe and healthy working environment are essential. Could I ask the Minister to reflect on the possible measures he intends to take to ensure that the police and the public prosecutor will be able to attract, retain and train the right people and to provide their own people with an improved career perspective and a safe and healthy working environment, especially in order to combat high-quality crime? May I ask the Minister how he looks at the university detective training that Professor P.J. ... fromKopen, now that within three years 15,000 detectives will be needed? Mr. Chairman. That's how I come to my conclusion. Our rule of law is never finished. We need to keep talking about it. Not every man is sold in his own pillar within the trias politician, but in connection with the pillars and in contact with the complex society. We, as legislators, must dare to look at the power in the mirror. We need to reflect, after which the state of the rule of law can be improved without disrupting the balance. The rule of law deserves protection, especially in a rapidly changing, fragmented digital world. Good laws are indispensable. Montesquieu, the founder of the trias politician, put this correctly: "Something is not right because it is the law; but it must be the law, because it is right." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. Please stand still. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After studying civil and tax law at the University of Leiden, you started working as an attorney associate at the Baker McKenzie law firm in Amsterdam in 1990. Nine years later, you became an international partner and head of the Amsterdam section on labour law and pensions at the same office. From 2003 to 2007 you were also a member of the Board of Directors of Baker McKenzie. You are also a board member of the African Parks Foundation and of the American European Community Association, which aims to promote dialogue on economic and political matters. You are also chairman of the Rutgers Supervisory Board, the knowledge center sexuality. Recently your memoirs, entitled "Freedom Fighted. My unfamiliar path to the top," in which you write about why you started to work for, in your words, the "women's case." That was the moment when you were passed as a possible partner and a male colleague became a partner. You realized that men and women weren't being watched with the same glasses. This experience led you to set up Women on Top in 2006 with a number of others, who wanted to put an end to the men's cartel. You also contributed to a law on a balanced distribution of seats between men and women on the board of directors and the supervisory board of large companies. When the law was passed in this Chamber on May 31, 2011, Women on Top immediately lifted up. The legal targets had fulfilled the main objective of increasing the number of women in top positions. In daily Trouw, you recently found that the effect of the law may be limited, because hiring women is not an obligation. You said, I quote: 'Maybe we should take tougher measures'. In the same interview you also discussed your First Parliamentary Membership for the VVD. I quote again: "I often have a big mouth. If I think I can do better, then I have to take responsibility. It also offers me a new platform to bring the women's case to the attention." We're looking forward to it. Once again, welcome. I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members can congratulate you. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations. As chairman, I would like to congratulate you first. As previously recalled, this happens without shaking hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u112	I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to congratulate Mrs De Blécourt, who is right outside this Chamber for her clear and evocative speech, I suspect, but she can look back on this. Exactly. I also think this will be an attachment in her memoirs. My expectations were high and they have come true. These high expectations also apply to Mrs Veldhoen. I wish her every success in holding her maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Justice raises a people! That is a beautiful ancient sentence in the Bible that you can meditate on or see reflected in the history of the peoples, or in the development of the democratic rule of law. But in addition to reason for reflection, it is mostly also an assignment. A mission that the Church father Augustine already mentioned as the task of the government: to promote justice. Without justice, arbitrariness prevails, and what makes the state different from a robber gang? Today's debate has a heavy load for the Christian Union group. We have the democratic rule of law and we see the important task of doing justice in this way: accessible, independent and reliable, no matter what the times. The previous debates on the state of the rule of law have analysed in detail how and where the rule of law cracks. I would like to mention the shortcomings, accessibility and organisation of justice. The subsidised legal aid. The national police and the challenges there. The changing times surrounding digitalization and the new questions it raises. The establishment of the Ministry of Justice and Security. The rise of the undermining serious crime and the impact of years of austerity. More or less successfully, ministers have already made every effort to formulate legislation and policies in these areas, or at the beginning of them. And I would like to express my appreciation in that regard. That doesn't mean that everything is finished. On the contrary, I will put questions on several of these points and express the concerns of my group. But I'll start with two questions that go deeper. The first is: what can the rule of law cost us? What is needed financially and materially for a good basic level? That question was not asked enough at the time of the cuts under previous Cabinets and led to a very cold cheese bowl being obtained on everything, including those tasks of the government that we consider to be its core. With too great a hollowing out of the base of police, prosecutor's office and justice. A poorly functioning government is the concrete rot of the rule of law. It is precisely for this reason that my group has wholeheartedly signed the motion for a resolution by Mr Rosenmöller, who is asking for research on this very point. The Christian Union is determined to prevent a subsequent recession, if it were to come and likely to come, from the basis of the chain getting another tap. The belt's been quoted enough by now. It is time for the rule of law and justice, I stress, to come and stay on sound weight. There is therefore still a lot to be done on many fronts. The broad social reviews did not mention the basis of the rule of law. It is not a subject of study. That is precisely why we stress this point. I would like to hear the Ministers on both the commitment, timing and implementation of the motion on this point. It is an invitation to use this open hands to seize and make a firm effort. To be honest, when reading the documents we received, I was surprised that the preparations have not gone further. Do the Ministers realize that a strong and sound answer can mean something to the electoral programmes that are now being drawn up and that they are trying to be the measure of things for the coming years? When are the results? I had hoped for action in addition to care, and I call on the ministers to do so. I would ask them to mention a sensible moment today when the results of the questions put in the motion will be known. And I would ask the Minister to broaden the scope of the motion a little bit more. One of the lessons of recent years is also that the intelligence and security services and the NCTV have too easily abandoned expertise and have had to make cuts that the Netherlands later broke up. In times of jihadism on the one hand and polarization of far right and left on the other, we cannot afford to repeat that error. Can the Minister promise that when the Rosenmöller motion is put into effect? Will the fight against terrorism and the intelligence and security services also be taken into account? The second point that my group is keen to stress today is the protection of the core principles of the rule of law. Today, in this context, I mention the trias politicians: the three distinctive powers who, by means of a good balance, support the rule of law and the rule of law. There's been a lot of talk in this house about the judge's position. I want to be clear about that. The judge promotes justice from his own position. That is a great good thing, and precisely because of the importance of that own position, the other two powers, and therefore politicians, have to be reluctant to speak about justice. Every representative of the people can be expected to carry out and strengthen the rule of law. Our political-democratic culture contributes to this for the better or for the worse. Judges are neither political nor their judgments. Yes, there may be criticism of a court ruling and of the interpretation of a law article, but my group will always be strongly opposed when it is insinuated that judges operate politically. That is not the case in the Netherlands, and we are all there. Also in the design and interpretation of a law. I am pleased that the Minister for Legal Protection expressed himself this weekend in similar terms in the media and strongly encourage him and the Minister of Justice to do so again where necessary and appropriate. Stand for justice, stand for the rule of law, for monitoring relations in the trias. When we look at the budget, there have been a number of elements on which my group would also like to exchange views with the ministers. I'll start with access to justice. This Chamber adopted the Backer motion, under which the system of changes in the legal aid financed will go through the appropriate legislative process. The Minister has agreed to carry out that motion. I'm happy about that, but it's gonna be a while before we get there. In the meantime, the pilots are running, the minister is looking for the most appropriate system and he has tried with the commitment of 73 million to alleviate the worst need for social law. The Christian Union Group underlines the importance of a well-functioning system and sees the added value of a number of pilots. But we do not have an important question in the current studies. Is there a clear view of who is being obstructed in access to justice, and in what areas? Take, for example, the decline in the appeal to the judge in dismissal cases. Is this because of legislation, because of its own contribution, because of the economic situation or because of tax matters, where the decline has also been significant in recent years? Unfortunately, this was not due to the state's attitude to the trial. When financial measures are taken by the cabinet, everyone is always quick to get there with all kinds of purchasing power cards. As far as access to justice is concerned, my group would like a similar recurring scan, also in order to get an idea of where the obstacles really lie. For example, people who are just not eligible for legal aid, such as the lower middle class. A group that is already certain is that of small entrepreneurs within SMEs. Then it's the smaller claims. I know that the Minister is proposing a shift in the rights of the Registry for Citizens and the smaller claims of entrepreneurs to facilitate access to justice. But does he have a picture of how our system works out for SMEs, for small entrepreneurs? For example, take registry law in the Yukos case. This is not at all proportionate to the commitment involved. But the other way around, small entrepreneurs are still leaving at the moment, because of the level of registry law. I see opportunities for the Minister to improve access to justice on this point. Here too, however, it is beginning to put the facts in order, which analyse and thus have sufficient focus where businessmen, consumers and citizens in other matters are hampered too much in the search for justice. I hope that future legislative proposals on this issue will provide an appropriate solution and are strongly supported. I would like the Minister to give me a commitment on that. At various times I have already mentioned the great threat of organized serious crime because of the position that the Netherlands unfortunately takes when it comes to drugs. I have also expressed my appreciation on several occasions for the cabinet's commitment to putting measures and resources into action to combat them. The state of the rule of law is currently being tested by the shocking liquidations of the brother and the lawyer of a key witness. Today, I wholeheartedly support all those who experience the difficult consequences of this every day and also those who crack into their operational joints to implement the necessary security measures, but do so every day. I appreciate that very much. Serious crime must not be given the illusion that it will gain from the rule of law and that its rules do not apply to them. That will require a lot of us in the coming years. Reading and speaking with experts, my group still sees opportunities for support for the Minister of Justice. As far as we are concerned, he is able to pull on a number of his colleagues in the cabinet. Let me start with the Treasury Department. In serious crime, billions go around and the underworld and the upper world are, unfortunately, increasingly interwoven in many places. That also affects the banking sector. Yes, there is an approach to money laundering, but no, there is insufficient systematic understanding of the vulnerabilities in our financial system when it comes to serious crime. And no, we don't just solve that with criminal law. We need fiscalists, financial lawyers. I call on the Minister to make this clear. Then the follow-up can certainly include legislation that will enable the banking sector to intercept and deter even more criminal assets, but first the facts again. Is the Minister prepared to have an investigation, together with the Minister of Finance, into the vulnerability and integrity of the financial system in relation to serious crime? I'd like a commitment. I am considering a motion on this point, but I very much hope that it does not need to be raised. Whether it concerns shrinking regions, the rehabilitation of pig stables in the south, the increase in drug dumping by the country, all this cannot be solved. Can the Minister explain how this is and remains a shared responsibility of the relevant trade ministries? I also mention, for example, the port where the speed of transit and the number of customs officers make a big difference. On these points, I would like to encourage the Minister of Justice to hang out with his colleagues and, where necessary, to drag them in to tackle this problem. Because pushing on one, drug-crime, usually gives a shift to another. And, unfortunately, criminals generally don't go cookies, so far. Can the Minister underline that the commitment to the other priorities, in particular human trafficking, will not be affected by the extra commitment to undermining? On this point, too, I expect the necessary ambition and, above all, action from the cabinet, especially in relation to the legislative agenda proposed in the coalition agreement. There are also topics that have been discussed a little less here. One of these is the digital disruption, for which the Scientific Council for Government Policy strongly warns us. Disruptions or attacks on digital infrastructure can still have too easy consequences for society and government and have a major impact on the democratic rule of law. The traditional instruments of government are not sufficiently tailored to these challenges. And that while the Netherlands is a country that is extremely digitized. We already saw with the problems surrounding Citrix and the previous 112 malfunction how vulnerable we are at this point and also that the government sometimes depends on private parties when it comes to vital infrastructure. The cybersecurity report of the NCTV underlines once again that there is a really big task here. I haven't seen the cabinet response to the WRR report yet. I don't know if it's been published, but the report's been there since August. I read in the various reports really great urgency. Let us not wait until that urgency is clearly underlined by another incident. This needs to be much tighter on the agenda. I ask the Minister how he will follow up the WRR's report and the NCTV's cybersecurity reports. I started my contribution by saying that justice increases a people. The important task of the government is to serve and promote that justice. Just as the bearer of that justice, there must be no doubt that you can trust the government. We see in all kinds of areas how mistrust and polarisation in our society are gaining ground. I see investment, including through material means, in a strong democratic rule of law as a key element in promoting trust. The quality that the government delivers is very important. Access to the right to actually obtain it is therefore very important. The approach to undermining elements must be taken by all of us with vision and sound policies. In doing so, these ministers face a difficult task which can contribute greatly to promoting confidence in our institutions. But serving that righteousness is not only theirs, but also ours. Therefore, let this debate on the state of the rule of law be a moment of reflection on how we promote law, how we talk about the rule of law. I am happy to discuss this with colleagues and, of course, the two directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mrs De Blécourt. I wish Mr Veldhoen every success. Mr. Chairman. Do you ever get that picture stuck in your head for months? A few years ago I had that very strong with that photo in which in May 1936 in Hamburg a crowd of good men brought the Heil-Hitler greeting to Hitler who came to visit, but one man did not. He just stood there. That was courage! A similar feeling, but of a very different order, crowned me more than a year and a half ago with a photo on which three Dutch judges in Warsaw were surrounded by a horde of photographers and journalists. They had travelled to Poland two days after a legislative change had been made by the ruling PiS party, which deliberately reduced the age limit for mandatory retirement of judges. This would result in the involuntary dismissal of many of the government's displeasure judges. Kees Strong, the Dutch President of the European Network of Councils for Justice, Maarten Feteris, the President of our Supreme Court, and Marc de Werd, the Chief Judge of the Council of Europe, then stood up to that. That was courage too! But, as I said, of a completely different order than in the first example. With their lightning visit to the threatened president of the Polish Supreme Court, they wanted to express their support for her and her colleagues. The visit had two effects. The Polish judiciary was encouraged to continue its fight for independent justice and the European Commission was asked to act. We now know the outcome. The Commission, under the leadership of another Dutchman, Frans Timmermans, took interim measures and the European Court ruled shortly thereafter that dismissal should not be affected. Mr. Chairman. Why have the Dutch made such efforts to protect the state of the rule of law in Poland? Kees Strong said about this in the Financial Daily: "In Poland and Hungary you see systematic undermining of the judiciary. This is not yet the case in Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia, but they show copying behaviour." This undermines the European legal order which is based on the rule of law which simply means that everyone is bound by the law, that independent judges determine what the law means and that is based on a separation of powers. The European Union is based on mutual trust, and if other European countries and their citizens and businesses are no longer able to rely on respectful justice in Poland, then our European community of values is crumbling. The leading professor of European Law in London, Laurent Pech, even ruled, "that the House of European Law is on fire." Mr. Chairman. It is good to note that the Dutch took the lead in the protection of the European Rule of Law. In our country, too, the relevant principles have been enshrined in the Constitution since 1848. In international rankings, our Dutch rule of law still scores very high. It was said earlier this morning. And yet a strong rule of law is not self-evident here in this country either. He's asking for permanent maintenance. I am thinking not only of strengthening the legal guarantees, new rules and maintaining the budgets for the institutional guardians of the rule of law, but also of maintaining a healthy culture, a respectful relationship between legislator and judiciary, and not to mention the humanisation of key positions in the institutions crucial to the rule of law, such as the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Ministry of Justice and Security. Let me put it first: our Dutch democratic rule of law is fortunately not yet under any real threat, but there is reason for concern now regularly to the authority of the institutions whose task is to guard the position of minorities, which is being gnawed by growing populism. Apart from the fact that groups of citizens think that the law does not apply to them. Earlier in this house I quoted the book "How democratics die." The writers Levitsky and Ziblatt warn in their study of the gradual erosion of democracies in Europe and Latin America. Not as in the past along the abrupt path of revolution or military coup, but through a subtle process of gradual erosion by limiting the possibilities for a free press and by influencing independent justice; institutions which now function as "gatekeepers', as gatekeepers of our democratic rule of law. In dealing with the bill for an experiment with a closed coffee shop chain, I asked the Minister of Justice and Security to come up with a delta plan against the undermining drug crime, because here lies one of the greatest current threats to our rule of law. I am not going to repeat today's arguments for a much-needed offensive against the disruptive consequences of this undermining that has been going on for decades now. However, I would like to ask the Minister what progress has been made in implementing the motion he has taken over. More specifically, I would like to ask whether the authors of the motion can count on all four elements mentioned in the motion to be given due consideration: repression, prevention, strengthening the resilience of neighbourhoods and appealing to sectors sensitive to undermining to take their own responsibility. The first one's okay with this minister. Reinforcement of CID's got his full attention. Perhaps the decision to create a special unit has been taken a little too quickly, because now mayors are moaning all over the country under the pull of district agents. How does the Minister intend to respond to this? Does one district agent out of 5,000 residents, 80% of whom are in the neighborhood, remain the parolee? And is the decision to release 500 police officers to permanently secure large numbers of judges and other servants of the rule of law not worth reconsidering? Has this decision not been taken too impulsively? Should it not be considered to return to the premise that personal security is based on concrete information and threat, i.e. on a certain predictability, rather than what seems to apply now on the basis of a certain imagination, that it can happen? For I would like to ask the Minister, at the beginning of this cabinet period, were you not well on your way to repair the discounts on the police of Rutte I in particular? And does this in itself make sense, let there be no misunderstanding about it, is it not again that the horse is tensed behind the cart? Otherwise, there is the second element in the motion: prevention, raising awareness of vulnerable groups of the risks of drug use. Perhaps we should have invited Secretary of State Blokhuis here today, because we in the CDA Group have of course taken note of all the policy letters that the cabinet exchanges with the two Chambers. On paper, that policy looks pretty good, but I've never seen a billboard that makes it clear to the Dutch that drugs aren't normal. Let alone a government campaign that constantly warns our young people about the health effects. Could I ask the leaders here, how much longer do we have to wait before the cabinet finally adds the act to the speech? Then there is the third element in the motion: strengthening the neighbourhoods. There's a lot to say about this. I do not want to do that today, because I know from my own long-standing experience as mayor of a medium-sized town how much time and effort this requires and how dependent these ministers are on their colleagues in the cabinet and even more on local partners, who are responsible for youth care, community development and education. Let me just ask the following question. Do the leaders with the CDA Group share the view that tackling the drug crime so undermining for our rule of law requires an approach that goes beyond this and the next cabinet period; an approach for which the term "deltaplan" better covers the load than that of "contours note"? Finally, the fourth element of the motion: calling on sectors sensitive to undermining on their own responsibility to put their own house in order. Is the CDA Group's impression that the cabinet is still the most aware of this challenge, this fourth element? Whereas it is precisely here that should apply: Cabinet, divide the work and rule! Invite the automotive industry to come up with proposals for what they can contribute to reducing undermining. I mention the organizers of the dance festivals, the domes of the lawyers, the notaries, the brokers and not to mention the local authorities, the municipalities. Is the cabinet prepared to appoint a special Commissioner to speed up the process as a sort of outboard engine? Mr. Chairman. Friends and enemies agree that the pillars of our rule of law, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are not sufficiently prepared for the new forms of crime: the worrying increase in cybercrime, the drug crime that has been haunting for decades and the Internet fraud that is mainly used to swindle older people and other vulnerable citizens. What has grown uneven over the past few decades requires a strong, structural and long-term response from the government. Some short, quick blows in one cabinet period will not suffice to eradicate this evil. My group has wholeheartedly supported the Rosenmöller motion, which called for an independent investigation into a long-term vision and continuity in the financing of the rule of law. We would like to know what is going on with the implementation of this motion. Our rule of law is as strong as the pillars on which it is built. The state in which these pillars are located should be monitored continuously. That is essentially the essence of our debate today. Cuts in the recent past and attacks inside and outside his police, justice weakened and delayed maintenance was created. If these institutions are to continue to be able to carry out their current and future tasks, restoration and structural reinforcement are inevitable: costly recovery and non-committal investment, now and in the following cabinet periods. But more is needed, Mr. Chairman. Maintaining a solid rule of law also requires something from us, from us as legislators: self-limitation, restraint, respect, space and trust in the direction of the guardians of the rule of law. And this has been increasingly lacking in recent years. As long as a case is under the courts, legislators and management should refrain from commenting. However, you and I have noticed that this has been increasingly called for by many people's representatives. But the fact that statements don't come out politically well and lead to discussion doesn't mean that the institution isn't right? In our country too, politicians use rhetoric with which they dismiss judges as elites who represent the interests of a particular social class and undermine the authority of the judiciary by making late-thinking statements about the integrity of judges. Speaking of right-wing and D66 judges, or blaming judges sitting on the legislature's seat affects the authority of the institute. In De Groene Amsterdammer Herman Tjeenk Willink rightly pointed out that the judge in our system of checks-and-balances by definition has a power-critical function that the legislator should take into account. He raised the question of how solid a democratic rule of law is still if, from the heart of representative democracy, the position of the judge is questioned without contradiction. If you do this, then what is still a question from Herman Tjeenk Willink? The fundamental difference with the developments in other European countries that we say we are concerned about? Mr. Chairman. Let us leave people's representatives outside this house: representatives of education and industry. We all take that appeal to heart: those of us who were being obstinate and let those who, like my own group, let it be undisputed. In the Netherlands that we want to pass on, the rule of law is still standing before the CDA and the separation of powers is fully respected. Finally, Mr. Chairman. Let us, as legislators, give room and confidence to the pillars of our rule of law and not assume the presumption that nothing should go wrong in the police and in the judiciary. Not set up an ax or meatlipping day after every incident. This will only lead to a culture of fear, leading to risk-avoidance. That's not supposed to happen, is it? A solid rule of law requires strong institutions with powerful leaders who are not afraid. Men and women who radiate authority, who speak with authority about the important work they and their colleagues have to do and who, from their years of experience and craftsmanship with seniority, dare to resist government and parliament if this is necessary and can act not only as guardians of their own organisation, but also of the rule of law as a whole. This calls for authoritative figures for the national police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, as well as the Ministry of Justice and Security. Strong personalities with whom the Dutch citizen knows the public interest in good hands. Drivers who know how to use their knowledge and experience gained in years. Leaders who are willing to remain in their posts for a longer period of time and are also enabled to do so by their political bosses and who do not have to change positions every three to five years according to the disastrous example of the General Administration. This really does not serve a stable rule of law. It is said quite easily that rotation of functions, especially at the top, would be functional and refreshing. That's possible, but the opposite also occurs. Long-term function enables development and deepening, processing past experiences and lessons, so that you can rise above them again. The grace of the long line called professors Tops and Weterings this. Former Minister Molly Geertsema once spoke the winged words: six years to sow, six years to harvest and six years to rust. Mr. Chairman. How different is the present reality. I'm looking at the Justice Ministers. The Dutch Justice Summit has been completely replaced in recent months, while a strong rule of law will benefit from peace, stability and continuity. Mr President, through you, may I ask these rulers whether they, with the CDA Group, consider that our rule of law is not served by such rapid changes? Can they promise that the short deadlines applicable to the General Administrative Service will not be used, and not unconsciously, for top positions in the national police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Judicial Board and related institutions? For is it not essential for these institutions that their leaders not only have time to sow, but, so to speak, are they also obliged to look into the harvest, the effects of their seed work? In a more general sense, my group would like to ask the cabinet to look at the system of job rotation within the state service, now that a NRC survey has confirmed what many people have suspected for a long time, namely that this over-rigid policy has led to a'scareful, uncertain and inward-looking world, where knowledge of content, the reality of the outside and the public interest is against obsessive protection of the image of ministers'. That would be brave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u116	I would like to wholeheartedly support Mr Rombouts' appeal. He already extended his request to the entire cabinet. I believe that this should be done, because the General Administrative Service will be the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I think he has a very important point which at first sight may not belong to the rule of law, but ultimately belongs to it, especially for the departments he is talking about. There is a risk that the politicisation of administrative and substantive work will ultimately lead to a weakened rule of law. Mr President, in that sense, this is not really an interruption but an understatement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u117	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Then I'll go to Mrs. Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs De Blécourt for her maiden speech and Mrs Veldhoen for her maiden speech. I'll go loose, as it's called. In a rule of law, the power of a state as well functioning is regulated and restricted by law. This means that not only the citizen but also all the organs of the state are bound by the law. And without justice, everything becomes crooked. The Netherlands has been in this curved phase for several years. It's getting crooked and crazier. Mr. Chairman. It appears that the government, government, politics and public administration are to a large extent guilty of the current situation. This is done by irresponsible cuts in security, justice, police and care in recent years, to mention just a few examples. The way in which money is made available is more like panic football than it solves and eliminates structural need. All we have to do is read the papers, and the messages are flying around our ears. There is a complete deadlock in the case-law because almost 23,000 criminal cases cannot be dealt with on time. At the moment, it takes almost 14 months for a criminal case to go to court. Fourteen months, Chairman! And all this by cutting back on the justice system in the wrong way and by cutting back on the wrong way. Although that's not the only reason why victims sometimes have to wait three to four years for a case to come to trial. Courts are becoming increasingly complex because more and more experts and interpreters need to be deployed. There is also increasing attention to all kinds of problems underlying the criminal behaviour of suspects. This is a poignant reality for victims. Instead of focusing on the recovery of victims, there is too much focus on trying to understand the defendant's behavior. I'd like a response from the Minister. And then the police. Here too, we see the consequences of years of austerity. There too, there is no time to respond to a changing society that is largely caused by the unbridled influx of migrants. Migrants of whom by far most adhere to Islam. During the interrogations of the Dutch Parliamentary Committee that conducted research into foreign funding of mosques and Islamic organisations in the Netherlands, everyone was able to hear what we have been saying about Islam for years. Our legal system does not seem to be able to get a grip on this very destructive development. Mr. Chairman. The police were not prepared for other forms of crime, including cybercrime, and very violent emerging criminal groups of the third generation immigrants, the so-called mocromafia; nothing ruthless and ruthless. In this form and on this scale unprecedented in the Netherlands. More money was put into setting up special teams to fight this crime. Unfortunately, there was insufficient capacity to have proper representation of agents on the streets as well. Hundreds of agents have been released to secure judges, officers and lawyers. As a result, regional corps have become heavily understaffed. In addition, the General Court concludes that three out of ten agents are not available daily due to leave, absenteeism or because they are undergoing training. Some units have to deal with even fewer people. So the problems will only get bigger. Does the Minister share our view that much more needs to be done to get the promised influx, some 1,100 agents? The police must do more and more with less and less: an unsustainable situation. When will our police finally have the means to carry out their duties properly? What is the Minister's long-term view of the discrepancy between the task package and capacity? When will they finally connect? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Governing is forward-looking. Everyone thinks it takes at least four to five years for an educated policeman or woman to be a good detective, a good security guard or a good financial detective. These are just a few examples that show that making funds available has not solved the problem. Instead, politics has come up with something new: moving more and more tasks to the new municipal police. The new city police are going to be formed by the boas. These special investigators, who have their origins in the so-called milking orbits, are being transferred more and more tasks which are actually the responsibility of the regional police. But because it is also stalled, real police tasks also go to the boas, who are not or are not adequately trained and equipped to do so. What is created with this is a false safety. In a consistent way, inimitable choices are made. Our older people, who are increasingly in need of help, are prevented from doing so because there is no provision for adequate care facilities, including nursing homes and nursing homes. But murder and fire are screaming for more places to take care of migrants. That should be settled in no time. Last year 300 million more were added than planned and this year it is already 134 million. There may also be 460 million to teachers and 500 million to the problem of nitrogen, but our police are being shipped off again with a tip. Mr. Chairman. This undermines citizens' confidence in the rule of law. The gap is only widening and the state of our rule of law is being further undermined. Without intervention, this feeling of unease will only increase. And then I haven't even mentioned the phenomenon of undermining. Mr. Chairman. The picture that the criminal underworld penetrates into the upper world is sketched. That may be the case, and it must be fiercely combated, but if we look closely around, we can see that the public administration is happy to participate. On the police site it says about undermining among other things: "The creeping threat to the integrity of the public administration." The fact that the government contributes to this is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that the Minister is not currently acting against the illegal dumping of waste, in this case granules, in the lake Over de Maas in the municipality of West Maas and Waal. The summit of Rijkswaterstaat and in line with that the ministers Van Veldhoven and Van Nieuwenhuizen continue to cover this illegal activity by knowingly ignoring our own legislation. Mr Geerten Waling once wrote that the Netherlands has a shadow power: a close network of people with high positions and high interests, which has a strong influence on government policy without democratic control. How striking is that, when you see that in the case of the granulate dump, our former Foreign Minister, Mr Halbe Zijlstra, who has a top job at VolkerWessels since his resignation, has been dealing with the matter since June 2019? Partly because of his interference it has become possible that expert officials within the Rijkswaterstaat were passed by the top officials in the field of soil, which allowed the dumping of granules, in violation of our own laws and regulations. The purest form of undermining. All this is maintained because former executives are very popular with business. Not because of their knowledge; no, much more because of their acquaintances, their contacts within the Hague: lobbying at a high level. But there is also undermining in other areas. It is also mentioned today that our country has become more and more a dikastrocation. The Netherlands as a state of justice. We have talked about this a number of times today. A state in which the public interest is increasingly shaped by private organisations. Conveniently using international law, these individuals seek to determine the public interest in their own right. Our Constitution is de facto subordinate to international law and supranational law. There are also plenty of judges who do not hesitate to make this binding national law within international agreements. So the judge has the power to turn international policy into government policy. The PVV wonders where the limit of this undesirable development lies. Does the Minister not see in this development the evidence that the Netherlands is increasingly becoming a judge state? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The picture we have sketched is not a cheerful one, but it is the state we are in. To repair this slightly, all kinds of emergency bandages are installed. Emergency dressings that only make it worse, because the underlying wound is not treated and cleaned. And if the law must then have its course, then it is made impossible by the settled case law, as I have already indicated. It is frustrating for crime victims, not only that their case is being dealt with far too late by the courts, but it is even more frustrating that maximum penalties imposed on these crimes are almost never imposed in practice. This is because the legislature has devised to include maximum penalties in the Penal Code instead of minimum penalties. For example, for an armed robbery by the police in good Dutch, a first offender may be required to serve up to three years in prison, according to the D.A.'s directive, while we, as legislators, have imposed a maximum prison sentence of seven years. How do you explain that to the average citizen, and certainly to the victim of such a crime? Mr. Chairman. The PVV has been advocating the inclusion of high minimum penalties in the law for years, but there is no majority to date. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I'm not a pessimist. I'm a realist. In recent years we have seen that we are on a slippery slope. And without knowing the seriousness of this, or trivialising it all again, our rule of law will only be further undermined. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations to Mrs De Blécourt and to Mrs Veldhoen. I would like to speak on behalf of the D66 Group on an existential issue, which has already been raised by others today: the democratic rule of law as an important pillar of our existence is under discussion. There is criminal undermining in the Netherlands. Rombouts talked, among other things, about the financing of courts, the failure of KEI and the erosion of social law. It's all worrying and it's all soluble. Where there's a will, there's a way. Jan Terlouw, fragile but principled, reminded us at the commemoration of the February strike of something that goes beyond the challenges of that order and that existential, and that is the democratic rule of law itself. We have nationalism, anti-Semitism, discrimination in the broad sense of the word, intolerance and fake news. Everywhere in Europe that is the order of the day. Our rule of law is therefore tested for its resilience. Who would have thought that we would discuss this subject in this way, while celebrating 75 years of freedom, our chairman is present at various commemorations, and we would have to act against these phenomena that led to the lack of freedom. That brings me to the trias politician, because it has been developed to limit absolute power. Checks-and-balances in the trias politicians are built-in safeguards to protect the freedom of the citizen not of the judge, but of the citizen from a dictatorship of the political majority. Justice transcends power; it has already been discussed. That's the point. Several colleagues spoke happily about this: Rombouts, Bikker and De Blécourt. We know the subjection of the citizen to the law, but the subjection of the administration and the executive to the law is always a lot more difficult. The European Convention on Human Rights codifies important values of our society. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which seems to me to be in no way outdated, has continued to do so. Treaties with which our country has joined wholeheartedly after the Second World War and with which arbitrariness, discrimination and other fundamental freedoms can be combated. This subordinateness to justice is always difficult for politicians, for administration and for those who think that their scope is unlimited. It is actually another principle of Odysseus: Odysseus bound himself to the mast to resist the temptation of the sirens, in this case the temptation of absolute power. Mr. Chairman. Judgement is not without obligation. There is indeed a problem with justice within the trias. But that is a very different problem than was the subject of the hearing around the D-word yesterday in the House of Representatives. Before the judge, justice is not an optional occupation. It's a provision, it's a duty. The court refusing to give judgment in cases of silence, darkness or incompleteness of the law may even be prosecuted under the terms of Article 13, General Provisions. If the question of admissibility has been answered positively, an action shall be dismissed or a conviction or an acquittal shall take place, unless...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u121	We can't hear you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u122	Mr President, did I get too far from the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u123	No, go on, Joris.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u124	Mr President, I think it is an intervention of the dikasocracy. Mr. Chairman. I go on the authority of the referee, in this Chamber that is the President, with a loud voice. If the question of admissibility has been answered and there is a judgment on a judgment or an acquittal or the case is appropriate........................................................................................................................................................................................ There are about 1.5 million cases on the list every year. Of course, there are only a few of them that attract attention, such as the MH17 process. And that's actually mostly in criminal matters. In the past year, the Dutch State has taken a number of times to the shortest conclusion. It is perhaps less well-known that it would, I think, also be an assignment to the cabinet to make that a different matter, that the State is party to proceedings in about 60% of the cases. We have mentioned the issues before: PAS, the Urgenda case, the Haga Lyceum, the IS children. It is all matters that have received a great deal of attention, but not always with the precision that was needed. Because in these administrative cases, the judge has a very different role than in a civil claim as in the Urgenda case. Mr. Chairman. The judge kept the board within the chalk lines of law. And that fact is not a matter of concern at all. However, one concern is the fact that Parliament, the legislator and the administration together, has not been able to find a timely solution for the protection of citizens in that nitrogen case and other matters. And that's what the judge held him to. The public should therefore be pleased that there is a judge who can act as a safety net. So we saw in those cases the trias politician just working. It is the balance between the three state powers, not aligned and always in a dynamic balance. There is also no strict divorce, as Mrs Baay rightly said. There are own assignments and own responsibilities. The judge has no legislative power. That's quite obvious. So the three state powers perform different non-exchangeable tasks. The unspecified power, as in the motion Cliteur 34430, letter P, can therefore not shift as well. That explanation of a subjugated judge who must be given instructions in cases of displeasure is a breach of the trias politician. There's a name for that too. It's called democracy. And that is not a democratic rule of law, but a majority dictatorship. The debate on the trias politician is good. I used the word "suspect." I don't like that. And a grip on power is certainly not. If, in a public television debate, Mr Van Wely's political leader is saying 'they are playing with fire', then I think that there is something going on and that we need to discuss it. There is immense pressure on the judge and there is also a great responsibility on his shoulders. That fact doesn't go away with the Cliteur motion. That pressure will not disappear altogether............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The causes of this pressure have, of course, been known for a long time. It has been under discussion since the 1970s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u125	Mr Backer made a number of valuable comments on the trias politician. I mean that sincerely. It's not an attempt to say something friendly first and then take it out on him. Then there's a "but" after all. I thought Mr Backer used a very nice phrase: right goes above power. Very nice! Law certainly goes beyond political power. He used this in the Urgenda case, where the judge uses a very general provision of the ECHR. But giving effect to that provision of the right to life or the promotion of health could put the primacy of politics at risk. "The primacy of politics" is not a dirty word. Perhaps you'd like to reflect on that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u126	I'm happy with the question. No, that's right. Maybe a counter-question is... but that's lame. Let me deal with the Urgenda case. The Urgenda case has been dealt with in three instances. First at the court of The Hague in 2015. There has been a huge amount of literature about the ruling among lawyers. The case was then dealt with at the Court of The Hague. The Court of The Hague has been much more closely associated with the international provisions, not only with the ECHR, but also with the Kyoto Protocol, with the Paris Convention and with a large number of agreements. The Court then considered that the State itself had set the target of 30% CO reduction compared to 1990 at the end of this year. Then you come into a much more complicated discussion. It is a matter of civil law. So you've got evidence and counter-proof according to civil procedure. It's not an administrative matter. This means that if, in the end, the State cannot prove that it has moved from 30% to 25%, what was the lower limit in all the international agreements, the judge can simply say: you have said what you wanted and you have based it on all the international conventions, all of which are of different weight, while it is now very heavily hung up on the ECHR; you have to motivate it sufficiently. If the citizens are not then given the protection that was promised, let me just say it in my own words, then the Supreme Court, of course, has a much more limited playing field in cassation. However, I would like to point out that incredibly careful justice has been spoken here. The Advocate General's Opinion covers 500 pages, with a huge system of references to international case law. Internationally, there is also similar case law. Then, after many considerations, the Supreme Court says: we think that this is within the lines of the law. Then they were asked to do this and that. This confirms the court's ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u127	This, I think, answers Mr Van Dijk's question. Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u128	It may be a somewhat longer answer, but I think it is good, because it is very easy to talk about the right of life. It's a much more complex analysis and it's a much more complex statement. I also think that the High Council has taken a courageous decision here. Perhaps other judges would have done it differently, but it is a decision that fits in with what is at stake: the protection of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u129	I propose that Mr Backer continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was actually a little bit legal in response to Mr Van Dijk's question. I want to continue because many lawyers of my generation were raised by Professor Koopmans, Thijmen Koopmans, among others. That is not Mr Koopmans' point of view. I refer to his influential essay on the role of the legislator. When you read the writings, you have to conclude that they are astonishingly topical. I quote him: yet the call for judicial control of the administration becomes stronger rather than weaker. That's understandable, says Koopmans in 1970. It is true that the main direction of policy will be subject to parliamentary control, but Parliament is an inappropriate institution for examining the individual forms of expression, and I would like to say that it is looking in the direction of Mr Van Wely. Later on, the same Koopmans said in another essay, and that's what's going on in 1981: if society doesn't want to disintegrate into factions, not groups, but factions, so share, who measure their own legal order, then probably a correction mechanism is needed and the judge acts as an arbitrator to settle compliance with the rules of the game in the social field of conflicts. Mr. Chairman. These quotes bear witness to wisdom and thoughtfulness. I think it's important for this discussion. How obvious it is, of course, that we are obedient to the courts for the proper functioning. The arbitration could be wrong. I think we have all experienced situations where we have thought and found that, but then we have to look at the causes and possibilities for improvement. I also know that a favourite football club was eliminated by curious arbitration decisions. It is what it is. Then you should see how you're gonna do better. Legislation and governance are becoming an increasingly complex work. It is now almost 40 years after the drafts I have just discussed and we are witnessing an increasingly complex translation. The two rulers behind the table are working on that all day long. We try to translate policies and intentions into legislation and sometimes we fail to do so. Then we try that in a wrong way or in a way that later doesn't work out well. I would like to go a little further, Mr President, because we only have one opportunity to do so in a debate on the rule of law. There are at least five reasons why there is increasing pressure on the courts and on the rule of law. There's more going on. Questions are submitted to the court in areas where the legislator has not responded or has not responded in time or where these ideologies do not adapt. In fact, there are often questions of directional criteria. There are countless examples: the Euthanasia Act, the right to strike, equal treatment. Urgenda has also been mentioned. Lots of things in the course of history. There is an increased desire on the part of citizens to use fundamental rights in legal protection. We see a layered legal order with European legislation and the European judicial domain. We're part of that. The regulatory system is also not becoming more accessible and it is also becoming increasingly complicated, with all kinds of consultations, advisory bodies, interest groups, amendments halfway through the legislative process, which of course means that there are questions in the final product that cannot be resolved immediately. Finally, and this was of course the subject of Urgenda, which I believe Mrs Bezaan objected to: Article 305a (5) of the Constitution made it possible for us to allow or give the opportunity for general action, because the citizen had the desire to hold the administration in a civil sense. This has a long history in case law. In my opinion and in the D66 group, it is not the judge himself who is activist, but the citizen in this society who has incredible desires. Nor has there been any empirical evidence that the judge is so activist. But he has to do with many different wishes and interests. At his address in 2017, Eddie Bauw talked about the three stages in the development of civil law, because I know that better than criminal law. They were part of social development. One of them was of course we know it all, even if you didn't study law at Lindenbaum/Cohen in 1919. I think we are now in the third stage, but in the interim, all kinds of interesting judgments have been issued. I call the murdered bride in 1991, or the unworthy associate. A young man goes to nurse a well-equipped older lady, he kills her after they're first married, then claims the inheritance. The Supreme Court, of course, had a dilemma there, but it resolved it by saying that in the end you should not take advantage of the crime. That was nowhere in the code, but of course it is a principle of law that you want to endorse. He just applied a principle that I think we can all live with. So you see that open standards, or unfilled standards, always go hand in hand with the laws that are clear, and hand in hand with the judge. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go into it in more detail. I see that you are particularly interested in this subject. One of the greatest lawyers of our time, Paul Scholten, discussed in his famous general section of the Asser series the basic idea that justice is an open system. Justice is always on the move. He also saw that complexity cannot be unified and forever regulated. The Scientific Council for Government Policy did not see this development at all in conflict with the democratic rule of law, but merely building on its principles. There's a report from 2002, number 63, when it was also up-to-date. I refer to that. Let us also put our hands in this Chamber: politics sometimes just puts the judge in a difficult position. Sometimes we delay things for ourselves, sometimes it becomes a very large AMvB, a point that has already been raised by Mr Janssen, and sometimes the pursuit of customization is sought, and then it is ultimately very complicated, because tailor-made and straightforwardness is what we were talking about when we were interrupting, when we were talking about the increases in tax law sometimes biting each other. So the judge has to put those standards back in the concrete case. But the citizen has great faith in the judge, more than in politics. It's no different. I'll give you what the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is investigating. Let's cherish that. It's very easy to break that down, it's very difficult to build it up. It is difficult for politics and government to accept that sometimes whistle-backs are made. But it is the only pillar in the Trias that can set limits to the non-legitimate overrun of powers by the administration. Then we may have long toes, but let us also look at ourselves and see where we can improve that. In an adult democratic legal system, we can talk about this and make improvements. Mr. Chairman. There is no reason whatsoever because of the judgments and judgments that have been discussed today, and which everyone can agree with, to make sure that the judicial authority as such does not fulfil its task properly. If some of the 1.5 million cases that are pending a year do not give birth, then there is no basis to say so, is there? Moreover, if we think it is wrong, we have fourteen different perspectives in this Chamber on what is not right. The D66 group was relieved that the Minister for Legal Protection finally gave an interview and broke the silence and stood up for the judiciary. Now to the Minister of Justice and Security. My group would like to invite him to take a clear position on this today. Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Legal Protection also spoke about fundamental rights and the treaties. Fundamental rights are, of course, created with blood, sweat and tears. There's been a little debate about it. What I find so curious is that some people are defending the view that national sovereignty is the best guarantee of fundamental rights. I believe that Mr Rombouts has shown very decisively that this is not the case. Our history shows that, too. We see it happening in Poland and Hungary, but also in the United States and the United Kingdom. The latter country is considering abandoning the ECHR. It's ironic that Churchill was the one who started it, while his biographer is now thinking about getting rid of it. This international standard was created on the ruins of European cities. There's still a margin of appreciation. We had a wide-ranging debate on this margin here in 2011-2012. A Franken motion has been adopted and I think we still have to look at it that way. That margin is sometimes so far-reaching that I think: well, the burka bans in Belgium and France are allowed, but you might find something else. That space was there for the national legislator. The Minister states that it is naive to enter into treaties. I am making it very brief because of the time, but what does he think is so naive? I would like to look at the small entrepreneur Benthem in 1985, who ultimately involved the European Court in not obtaining an LPG licence for his gas station, I believe in Arnhem. Then there was the old crown profession. Thanks to Article 6 of the ECHR, Dutch administrative law has been lifted and this small entrepreneur has been able to do his niering. I would say: the VVD should be pleased with that too. Mr. Chairman. I have a lot to say about it, but because of time I will limit myself. I'd like to ask Minister Grapperhaus a question. He made several statements in a letter in response to questions from the SGP in the Lower House on matters directly affecting Dutch citizens in the ECHR. Would he share this letter with this Chamber? Finally, Mr President. On matters of importance to the Netherlands, I should like to point out that it took fifteen years for us in the Netherlands to be able to regulate source protection for journalists in criminal matters. We've been recalled three times and tapped on our fingers before we could do it ourselves. Sometimes the legislator is very, very slow. Then you should be glad someone's protecting the free press. Mr. Chairman. I move on to the chain of law and the weakening of one of the three state powers in the trias politician. That state power has been weakened. It's not the board, but it's the law, the police, the whole system with the D.A. and the whole infrastructure. There's something going on. There's a lot to ask for. There's not enough money for that. The Council's starting point for the case-law that the internal logic of growing practices should be central should not apply to funding. Mr. Chairman. It has been said a few times before and I would not be surprised if Mrs Veldhoen also says something about it: the financing of the chain of law has gradually stalled. For a very long time, attention has been drawn in all kinds of authoritative circles to the tight structure of administrative rationality. This may have something to do with the official summit, but it is mainly a political decision. Cost and efficiency are dominant. Invested money in buildings and volume of judges and support staff are dominant. The outcome should be the right. But there are also other ways to control it, other techniques to control expenditure growth and non-legitimate costs. It doesn't have to be through this method.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u131	I'll be very brief, considering the time. First of all, I support Mr Backer's story to a large extent. I am glad that he is ahead of my contribution, because I will say something about it later. My question to him is about own funding for justice as an independent state power, equal to the High Colleges of State and not as currently attached to the Ministry of Justice. What's he like about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u132	I think it would be a very good idea, but I know it's a very complicated discussion. I also know that there has been an initiative law-Van Nispen in the Lower House, but it was not sufficiently solid, domestically speaking. I think the thought behind it is very sensible. But the legislative initiatives do not come from this house; that is across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u133	May I ask you to be brief, because we really need to be back by 1:30 after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u134	Very briefly. Would you support an investigation in that respect? The initiative is not here, but we could encourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u135	It could be highly stimulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u136	For the good listener it is a bit the self-reflection that prevails this morning. Mr Recourt referred to the misconduct surrounding the care allowance. Mr Rombouts distanced himself from the cuts in justice from Rutte I, which were, by the way, supported by the PVV. On this point, Mr Backer says that my colleague Van Nispen's initiative proposal from the other side was not entirely satisfactory. That is not how I understood it, because in the course of the discussion D66 was told that she did not see the added value. If Mr Backer says that he does see the added value, but that we have to shape it in a different way, then he makes me very happy today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u137	I want to make Mr Janssen very happy, of course, but I do not know what its value is. These kinds of decisions are made in the Lower House. There are colleagues of mine in the cabinet as well. I looked at it because I thought: it's an interesting initiative. There was a negative opinion from the Council of State on it. I think that's relevant. If there is a proposal on which a positive opinion can be obtained and which my colleagues think is a good idea, it would fit in with my philosophy with the third state power.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u139	Of course, I have a great deal to say, but I would like to make one comparison of what is happening in the area of justice and what we are doing. Finding the right has a value. Legislation has a value. But I thought we were never gonna deal with a case in this house because we don't have a budget anymore. This house has a very limited budget, but we'll do it. We're not gonna handle a case or hammer it because we wouldn't have enough money. The judge can't and has to. He will not be funded, he will be in trouble and then he will have to be corrected by the end of the year. I think there's something really wrong here. I would very much like to know from the Minister what he wants and can do about it during this cabinet period. I'm actually asking both rulers. It starts in the chain of law, of course, at the state's attorney's office. Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject with which I would like to finish my final piece. I hope to be in time for lunch. It's important, though. I would be in favour of these discussions on the rule of law moving in the direction I would like to call 'legal state constructivism'. That is a discussion in which we, with the administration, perhaps the Council of State and others, and also the case-law, look closely at how we can do it better. And I say: it is very necessary to conduct this discussion business and well, because Herman Tjeenk Willink has already come along in a metaphorical sense, so to speak, because the vulnerability of justice is greatly underestimated. And then the deliberate damage to the rule of law. What is the qualification of deliberate damage to public property objects? It's called "vandalism." It is also a kind of rule of law vandalism, and we should not want that. And this includes the pattern recognition of democratic responsibility. Mr Rombouts spoke very deeply about this. It always starts according to a fixed pattern. First you go after the judge. Its objectivity is then contested. Then, and passerby, parties are also treated as NGOs, and their alleged contribution to the weakening of national culture is taken into account. Just look at Mr Laughland's remarkable contribution to yesterday's hearing, which said: 'Many ECHR judges are former employees of NGOs, funded by George Soros'. That's what I'm talking about. George Soros was the target of a negative campaign by the Orbán government. And then it ends with putting under control and giving instructions to the judge, who Mr Van Wely is such a fan of. And then you're in democracy. I should like to recall the recent report by Pieter Omtzigt on Poland to the Council of Europe. "Where there is injustice, Omtzigt," we could say. It exposes this pattern with sharpness. I would like to know from the rulers how they look at the effectiveness of calling in Article 7 against Poland and Hungary, and what we can learn for our country with regard to the pattern recognition and the resilience of our democratic rule of law against these violations. I would like to hear the Ministers clarify this. Finally, Mr President. And thank you for your coulance. I was talking about improvement options. In this context, I would like the House to vote on a motion in the second term, but that obviously depends entirely on the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u140	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I'll suspend the debate until after lunch.
