ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u1	I'm reopening. The Minister shakes hands to arrange some extra support for the MPs; of the coalition, that is. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'd appreciate it if you'd take a seat. The next item is the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. This afternoon and this evening, we will deal with the first term of office. You know the corona rule that we should at least be outside at 11:00, so we'll all keep it short and pointy. So far, I'm not imposing any restrictions on the number of interruptions. But if things get out of hand, I'm gonna change the rules of the game, because that's how fast I am. Many groups have increased their speaking time. Apparently, they have a few minutes left of other budget treatments. That's how it goes. This applies, among other things, to the PVV. He's gonna talk all together now, in the first and second term, 28 minutes. Why don't you just sit tight?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr Graus kicks off with eleven minutes. I call Mr Graus on behalf of the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not about quantity, it's about quality, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. This is the budget treatment LNV. My colleague Madlener is about to talk about agriculture and I am doing animal welfare. I actually want to start by reading up part of the VVD's election programme, because the VVD has the election programme ready. In the field of animal welfare, they are all issues of the PVV, while the VVD has never supported the motions on this issue. That is unbelievable! If motions were to be needed in the second term, I assume that the VVD will support them, because it is in their election programme, suddenly, pardoes! They think that Graus is so sympathetic to everyone, so that's what we should do. Higher penalties for animal executioners: a Graus/Helder motion has been adopted on this. We would like that to include a restraining and professional ban. The VVD didn't support that motion. I've been asking that since 2006. So we're going to cut things off during this budget debate. Then the positive list: again, of course, that is about reptiles and birds. Thank VVD for all support! Great! Then there is the approach to animal executioners within the bread farms, the slaughterhouses, the animal and/or processing industry through high fines, imprisonment, restraining and professional bans. That sounds better in German: Berufsverbot! It always sounds a little more beautiful in German. The closure of companies was also suddenly included in the VVD programme. All these years they really didn't support my motions, but now they've just taken over the whole Graus gamma. Actually, it's kind of a plagiarism. But I'm happy with this form of plagiarism. I won't press charges. I'm so happy about this! If there were no corona, I'd give you all a hug in that business. All of them!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr Futselaar is right in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u5	It is not for me to defend the VVD or to go further on an election program here. But I would like to ask Mr Graus the following. A number of points, such as the restraining ban or the positive list, were already widely supported. The problem is that the whole cabinet period has not succeeded in achieving concrete legislation. Does Mr Graus agree with me that there is more incompetence here than unwillingness on the part of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u6	Haha, look! What am I supposed to say? I usually agree with De Futs, Professor Futselaar; always. But I like De Futs better. I always call him De Futs and I want to keep doing that here, given the special band. To a large extent, I agree with him. But, Mr Futselaar, I was also talking about a life-long restraining order. The VVD also wants to think about this when it comes to recidivists. That's something we've always asked for, along with only the Party for Animals. Actually, we didn't get support from anyone when it came to that, only always from the Party for Animals. I am very grateful that we are getting the VVD, which is currently the largest party. On behalf of the animals: thank you! 'Cause I'm not standing here before myself, of course, but on behalf of the animals. Then I want to talk about the combi teams. That's a new point. I've been asking for that for a while. That wasn't in the VVD's election program either. I want combi teams in place. There is a lot going on with controlling veterinarians, even within slaughterhouses. Some are intimidated. A vet's been severely assaulted, really heavy. In fact, I think it is very sweet and good that this minister had a conversation with that veterinarian and that she has received him personally. I commend the Minister for this, also for her humanity when it comes to this, because very few ministers do that. But she did it. Thank you for that! I like that very much. We need to protect those vets. So we have to send the police in on high-risk controls. Then there's just a policeman or a woman, a general investigator with a bat, a bat, a bat, as it's called pepper spray, with a gun. Then it won't. There's no abuse of a woman if there's a general detective armed with it, because then he gets caught right away with his shoelace and then he just goes to jail because he can't. The Minister must protect her sheep from wolves. She must be a good shepherd for her sheep. So I'm asking her to get those combi teams to protect vets. We would like, in order to prevent and combat barn and gnaw fires... I used to call them gnaw fires. When Mrs Lodder spoke, she never supported those motions. She also didn't believe it was about gnat burning. But all of a sudden it said that there was also all this at the VVD: the prevention of barn and gnaw fires. That's even a word I came up with myself, with Dr. Weijman, a rodent expert. We asked for a test stand for Stable Safe. At Stable Safe, the animals can flee when a fire occurs, because these sprinkler systems do not always have an effect. Smoke develops and then they often choke. So they really need to be able to run. You can do that with the Stable Safe. That goes through the underpressure system of the feed silos and everything, of the feed systems. So I would like to have a commitment on that, so for a test stand for Stable Safe. This is supported by the national fire department, our great pride. On the accelerated phasing-out of animal testing, certainly the number of animal experiments, but also the number of experimental animals involved, in the transition to animal-free innovations, there are six adopted motions-Graus and of the Party for Animals. Mr Wassenberg and I have worked together on this, so Graus/Wassenberg and Wassenberg/Graus. How's that going? What is the situation with the fourth V that we have added? Apart from reduction, refinement and replacement, we have also asked for acceleration. I would have liked to have responded to that. Then there are still many uncommitted or unadopted requests, such as the phasing-out of the bio-industry. I mean, we all have to want to and can do that now, don't we? It's been in our election program since 2006. We also want the rights of animals in the Constitution. I am working with my colleague Wassenberg to write an initiative law on the rights of animals in the Constitution. How can we anchor it? As incompetent creatures... Otherwise, we will get these faint remarks: yes, but then they will also have duties and they will also have to comply with duties. Those are all of those lame Tupperware night jokes, but there are also people and children who are unsavory, often with a certain mental limitation or something, who can't meet those obligations, just like an animal can't. They are also protected. We need to protect animals, the first Earthlings, whether you believe in evolution or in the creation story. That should appeal to the Minister, because I know she is a very religious person. So I think it should appeal to the Minister to ensure that we have the rights to do so. I'd like a response to that. Then, of course, there is the ban on the ritual and/or religious killing of animals. I always call that the ritual torture. Together with my Limburg friend Geert Wilders I have tabled a motion for a ban on ritually tortured products. I'm afraid it's been rejected. Maybe we should file it again, but we would also have liked to have ended it. 'Cause why would you have the sweetest creatures tortured right before they have to die, which is a little bad already? That is why I stopped eating meat. I thought it was absolutely quite tasty, especially as a child, so it wasn't that I thought it was dirty, but if you go with the animal police for one day or with NVWA doctors, you won't eat meat anymore, believe me. You don't like it anymore. You don't like it anymore. On the approach to heat stress in animals through shelters and shadow spots, the Minister has already made a commitment that she will at least conclave with the association of Dutch municipalities, because they are often obstructed when building shelters. Also against heat stress. I've seen a plateau truck in a meadow with all the sheep. Well, there could have been 13 sheep under there, but they were all pushing each other to stay out of the sun. Because those animals often die literally from the heat. None of that should be possible. They must also be able to hide from wind, especially cold winds. I know that a lot of animals died at the Oostvaardersplassen because of the cold wind. It also had to do with the lack of food, but it is often also just because of the cold wind. I have been informed of this by experts. We want a pilot for the two elite teams of the NVWA, the animal welfare teams, the best functioning teams of the NVWA, we are proud of that, and so is Mrs Ouwehand, because she has submitted requests with me a few times and she is also behind it which reveals all the abuses within the slaughterhouses and, like the animal police, brought to Justice and Security, while maintaining the budget from LNV. Why? Because it's colliding. The economic interests of LNV and the other teams of the NVWA clash with those who want to tackle animal shacks. It can't be. They are threatened, abused, intimidated, bullied away, also by people within the NVWA. They bullied each other out of there, at the Executive Board of Keuren. It's all colliding. It can't be. There are conflicting economic interests. You need to do something about that. I want rehabilitation and protection of whistle-blowing vets. I've been working on dozens of them all over the country. The IG can stand upside down and say, "You can't talk to that tocky," but that happens anyway, and all over the country. It really isn't just north or south anymore; all over the country NVWA's are reporting. The few whistle-blowing vets who have spoken to various parties here are all either bullied away or wiped out. That's not gonna happen. There's gonna be a separate meeting about that. I can't name names here; I can't. But I may mention the names to the Minister, but I must do so bilaterally. I can't do that right now; I can't. But they're all vets who've had a good record for years, never had a reprimand, never had a comment. They're good, decent, sweet people. They've just brought dirtbags to light. They're all gonna have to get on the mat and they're all gonna get caught. Next week another one will be played out, with a good record of service, of decades. I think it's outrageous, really. They just ignore it. An IG used to show up in front of them, but they don't even show up anymore. I think it's really shameful. That's very high up, I have to tell you. I want the minister to do something about it and protect those people, because we need them badly, especially now, with the Brexit. Believe me, we need these people very much, especially when it comes to animal welfare. We want a rotation system for the NVWA maintainers, with different companies in an area, not to have a social connection, not to create intimidation or abuse. They have to rotate, with a policeman or woman present. That's the end of the story. There must be 360° cameras, with such a joystick, apart from the personal controls that must remain. It can be anywhere these days. Then why can't it be here? They do it in cities, don't they? They can do it anywhere, and then they couldn't do it in such a small slaughterhouse? The police control entire cities with joysticks. It's all bullshit that can't or can't. It's all possible. Because there is a lot of animal suffering during loading, unloading and transport, the PVV took care of it.We were the initiator of the carcass transport.... that tests were carried out with mobile killing units, MDUs. However, the abuse of this must be addressed, as it appears that they are also being used for non-transportable animals. Toxic arthropods should be included in the Decision keepers of animals. It is also necessary to examine the level and duration of courses for future animal keepers for the purposes of professional competence, which are a joke. Those are five-minute tests. That's outrageous. These are living beings with intrinsic values, hypersensitive animals, more sensitive than all of us here together. It can't be. Last year, the PVV asked for the lion........................................................................................................................ The Minister has a say in that. The animals are not only abused by stuffed animals, but they are also exported to Asia and camel countries as a status symbol, or they are used in trophy hunts. Also, parts of those lions, of those animals, are used as components of lust-enhancing agents, because people still believe in them. That's sick. Our request was accepted then, but now it appears that breeding lions and cheetahs are excluded. Of course you can't. We would like to see an action and response from the Minister, especially at the Cites meetings. Where is the promised campaign to raise the profile of 144? We want animal trainers and dog trainers, all those whisperers, certified, and animal shelters as well. We prefer one national center, especially when it comes to biting dogs. 'Cause they're not high-risk dogs. No, the owners are the high-risk people, and the dogs are getting bites. Thank you, Mr. De Groot of D66, because he's already submitted a plan for it. Finally, we have been advocating one national, professional 144 animal ambulance since 2006. That must also become priority vehicles. Those people get a heavier driving education. Why does an animal ambulance have to be in traffic when he's on his way to an animal that's been hit? That animal must be stabilised on the spot by veterinary or paraveterinary agents as soon as possible. I can see that I am actually out of my speaking time, but I would like to continue for one more minute. We want paraveterinary crew on that animal ambulance as well. And now Elephant Buba, last. I went to see Buba yesterday. Buba is a 45-year-old elephant cow, a relatively small animal. She's been with the Freiwald family for 30 years. I have asked twice for exemption, including from the minister's predecessor, from Secretary of State Dijksma. Why did the Secretary of State reward those requests from me at the time? Because elephants have already been eaten away, languished, in the shelter. It can't be. We shouldn't do that to that animal. That animal has been domesticated for decades. It's colliding. They tried with groups, but Buba's not doing well. Buba is an exceptional case. I want the minister to talk to the Freiwald family. If nothing comes out of that, Buba won't go to France. We have a better address for her, in consultation with the Freiwald family. I would also like to talk to the Minister about this, because that is not what we are going to say here. I have to stop, but I'd like a reaction to that. I would like to go to Buba with Mr Wassenberg and the Minister if necessary. We must help Buba and preferably keep him here in the Netherlands. That's really our wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u7	Thank you. I wouldn't have missed that last minute for the world. I call Mr Madlener, also from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u8	In any case, my son will be happy to hear that Buba should stay with his owner, because it was a very sad news item in the Youth Journal. So thank you on behalf of my little boy. Mr. Chairman. It is a special budget, because it is the last budget of this cabinet and concludes a four-year period. It turned out to be four turbulent years. Four years ago, I became a spokesperson for agriculture, nature and fisheries, together with colleague Dion Graus. The somewhat romantic image I had of agriculture was soon destroyed. The rule of law turned out to be even worse than the kolchozen in communist Russia. And not only the amount of laws and rules, but also the complexity of them and, worse still, the dishonesty. Soon I got in touch with a large group of farmers who had been caught up by the new rules. They were faced with a new phosphate right system, which had replaced the milk quota. There were poignant situations in entrepreneurs who had invested in new stables and who were suddenly not allowed to use them, bankruptcies causing a lot of damage, and to this day this misery continues. And that was just the beginning of much more misery. This government was formed four years ago by two Christian peasant parties, which is what I call them, because the farmer is a bit their asset, I think, and an entrepreneurial party, the VVD, and D66. You'd think: good news for farmers and fishermen. But the rest is history. It was four very bad years. There was a grey blanket over our proud peasantry. The future has turned black. Farmers have been identified as a problem by this cabinet. After the phosphate rights system, the nitrogen came out of the high hat. The nitrogen policy, in fact devised by the CDA, was smashed into the trash by Brussels rules through the judge. The more than 160 natural areas that our country has, where an EU stamp has been applied diligently, have proved to cause problems for our entire country. By the way, it was warned at the time. They knew that the long-term consequences could be disastrous, because what needs to grow in these nature areas in the Netherlands is not determined by nature, but by nature managers. They do not want trees and shrubs; no, they prefer low nitrogen species. The nature organizations are busy with it. Stimulating low nitrogen nature by plaguing or scattering bone meal is actually more like gardening. Despite the fact that nitrogen emissions have been falling for years and the air and water have become cleaner in the last 20 years, this cabinet continues to bully farmers away. Sometimes agreed by a voluntary buy-out scheme, but also maliciously by forced buy-out or by changing the rules so that there is no more dry bread to be earned. Most farmers and fishermen are not happy with a buy-out. For them it is not just a job, but a way of life that has often been transferred from generation to generation. Apart from the fact that a forced buy-out does not make farmers and fishermen happy, it is also a waste of taxpayers' money. Hundreds of millions of euros, over the years billions. It affects the earning capacity of the Netherlands, because what is less produced in the Netherlands will simply be produced more abroad and often at lower production standards. The meat consumption of the Dutch is also not falling at all, as the left-wing parties like to claim. Average meat consumption per person has been stable and even slightly increased for a long time. And the requirements for plant protection products and animal welfare are often lower abroad. It is a good thing that we have such great farmers, because there could also be a time when food shortages occur. So let's be careful with our farmers. Not only the farmers, but also the fishermen have been abandoned by politics over the past four years. Fishermen are taken away from their fishing grounds to make way for wind turbines. This is then compensated by taking even more fishing grounds for nature. That's how the fishermen get caught twice. And Greenpeace's environmental criminals are all over the place: they're just throwing big rocks in the water. And nothing is being done about it. The fishermen may join the North Sea talks, but they will have to sign at the cross. The PVV understands that fishermen do not want to participate in this charade at all. In addition, fishermen see a cabinet that does not make every effort to preserve pulse trawling for the Netherlands. The Netherlands has not even threatened a veto in the EU and the French simply allow themselves to eat the cheese of bread. What is the situation with regard to fish stocks in the North Sea? Actually, it's pretty good. The porpoises are doing well, the seals are doing well. So why is fishing being made so difficult? What are the effects of all those wind turbines on the fish stock? Actually, no one knows, but it doesn't seem to be good. Mr. Chairman. The documents for an AO Fisheries stated that the Minister is committed to preserving lively fishing communities, but how is that possible if fishermen are not allowed to fish anymore? The Ministry draws up rules that make life miserable for farmers. The Netherlands probably has the strictest nitrogen rules in Europe. For example, the critical deposit values in the Netherlands are much lower than in Germany and Belgium. Germany and Belgium have committed themselves to the same directives, the Birds and Habitats Directives. So how is this possible? Phosphate standards are lowered to the extent that farmers even fear their harvest, because soil fertility goes down. They're just not allowed to spread enough manure on the land. The Ministry of LNV explains at a detailed level how the farmer and gardener should do their job. That ignores the craftsmanship of the entrepreneur. An example of this is the unfortunate feed measure. Fortunately, it has not been introduced and that is an important victory for the farmers with all their protests. Fertilising with a tow foot fertiliser on clay and peat should only be allowed below 20°C. So that's gonna be crowded in the night hours. What a madness! Even LTO is now becoming critical and warns that the contours of the new manure policy will lead to further scaling up. Farmers have to switch to circular farming, but no one knows what that is yet. The acre subsidy goes down. Rules increase the cost. Sales prices do not increase because farmers have to compete with Ukraine, Brazil and all those countries with which the EU has concluded treaties. If we take stock of the last four years, the only conclusion is that this cabinet has failed badly. This minister has ruined everything. Also in the EU, where a Dutchman, Timmermans, has a very big mouth and puts our country and our farmers at a disadvantage. Our farmers get less EU subsidies compared to other countries, but the Netherlands has to pay more for the EU. I refer to the farmer-to-board strategy, which is pushing the Netherlands further. The mass immigration facilitated by EU rules, which the Netherlands is so good at participating in, has resulted in more than 400,000 immigrants in this cabinet period. Do you think it's weird that we're short of housing? Speaking of nitrogen emissions, how much nitrogen is that? That is not being discussed here, of course. The EU deals with Ukraine, which our farmers cannot compete with; you do not hear the cabinet. Over the past four years, I have called for the Netherlands to stand up for our interests in Brussels, but I have not seen the Minister shine once on behalf of our country. So that's what other countries really do better. Could the Minister perhaps give a few examples in which she, but also together with the Prime Minister, negotiated hard and supported Dutch farmers' interests in the European Union? Then the fishermen. First, the Brussels ban on pulsing, which this cabinet has so failed. And then the Brexit. The cabinet joins the EU Commissioners, but Dutch fishermen are going to pay the price. The PVV wants the minister to travel to London before Christmas, to talk to her colleague about fisheries interests. I've made this call five times in the last two years, but in vain. Mr President, I will conclude. We will hear fine words in the run-up to the elections, about how good it is that we have dragged the derogation back in. But the truth is that the Netherlands has been living backwards for the past four years. The nitrogen law is going to make it even more difficult and technically complicated for farmers. The EU is continuing to reduce its farmers' incomes in favour of other EU countries. To quote the words of D66'er De Groot: this is only the amuse of what is to come. I have one final point. It looks very much like the Minister is going to abandon the farmers at least once before the end of her term. Now, one and a half years after the PAS, there is still no clarity for the PAS detectors and there is no solution in sight, as the Minister promised. 3,300 companies now fear their survival and have fallen into a legal swamp. Do something for these entrepreneurs, Minister, because this can't be your farewell gift to the farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u9	Thank you. Was that your full contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u12	This shows that if you don't have a story yourself, you're going to attack other parties. That's what the PVV does. By doing so, as a party, as a PVV, you conceal that you are not at all as pro-farming as you are now pretending to be here. I quote from the nitrogen debate, where I stood with your group chairman. He hated pigs being in a loft. "They may disappear tomorrow," said your group chairman, Mr Wilders. Your colleague, Mr Graus, was just talking about how he hated meat. My words. Around plant protection, the PVV continuously agrees with the left-wing parties to prevent farmers from protecting their crops. Around animal welfare, the PVV continuously agrees with left-wing parties. Does Mr. Madlener agree with me that, if you keep this story here, you're just trying to suck it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u13	I'm trying to outline what's happened over the past four years. It has led to the biggest farm protests in 40 years. It can't be that I can't name it here, can it? In fact, I think it is my job to put this government, which is now presenting the last budget and which you are part of, to see what you have done for farmers and fishermen over the last four years. That's bitterly little. These aren't the little tips you like so much, this is the big story. You and your government have made it very, very difficult for the farmers. For a lot of entrepreneurs, you've made it very bad. I blame the CDA and the Christian Union. I think D66 is the only one who's happy. I hope that in a future government period the CDA will deliver on the promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u14	We had a general discussion the other day where Mr Madlener was doing the same story. Then I also told him the chameleon behavior, the magical behavior of the PVV group: the words do not match the voting behaviour. I would like to ask Mr Madlener whether he does not agree that the PVV Group is being eaten in two ways? The group tries to keep farmers and gardeners happy, but also tries to keep other parts of society happy. It's just a hybrid story Mr. Madlener keeps here, isn't it? This is simply not the case with voting behaviour and with the actions that are expressed by it. Can Mr Madlener really answer my questions? How can you try to write a pro-farm story here, when you vote against the farmers when it comes to animal welfare, voting against the farmers when it comes to plant protection? I can give you more examples. Why don't you go into that concretely?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u15	I believe that a kind of wedge is being driven here between farmers and animal welfare. That's not true at all. A lot of farmers want to handle their animals very well. And we support those farmers in that. We also have ideas about this; you have just heard Mr Graus. There is still a great deal to be achieved in the field of animal welfare. So yes, we are a party that is in favour of animal welfare and critical of the use of pesticides. But what is happening now with the peasantry, with the constant increase in scale, leaving entrepreneurs in the lurch... I said that 3,300 entrepreneurs fear for their survival. Those are families, Mr. Geurts. You know that, too. Those people don't have a future anymore. The emigration of farmers is increasing. People don't like it here anymore. And that is all because of the policies of recent times, of this government but also of the European Union. The PVV is indeed a party that wants to do something about it. I want to mention that here, and I understand that that hurts you, but you should also take a good look at yourself, at what you have achieved with your CDA over the past four years. I don't think you're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u16	Short, pointy, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u17	It's not about how sorry I am for what you're saying. The point is that these farmers' families are deprived of their future by the voting behaviour of the PVV, by voting against plant protection issues, by voting with left-wing parties around animal welfare, by hunting pig farmers from the Netherlands, by hunting poultry farmers from the Netherlands, by hunting mink farmers from the Netherlands. Just give a concrete answer where the PVV is at this point and don't keep such a story that you're so pro-farming, because that's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u18	I notice that Mr Geurts is getting a little excited. I understand that too, because it is not good what I have said about whatever is happening in the EU with the help of the CDA. The Netherlands, with this government, has really deteriorated very much over the past four years. What have you been doing, Mr. Geurts? Then you can start blaming me, but unfortunately we have not ruled. Otherwise, it would have looked different. It is the EU and the role of the CDA that are deeply disappointing. You should read your own election programme again, because it is a real shame how you have dealt with farmers over the last four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u19	A point of order from Mr Graus, do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u20	My name was mentioned with a wrong quote. Mr. Geurts says I hate meat. I didn't say that at all. I even said I always liked meat when I was a kid. But I also said that if someone goes with the animal police or the NVWA, he won't want to eat meat anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u21	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u22	No, Mr. Chairman, you may even count an interruption. Before Mr Madlener, I was the spokesperson from 2006. That better income model for the farmers came from the PVV, not the CDA. We were the only ones against nitrogen legislation, phosphates. With Natura 2000, they could no longer let the cows poop and pee. The PVV was the only one against that. We have helped farmers, including against the European Union. We were the only ones against all the suffocating regulations. The CDA was always in favour of that. This is a lie, and it is a disgrace. We can do it together. It's not hybrid; that's bullshit. There is no farmer who has ever said to me: you go too far with animal welfare. We say: we will ensure that you get a better earning model and have less to do with nonsensical nitrogen and phosphate legislation. Then you can invest in animal welfare. Farmers have never talked to us about animal welfare. Nothing hybrid. You can be good for the farmers and good for the animals. Small family and family businesses and an end to the bio-industry must be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u23	Mr. Madlener, you're being interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u24	Yes. I welcome Mr Graus' comment. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u25	Okay. That's what you've got in the pocket. Mrs. Dik-Faber, do you have anything in the same tone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u26	No, Mr President, not in the same tone, but I do have a pressing question to ask the PVV, because I too do not fully understand it. I heard Mr Madlener make a plea for the fishermen who are having a difficult time. I endorse that. We see, among other things, the consequences of the Brexit. The fishing industry is greatly affected by this. Why is the PVV Group turning its back on Europe, knowing that our fishermen and our farmers are so dependent on the European Union? If we were to get out of the EU, the PVV wants us to say that this simply means that our farmers in the Netherlands are at a huge disadvantage. Then I see a very black scenario for the future of agriculture in our own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u27	That is the image that is always called up, but of course that is not true at all. Switzerland is not in the EU either, but Nestlé, a very large food company, does very good business in Europe. It is up to the Netherlands to negotiate fishing rights with the British, but that does not happen. Your Minister, our Minister, is waiting and saying: I am in solidarity with Europe; I can see what is coming from the European Commission. I think we should travel very quickly to London, stand up for our interests and make a deal with the English, with the British. That's not gonna happen. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u28	We see the impact of the Brexit on fishing: a country is leaving the EU and that has direct economic consequences for our fishermen. I think it is right that we should stand up for that. But now the peasants. If we were to leave the European Union, that is something the PVV Group wants, and over and over and over again, that simply means that our farmers are waiting for the same fate as the fishermen. I'd like an answer to that. What will Mr Madlener offer to our farmers if we leave the European Union? Because then they are lagging behind, they are out of income and the export markets are falling out. Then we'll have to figure out a way to do that. All this is not as easy as it is proposed here. Here's what I'd like to know. Is Mr Madlener, is the PVV Group, in favour of the European market, with the position of our farmers in it, or does he say that I am turning my back on Europe? Because then you have to tell an honest story to the farmers. It doesn't look good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u29	That's just bullshit. We can do very well with the EU outside the EU. We can make agreements on that, can't we? Isn't that what the British are doing now? Only our minister sits down and thinks: I'll wait what the Commission comes up with. I call on the Minister to take the plane to London tomorrow, to stand up for our fishermen and make a good deal. Why isn't that happening? Why are you against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u30	I can't get an answer to my question. How does Mr Madlener intend to prevent our farmers from waiting for the same fate as the fishermen? That's what's going on here. That is why the European market is so important. That is why we must keep things together and not turn our backs on Europe. That's what the PVV does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u31	Of course, you can always say with fear: when we are out of Europe, we can no longer act. But that's bullshit, of course. Do you really think that the Germans and the Belgians will no longer want our meat and our food? Then there would be a huge food crisis. Precise food is a first need for life. I assume that a good deal will come about if we, like the British, vote democratically on retirement in the Netherlands. It certainly looks good with the British, because they will certainly want to talk to us. Take countries like Switzerland or Norway. There are many examples of countries outside the EU. Even Brazil will have a good deal with the EU. Think of Ukraine, too. You name it all. And then the Netherlands wouldn't have it? That's bullshit, of course. You're a scaremonger. In the meantime, with the EU and your EU policies, you are abandoning our farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u32	I'm about to lose track. I believe that Mr Madlener's examples, about Ukraine or food production in Brazil, are not the ones that can count on a great deal of warmth and enthusiasm. There was just some ping-pong over and over. Let me try to see where we can get with Mr Madlener. What, if we were to talk about farmers, would be the most important thing for you that we can arrange for each other in this budget treatment for the benefit of the farmer or gardener? What is the subject you would like to change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u33	That's a good, constructive question. I would say: let us stop with this constant regulation; this whole nitrogen crisis must be brought to an end. I would say that the whole nitrogen bill goes into the trash; give farmers the freedom to do business again. Let us not continue to bully farmers with all the rules you and your government come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u34	I find that a little too easy, because at the same time we also have a nitrogen crisis. We're going to deal with that law very soon in this house. My colleague Mark Harbers will do that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u35	You made that crisis, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u36	...so let's have that debate there. But I really want to have something concrete, something that we can just talk about tonight or tomorrow night at the end of the debate: look, we got this together. And we do not do that by throwing a big law into the trash or by flushing the toilet, as Mr Madlener knows. How about we come up with a proposal, and I have already given it to you, for example, to help the beet growers in this country? An innovative development, they can't do it anymore, Brussels has banned it, the Netherlands has followed it, but we can see that there are already ten or eleven Member States that are granting exemptions. Is Mr Madlener going to table a motion with me to reverse this? The beet growers are really waiting; in the coming days, next week is the last opportunity to order beet seed for next year. Why don't we get this over with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u37	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u38	There's gonna be motions coming up, and we're gonna come up with motions. Of course, we are looking at the interests of farmers and then we will see whether we can support these motions, yes or no. We're looking at it positively, of course. But what I wanted to do here is to judge this cabinet, your cabinet, for the past four years. What has this cabinet, with two farmers' parties and an entrepreneurial party, done for our peasantry in the Netherlands? I think it is very important that we also discuss this, rather than the micro-level that you always want. The big line. We've had the biggest farm protests in 40 years. That's not for nothing. And it goes on and on. That nitrogen bill's gonna be here soon. You yourself criticize this, but it all happens, with you as a government party. Once again, we will always look at the proposals positively for farmers. If they get anything, we'll support them. You know that. Then you can always come to us. So yes, thank you for the proposals and for this small point, but the main line is that you have made it very difficult for our peasantry over the last four years and that the farmers are in the wind. I hope that will change after the next election.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u39	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u40	Mr President, concluding. I note that the main thrust of the PVV is mainly to comment but not to make any concrete proposals, just to refer things to the trash can, not to provide a solution that enables entrepreneurs to get started and build in this country, not to propose a small proposal but very important to help beet growers. No constructive proposal from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u41	I have already said that we look positively at what the proposals do for entrepreneurs and will then vote for or against them. We look at it with peasant glasses; if they are good proposals, we will always support them as we always have. But the main line is: you have dropped the farmers hard over the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u42	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Lodders from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Together with my colleague Arne Weverling I will provide the input for the VVD. Mr. Chairman. There are more and more people on the globe. The world's population is going to grow considerably over the next few decades, and so is the demand for food. The Netherlands is an important player in global food production. Not only is our country the second largest food exporter in the world, also in terms of innovation and knowledge sharing, our farmers and growers, our research institutes and companies in the agro-food sector are world leaders. So all reason to be proud of this beautiful sector, to be proud of our farmers, gardeners and fishermen. Yet the tone has changed over the past year. Farmers have been given much to choose over the past year and again this year. Think of the introduction of the phosphate rights system, the land-based growth of dairy farming, circular farming, reduction of CO2 and not to mention the nitrogen and corona crisis. Each and every one of the topics that are important. I am not talking about the additional rules to maintain the derogation, rules on the manure dossier and increasing pressure on plant protection, which makes it increasingly difficult to adequately protect crops. And then there are all kinds of requirements in terms of sustainability and animal welfare: GlobalGAP certification, Planet Proof and one-, two- or three-star meat. Mr. Chairman. Farmers are quite willing to discuss socially desirable developments, but they are currently struggling to keep up with all the changes. I am convinced that this is because there is much talk about them rather than with them and because much of them is demanded, sometimes demanded, and there is no or very little compensation for them. That has led to a lot of displeasure. See the many demonstrations over the past year and at times even the threats. Those threats must never be accepted, because that doesn't help you at all. However, I would ask the Minister to reflect on the pride that must be shown to our farmers, growers and fishermen, at the same time the anger, the displeasure that prevails, the desired social developments, which most farmers can hardly or can hardly keep up with, the uncertainty, sometimes despair, and what it means to them and to their families. Mr. Chairman. It would be good to look back on the past with the various sector parties and perhaps also a number of individual common farmers and to engage in dialogue for greater mutual understanding. The aim is, of course, to establish a consultative structure on the desired course at a pace that farmers can keep pace with. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. Our farmers, growers and fishermen deserve our appreciation and pride, and that is what I want to say here today. Our farmers and growers produce sufficient, quality and affordable food. There is also much appreciation for the Netherlands and its role in food production worldwide. That appreciation worldwide actually goes a step further, because last month the Nobel Prizes were awarded. You know them well, the prestigious prizes for people who have been deserving in promoting peace or scientists who have achieved remarkable achievements in the fields of physics, chemistry, physiology or medicine. Two of these special awards have been awarded to an organisation and to people with a clear link to agriculture and food production. The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the United Nations World Food Programme, which contributes to stability and peace by providing food to refugees and disasters. The Nobel Prize in Chemistry has been awarded to the French Emmanuelle Charpentier, if I pronounce it right, and the American Jennifer Doudna, who have developed a method to easily modify DNA in, for example, plants, better known as CRISPR-Cas 9. With the award of these prices, you can see a great international appreciation for food in relation to stability and peace and great appreciation for innovations that can bring food production to a higher level and achieve an even more sustainable way of producing. At the same time, it feels as if we in the Netherlands and Europe attach less importance to this. I see developments in the Netherlands and Europe where food production is not a priority, seems to be of minor importance or sometimes does not play a role. That is rather worrying, because we cannot ignore it: the world population is growing from over 7.5 billion to over 9.5 billion people. This causes a greater pressure on food production. We must not lose sight of that. In that sense, Rob de Wijk hit the nail in the article today in De Telegraaf with the title "Dutch farmer strongest asset against the influence of China." Mr. Chairman. The US Department of Agriculture warns that if the Farm to Fork strategy of the European Commission becomes policy, agricultural production falls, farm entrepreneurial income rises, food prices rise extremely and hunger in third world countries can increase rapidly. Whether the entrepreneurial income is rising, you may wonder. Because the Farm to Fork strategy focuses on a significant increase in organic farming, where yields per hectare are often much lower. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect extensively on the one hand the importance of food in relation to peace and stability, read: Nobel Peace Prize, and on the other hand an agenda that takes another turn, namely the Farm to Fork agenda. This leads to less production, risks of misharvesting due to the lack of sufficient plant protection, and is less focused on innovation and technological development. We have a good place here in our western society, but we do have a responsibility for those who have it less, elsewhere in the world. It seems a little black and white, but I think there's some truth in it, so I'd like to invite the Minister to go into this. Mr. Chairman. We can, and can fill in our farmers and gardeners by focusing on sustainable food production, and on innovation and development. This not only benefits a better world, but also our nature. In that connection, I have another quote from Simon Rozendaal. He put this together nicely in his column. "If we want to preserve biodiversity, the yield per hectare should rise, not decrease. The modern farmer must therefore be hugged by nature lovers instead of sarcastic and mocked." It is a quote, I say in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand. Mr. Chairman. I don't call the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for nothing. My colleague Arne Weverling will be discussing this in a moment. But CRISPR-Cas is one of those important innovations that we are rich. Innovation is in our genes. The solutions to many of the challenges within the LNV domain lie in a convincing choice to give innovation a wider job. Our country has the solutions to global food issues, reducing emissions, and smart techniques to save labour. Unfortunately, the scope for innovation is not self-evident. In policy notes, you often have to look for innovation as a solution to a problem or to a societal challenge. Important advisory bodies that advise the cabinet are not always focused on innovation as a solution. And the experimental space is limited. Mr. Chairman. In practice, too, entrepreneurs have to deal with these restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u44	I am listening to the story of the VVD about Dutch agriculture. The VVD is extremely proud of Dutch agriculture and mentions all kinds of reasons why we should be proud of it. But at the same time we have seen in recent years how dissatisfied the farmers themselves are. How does Mrs Lodder see her own role or the role of her party in this? It's been VVD policy for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u45	That's what I've been trying to sketch. Farmers have had a lot to choose over the past few years. And they are all important subjects. That's what I just mentioned in my story. So it cannot be that we say: we are not coming up with a solution. No, we'll have to work on a solution. It hurts sometimes, too. I myself have experienced this very clearly in phosphate legislation, and we are now seeing it in the case of nitrogen and in the case of the corona crisis; I shall come back to that in a moment. So these are important elements, but I also think that perhaps too much has been said about farmers, rather than seeking a common solution with the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u46	Mrs. Lodders pretends to be natural phenomena that descend on the farmyard. Corona is an exception; that is, of course, a pandemic that we did not cause ourselves. At least you can argue about that. But I just don't understand why Mrs. Lodder doesn't put her hand in her own bosom anymore. She says, "We talk about farmers, not farmers." Then why hasn't the VVD done that in the past few decades? Has there been a change of heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u47	I think I might be the example of someone who often, very often, speaks to farmers. In any case, you cannot accuse me of making no proposals. I've been talking for years and I'm also making a proposal today to opt for innovation as a solution to some of the problems we face, and to take it further off the ground. I think we have really been left behind in this area in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u48	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u49	The VVD has, in my opinion, been very opposed, in my opinion it has not cast its eyes forward at all. In my opinion, the VVD has supported a very conservative policy that has now made farmers victimized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u50	Those are the words of Mrs Bromet. I think it is very important that we give farmers perspective. That is what we are trying to address in all the policy documents on all the subjects we are working on. That is what we are proposing. Unfortunately, they don't always make it, but I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u51	But that's just not true, is it? "We make proposals and they don't always make it." The VVD just decided it! Rutte I, Rutte II, Rutte III, and before that the CDA was at the helm. Actually, that was the same thing. What proposals has the VVD made that have not made it and that would have led to it... Excuse me, Mr President, I am completely confused by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u52	Emotion, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u53	...that would have led the farmers not to be in this crisis right now? And that would have led to the construction sector not saying now: wait a minute, that agricultural policy puts our entire sector in bankruptcy? I thought it was the VVD that was on the buttons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u54	We have put forward proposals for innovation and focus on low-emission agriculture, i.e. less emissions, and I am still doing so. I do not believe that it is the Animal Party that shares that kind of proposal with us. You choose a different route. It's okay. There are other parties who also choose a different route. This is the solution for us and we are working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u55	No, the honest story is that it was the VVD that wanted there to be no rules after the abolition of the milk quota, which, as predicted, had to come up with rules. That became the phosphate rights system, which Mrs Lodder now says: that was difficult. Yes! Because the VVD has beaten warnings in the wind. It was the VVD that agreed to that failing nitrogen policy, which now completely silences the construction sector and the farmers themselves. It was the VVD all the time. Those fingerprints are all over the place. The VVD has agreed to the deal with Ukraine. The VVD likes to make a deal with Brazil, which leads to unfair competition. All the VVD. Those few motions in which you could then say "it seems good that we are also doing some innovation, because that helps the farmers," these are, of course, pubes to hide that you yourself have been responsible for this mess. Just say it honestly! It's the last time, this budget. Fairly admit that the system is completely jammed and that the VVD has done nothing but make the problems worse for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u56	That is Mrs Ouwehand's analysis, and I will leave it on her behalf, because I do not share it. We have had endless debates about the situation in dairy farming. We have chosen a different route to the Animal Party and some other parties. You're talking about shrinking livestock. No, we see the whole of agriculture, including dairy farming, the whole of livestock farming, as part of our food production. I think I've outlined why I think it's so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u57	Short!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u58	Mrs Lodders points exactly to the point. We have had lengthy debates on this. That's right. Every time it's about the same dung well spinning around, because the solution is there, but it's not recognized by the VVD. It's the elephant in the room. We already know for a long time: if you don't deal with this at the heart, then you charge the farmers with extra rules, then you force them to invest, in air scrubbers, in low-emission stable floors, and then two years later it doesn't turn out to be enough. That stacking of rules is exactly what the VVD itself has taken care of. Well, at least be a guy, or the equivalent of that, to say, yes, that's right, it's just my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u59	We see a different role and added value for agriculture and food production, not just for the Netherlands. In Europe and worldwide, our knowledge, our innovation and our expertise are extremely important to ensure that we cannot feed people around the world alone from the products we produce here with each other, or produce our farm gardeners. It's this knowledge, these innovations, they're incredibly important. It is not for nothing that I refer to Rob de Wijk's article on how important it is not to be naive. I can advise Mrs Ouwehand, or at least recommend, to read that article and see what problems there are worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u60	In 2001, the Wifefels Commission was set up under Purple II. Then the VVD was also in the government. At that time, it concluded that livestock farming had exceeded the limits of the acceptable and permissible. That was 2001. What has the VVD done under your period of office? It is also your last budget to do something about it, so that the farmers' families no longer get in trouble? What did the VVD mean to those peasant families?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u61	We've had a lot of conversations with farmers. We are the party that where challenges are identified, where problems are identified, where we want to work on a number of objectives, yes, you can shake no, but it is simply yes where objectives are, to work on a solution. Soon we'll be dealing with the Nitrogen Act. That's what we did on the climate. In the end, we have also assumed our responsibilities in the dairy sector when it comes to phosphate rights. And our most important commitment is innovation to make sure that with less emissions we can ensure that sufficient food is produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u62	So you didn't do anything. That is for a party that claims to stand up for the peasant families quite a lot. Because if you don't do something, two things will happen. The first is that we go even further beyond the limits of the permissible, which means that we have to intervene every time. And the intensification and scaling continue. So basically, the family businesses are going to die if you don't do something and the agro-industry, which the VVD is actually advocating, is going to win. What did the VVD do for these peasant families? I'll give you another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u63	I'm going to repeat myself. I don't think that's wise, especially considering the clock, which also ticks. I think I just indicated what we did. Perhaps I can put it short: we do not support the course that D66 proposes to halve the livestock. That's not the choice we make. We have a high priority for food production here in the Netherlands. We would like to share our knowledge, our expertise, with the rest of the world to ensure that sufficient food is produced there in a more sustainable, better way than is currently happening on other continents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u64	I can mention countless moments, including the previous Rutte Cabinets, for example the Law on land-based growth dairy farming. The sector, LTO, NZO, together with the environmental movement wanted 100% land under the expansion of dairy farming, but the VVD said: no, that must be 50%. That is why phosphate rights had to be introduced. So you have done nothing for those farmers' families, because that is why they are now dealing with all this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u65	We have done a great deal for farmers' families, because I think that at least this has maintained a lot of families who can still do their farms at the moment. And are we there when it comes to phosphate legislation? No, we're still not here, because there are still families in confusion. But at least I'm glad we've been able to offer them perspective. I am about to propose innovation to ensure that we can also invest towards the future and that we can achieve low-emission agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u66	I also feel compelled to interrupt, because to my taste Mrs Lodder avoids the essential questions. I'm also very proud of our farmers. They work hard. They work with passion. I am also proud of the knowledge and innovation in the Netherlands. But should we also be proud of the economic market model in which these farmers operate? That economic market model gives too low a working income. We simply need European support, and even so we need it. That economic market model gives a lot of uncertainty. This economic market model provides a very strong incentive for production maximization and scaling, putting increasing pressure on family businesses. Is Mrs Lodder proud of that economic market model, for which the VVD is responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u67	There are some improvements to be made. That, of course, is why we made a number of agreements with each other in the coalition agreement. A bill has recently been sent to the Chamber by this minister. We haven't dealt with that yet, and we haven't discussed it yet when we're going to deal with it. But as far as I am concerned, this is happening as soon as possible, so that we there I would have liked to have taken that step earlier. It is too simple what Mr Moorlag is suggesting, namely to turn it into a completely different model. That's really too simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u68	I'm not talking about a completely different model. I am asking for the existing model, given the farmers' dissatisfaction with that model, because they are in permanent uncertainty. Even if you burp well, you still have the uncertainty or it will be the same next year or the following year. Is this economic market model sustainable, even considering that the VVD has been responsible for that market model for decades? Should we not move towards a market model in which farmers can produce in a more relaxed way, even more in balance with environment and the capacity of environment and nature? Shouldn't we be adjusting that market model?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u69	As I said, a number of proposals have really been made. The Minister recently sent a bill to the Chamber. Sure, I also think farmers should be paid for the extra demands we make. That is really not happening at all. That is why I have just shared a number of examples with you. We ask for all kinds of things, sometimes we even demand all kinds of things, but in the end they are not paid for, whether they are consumers, supermarkets or whatever. That is why we want to agree on this. Because I think farmers should be paid for this when they take additional steps. We're not doing enough. I therefore call on the Labour Party to support such proposals if they are made. Because I think it's also the Labour Party that loves to sign off on all kinds of extra questions. But then we're gonna have to pull the wallet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u70	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u71	Yeah, we should definitely pull the wallet. Farmers are simply entitled to a decent income and they are entitled to a more relaxed business operation. But then the VVD must also take responsibility for a thorough reflection on the economic model in which our farmers are currently operating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u72	I hope that we will meet very soon on the recent legislative proposal, which includes market power. Then we will have the debate together and I hope that we will take some nice steps. So let's schedule that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u73	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u74	Mr. Chairman. I was in innovation and that entrepreneurs in practice have to deal with restrictions. Yesterday, in preparation for this debate, I was in contact with an entrepreneur. This entrepreneur's stable burned down in 2019. He has applied for a new sustainable stable, using source-oriented measures. The scheme states that the government will then take a decision within 13 weeks. But this thirteen-week period has been extended by 13 weeks. In the meantime, this entrepreneur runs into the deadline of an insurer and the Tax Administration. Both want the insurance money to be reinvested within a certain period of time. The Minister knows other examples, because I have raised this point several times. The Minister is a warm advocate of necessary sustainability. So that's what these innovations are for, but that's what it's for. The VVD proposes to appoint a Special Envoy to advise the Cabinet on the LNV domain, but also on other relevant topics and ministries. I am curious to see how the Minister views this proposal. For the second term, I have a motion in preparation. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a few brief points before my colleague takes over. I'll start with corona. Corona affects all of us, and that certainly applies to the agricultural sector. During the first wave, the Minister supported a concession for horticulture and fries potato growers. But there are more sectors that are in a tight spot. ABN AMRO has recently issued a report which concludes that the recovery in Dutch agriculture is taking longer. This at a time when the sector is already being asked a great deal. I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on this report. During an earlier consultation, the Minister, at the request of Mr Geurts and myself, promised a consultation with calves farmers. I understand the Minister had a conversation with the sector. Can she share her findings? I understand it was an emotional conversation when I had the people of the week on the phone and got a feedback. The chills then run over your back, because these people have been affected since the start of the corona crisis, because outlets have dropped. So far they have had no support whatsoever. My question to the Minister is: when can these young families receive perspective? In general terms, on the corona crisis and aid measures, I would ask the Minister to allow the TVL to be accessible to agriculture as well. I ask this Minister, but we will also raise this point with other members of the cabinet, because I understand that it is a real problem. Mr. Chairman. The VVD advocates a strong government. This also applies, of course, to our implementation organisations. The NVWA is such a performance organisation. Recently we had several letters about the development of the NVWA. That's what worries me. The organization is still not in order. Problems are persistent and the service is overflowing with more and more tasks and failing to remove tasks or cooperate with other partners. There is also a lack of efficient work. And I'm not talking about the lousy state of ICT. Entrepreneurs are the victims of these problems, because the problems are causing costs to rise. This week we also received a cry from the Agricultural Import Platform, Deltalinqs and the Rotterdam Harbour Company. Unfortunately, I do not have enough time to discuss the issue of NVWA in detail, but I would like to address the issue here. I hope that we will soon have a more extensive debate on NVWA. I assume that the Minister would like to do the same, because we need to talk about this with each other. Mr. Chairman. I would also have liked to have considered the situation surrounding the avian flu, but that was quite substantive. That led me to ask written questions about this yesterday. So I'll let that point go. Then one last point. The Minister has promised a letter on the phosphate indicator. We had it yesterday, but there is actually being referred back to a later moment. I would like to ask the Minister when exactly, because here too there is a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty and people are now facing great consequences. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u75	Thank you. Mr Weverling, also from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dutch agriculture and horticulture is a global leader in terms of efficiency and sustainability. That lead position has never been a reason for our farmers and gardeners to stop innovating. There's no other way. Land and raw materials are not infinite on this world. At the same time, the world population continues to grow and thus the demand for food. We all want to produce sustainable and environmentally conscious food, but then we must be prepared to face reality. Some still live in the delusion of a romanticized small scale: as long as our food is produced organically, locally and fairly, it will be fine. Once it is clear that we will not get there with small scale, there is only one solution for many: less, less, less. Less production, less consumption and less earning. Fortunately, there is another vision, a liberal, optimistic vision. Because it is possible to remain a large agricultural exporter in a sustainable and environmentally conscious manner. The solutions to many of the challenges in agriculture and nature lie in a convinced choice to give innovation even greater jobs. With even more efficient raw materials and land use, we increase yields per hectare, reduce the environmental impact and create more space for nature and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u77	A brief interruption for my colleague from the VVD. The world's population is growing and we need to produce more. I heard Mr Lodders say the same thing. Now, give me this pleasure. When we talk about the growth of the world's population and the need for more food, will we also talk together about combating food waste and combating food losses? I know that in developing countries half of what is produced does not even reach the consumer, because they do not have good harvesting techniques, because logistics is not in order and because crop processing is still in its infancy. My question to the VVD Group is therefore the following. When they talk about producing more food, that's fine; that's up to the VVD. But will we also say in one sentence: but we are also going to feed the world's population by combating all the food waste and food losses there are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u78	This is a very pleasant interruption by Mrs Dik-Faber. Because food waste must be combated as much as possible. In the same interruption Mrs Dik-Faber also talks about the knowledge and skills that are lacking in other countries and which we do have. So I would say: let's use it strategically. I saw Mr Rob de Wijk's article in De Telegraaf this morning. With our knowledge and skills, we can feed the world and combat food waste as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u79	Knowledge and skill are gonna help. We have fantastic colleges and universities here. That is the most important thing for my group. We may be discussing production for the world market later. I think it is more important that we feed the world from the Netherlands with our knowledge and that the focus shifts that way rather than to production for abroad. Anyway, we're gonna talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u80	The big advantage of Rob de Wijk's articles is: if you've read one, you've read them all, because he writes the same thing every time. But that's not why I came. I've developed a new hobby in the last few weeks. That is what Acts from the 1980s read back about manure debates. Mr Weverling will be pleased to hear that the VVD is completely consistent, because in the 1980s it said exactly the same thing: we have a manure problem, but we are going to solve it with innovation. After 35 or 40 years we still have a manure problem. My question is whether it is not time to conclude that this route may, perhaps, not be the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u81	Thank you for this interruption. I think technological innovation is a solution to a lot of problems, because there is just a lot of demand for a lot of things in the world. Innovation, technological innovation, is often the key to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u82	There's no pin to get in there. There is indeed a lot of demand for a lot of things in the world. It's hard for me to deny that. But let me look more at the recent past. We have recently received a report on barn innovations, the result of which seems to be disappointing. We have had the combined air scrubbers, but research shows that they produce less than we had expected and with which we have calculated. Isn't it time to say something about this? We invest a lot in that. Farmers also invest a great deal in this and we allow farmers to invest a great deal in it. That has to be earned back, but in the end it's far less profitable than we'd hoped. And five years later, we come to the conclusion that we have an insoluble problem. Then people are going to say that we need innovation and the new technology is coming at us on the horizon. Aren't we getting a little naive now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u83	I think it's very naive to keep bashing on agriculture and horticulture. I would like to ask Mr Futselaar which country is doing better than the Netherlands in the field of agriculture and horticulture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u84	Yes, but you're supposed to answer questions. If you're gonna ask them, it's gonna be a little chaotic. Was this your answer? Yes, that was your answer, I'll establish. Mr. Funtselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u85	When it comes to production per square meter: none. But there are also countries that have the most number of traffic movements per square meter. I do not think that this is necessarily something positive if it produces congestion and exhaust gases. On the other hand, agricultural production also has just shadowy sides. We all have to admit that, don't we? Large-scale production in a small-scale country creates problems in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u86	Fine. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u87	I like that questioning game. I was curious whether Mr Weverling knows another country which spends almost half of its land on livestock farming and in which people cannot find a house, also because there is no building, because there is a nitrogen crisis in which the same livestock farm had a decent finger in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u88	How many letters? Is there anything you can tell me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u89	I think it's a country with 188,000 letters. 'Cause there's no such thing, is there? This is just the Netherlands, isn't it? You need to be able to name those problems. That is a problem of livestock farming in a system in which we have only lost farmers. Over the last 20 years, half the farmers have been affected. So there are losers. People can't find houses. You can say that the Netherlands has the highest yield per hectare, but the total, the whole of it, has just put us on hold. If there is another example of a country facing the same problem, I would like to hear it from Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u90	Look, it's all about us being proud and proud of the knowledge and innovation that we have here in the Netherlands and which the world can benefit from. We just have to sell it a lot more. I would also like to invite Mrs Ouwehand to be more proud of the innovative capacity of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u91	Mr Weverling may be able to read the election programme of the Party for Animals. In this he can see that we are a warm supporter of the return of farming craftsmanship. I think that a great deal of important knowledge has been lost there, because it all has to be large-scale, because there is all monoculture. We have all forgotten about this, or at least we have lost that in agriculture, that you can keep your biodiversity, keep your soil fertility, and greatly reduce your use of poison if you use techniques that provide enough food without causing nitrogen problems. The VVD simply has to stop making it a sort of identity policy: if you don't say every five seconds that you're proud of the farmers, you'll be rubbed that you're bashing the agricultural sector. That's not how it works. We all want what's best for the farmers. The VVD would be wise to recognise the problems that exist and choose solutions that free farmers from this system, which only works against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u92	Let it rub you that farmers have to learn farming again, and I don't think we're gonna win the war with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u93	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u94	I didn't say it like that. I'd say read the Party's election program for the Animals. That's very inspiring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u95	I think we're working on election programs today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u96	When is the PVV's election programme actually coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u97	I wouldn't know. I shall look at the group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u98	Further on innovation and biotechnology. Biotechnology is indispensable. With biotechnology, we can make our plants and seeds more resistant to diseases. This will enable us to produce more with less water and protective equipment. For the development of groundbreaking biotechnics CRISPR-Cas even two chemists won the Nobel Prize this year. The Netherlands is the frontrunner when it comes to biotechnology and seed breeding. Last year the World Food Prize even went to the Dutchman Simon Groot because of his successes in the field of plant breeding. But developments are stagnating as a result of outdated regulation and an incomprehensible resistance to these innovations. In Europe, the strict rules for CRISPR-Cas mean that this technique is reserved for only large companies. Does the Minister agree with the crucial importance of promoting biotechnology, processing and gene processing within one's own species in the more sustainable production of food? Can it undertake to work with like-minded countries, such as Germany, Spain, Denmark and Sweden, to review European biotech rules, including those for CRISPR-Cas, to become commonplace in the EU? Innovation is also very important in fisheries. After a year of uncertainty, in which they also had to deal with Greenpeace terror at sea, our fishermen can use a windfall. However, as in biotechnology, this innovation is being countered in fisheries on the basis of unfounded fears. Pulse fishing, for example, which has recently been shown to be a particularly sustainable method of capture with less soil erosion, fuel consumption and plastic in the sea, is still prohibited. This is why the VVD has been advocating its lifting since the ban on pulses. Unfortunately, this is a long-term issue and fishing cannot wait for it. In the meantime, we are working on other promising innovations, such as fish with water spray. Funding was initially provided by the Ministry for the development of water spray. Does the Minister have any idea of the possibilities for a follow-up after this phase of research has been completed? Can the Minister tell us anything about the first preliminary results on the usefulness of this new technique? Can the Minister give an update on the state of the pulse ban? When will the case brought by the Minister be brought before the European Court of Justice? What is the next step after the presentation of the ICES report to the European Parliament? What can we expect from the European Commission's evaluation of the ban on pulses, which is expected next summer? Another example of a promising innovation in our food production is farmed meat. The Chamber discussed this extensively with the Minister at the beginning of the year. The Minister has taken a number of good steps along the lines of a VVD motion for an action agenda, and this deserves a compliment. Although it will be a while before breeding meat can be found in the shelves of the supermarket, we don't have to wait for that. We need to think about what production might look like right now. Chicken meat complements existing meat production and our farmers can contribute with their knowledge. Is the Minister prepared to explore the possibilities of setting up a cooperation project, together with producers and farmers or farmers' organisations interested in it, to explore what is needed for local production of farmed meat? Previously, the Minister indicated that he was going to talk to poultry farms. Can the Minister tell us what the outcome of these talks has been so far? What is the status of the research assignment on farmed meat at green colleges? Has a claim been made on the 15 million available for research into alternative protein sources from the farm meat research? The Dutch horticulture sector has had to show its resilience this year. After a deep valley in the second quarter, the way up was found, although it is still a spicy period for the food service companies supplying the catering industry. Our horticulture is not only resilient, but also sustainable and innovative. CO emissions from the horticulture sector are decreasing, while the share of renewable energy is increasing every year. Energy slurpers have made the sector an energy supplier. Within the seven Dutch greenports, each of them top regions, there is continuous work to accelerate these sustainable developments even further. This makes Dutch horticulture an ideal example of how efficient food production can go hand in hand with sustainability; knowledge that the horticulture must also strategically market internationally. The beautiful thing is: Dutch horticulture also delivers beautiful and delicious products. My appeal to the people who watch is: buy Dutch flowers, vegetables and fruit more often. This is not only good for horticulture, but also good for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u99	I'd like to go over some of the farm meat. Mr Weverling made a warm plea for more farm meat in the Netherlands. We are also leading the world in that. I would like to know how Mr Weverling looks at the current way of producing meat in relation to that new way. Is it the same people who are going to do that? Are they others? Are we gonna do it extra or are we gonna do it instead? What will society look like in ten years' time if we can use farmed meat?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u100	Chicken meat was conceived in the Netherlands in the 1980s. Growing meat is still something that takes place a lot in a laboratory. Previously with calf serum, but nowadays all this is no longer necessary; it can be animal friendly. There are a lot of processes going on. EFSA should find something about this in Europe. So before it's really in the grocery store, we've been a lot of years. However, I think it may well be that the laboratory world and the agricultural world are talking more about this and see if cooperation is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u101	My question was actually to see whether a lot of perverse effects of the current animal farming could not be eliminated by switching to farmed meat, such as loss of biodiversity, CO emissions, suffocation emissions, phosphate, dier-friendliness and slaughterhouses; all these problems that we are discussing here almost every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u102	What I think is important to stress is that farmed meat is an innovation that can be a good addition to the current production method, which is already very efficient. Chicken meat is still coming from laboratories, but its application can be a great challenge for the agricultural world. I actually invite both worlds to go in consultation with the Ministry to see if both worlds can work together to see if something beautiful can emerge from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u103	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u104	Not only Dutch people enjoy the food we produce here. For Dutch farmers, growers and fishermen, exports are of great importance. Fair trade rules are therefore very important. The Brexit therefore creates an enormous amount of uncertainty. The Minister's ability to reach a good trade agreement is limited but not entirely absent. When it comes to matters such as fishing, our position is very important. Some countries in the EU now seem to be cautious in proposing concessions when it comes to fishing. Can the Minister say once again that there can only be a trade agreement for her if long-term agreements have been reached on access to British fishing grounds for Dutch fishermen? When will it be satisfied with the agreement with the United Kingdom? What can it do to make fishing more comfortable? In addition to the European dimension, we can also prepare ourselves for the Brexit in our own country as best we can. The horticulture sector is also dependent on good trade agreements. Because fresh products are used, any kind of delay at the border is too much. The export of greenhouse vegetables alone is responsible for some 50,000 lorries per year, for which 300,000 health certificates are required. Is everything on the Dutch side ready to accompany this flow of trucks as smoothly as possible in the case of a no-deal? We have beautiful landscapes in the Netherlands. This is something to be economical, because nature is important for biodiversity, for the sight of our country, for our well-being and for recreation. That is why we continue to work for a realistic and feasible nature policy. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet continues its efforts to strengthen existing nature and plant trees through the Forest Strategy. At the same time, the Netherlands has a small, densely populated and flooded country. There's no room here for pristine wilderness. That is why it is so important that we remember that nature and greenery are not just something for the outside world. Green in the city is urgently needed, because climate change will cause cities to experience more and more floods, heat and droughts. It is precisely in the urban environment that green has enormous added value. Unfortunately, the attention one has in the city itself for greenery is often shrilled by the care for the nature that one has in the countryside. Even the most environmentally conscious townspeople in this Chamber have a backyard that still has the most resemblance to a tiled plain. To get the green lessons from the countryside to the city this year, on the initiative of the VVD, a hackathon has been organised by the Ministry where many good ideas have been presented to further green the city. How does the minister look back on that hackathon and the ideas presented there? In the coming years, the Floriade of 2022 with the theme Growing Green Cities will be a new benchmark to show our green innovations to the world. Until then, it is important that we continue to give greening and nature including construction the attention they deserve. There are many different initiatives, but also many unclear ones. We have a huge housing estimate, but how much is actually being built including nature? What purpose are we working towards? Isn't there too much fragmentation and too little central direction? In the last letter on nature including construction, the Minister indicated that she and the Minister of the Interior are inventorying the bottlenecks for nature including construction. Can the Commission explain the initial conclusions of this inventory? What about the development of the coherent approach to greening the built environment in the Urbanization and Living Programme? How is nature including construction incorporated in regional urbanisation strategies? How does the Minister look at an annual monitor to monitor the progress of natural and green urban development, so that it becomes clear where we stand at greening the city? What is the state of play with regard to the Floriade and the financial and intangible commitments that have been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u105	Warm words from the VVD for the greening of the cities. It is unfortunate that I, together with the CDA, am going to tell you about it later, and I am working on a note about greenery in the city. We will also come up with a proposal to amend the Building Decision, to force promoters of construction projects to build more nature-friendly. I hear the VVD all asking questions to the Minister about how she stands in it, but how does the VVD itself stand in it? Is the VVD willing to impose some more obligations on the construction of homes when it comes to nature-friendlyness?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u106	Green in town you should do, would be my plea: tile out and tree in. But imposing more rules wouldn't be my first reflex.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u107	That's how we remember the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u108	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u109	But, of course, I'm looking forward to your note. Mr. Chairman. Before I finish, I would like to say a few words about animal welfare in the Netherlands. During the debate on animal welfare two months ago, we concluded that too little progress has been made on many dossiers. Can the Minister state the state of play with regard to the positive list and talks with, among other things, Marketplace to improve registration and control of animal trade? Can the Minister promise that the bill for an independent restraining order will be sent to the Chamber this year? Can the Commission comment on what would be needed to make it legally possible to impose a ban on animal executioners, in addition to a restraining ban, so that they can no longer come near places where animals are kept? What is the Commission's position on a possible ban on imports of animals bred for certain dierron-friendly external characteristics, which is prohibited in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. I've come to a conclusion. Everyone wants to produce sustainable and environmentally conscious food. There is no other way, because raw materials and soil are not infinite. This can only be achieved if we start thinking about opportunities and green growth instead of thinking about limitations and shrinking. We have the knowledge and skills needed for this in the Netherlands. We should not just apply it here, but export it all over the world. In this way, we come out of the crisis, investing but also innovative. To speak in the words of a well-known VVD: green is good, but you don't have to make a left-wing story of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u110	Thank you. Who was that VVD guy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u111	It's a little further up here in a pointed building, in a turret.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u112	Okay. Clear. Then we will listen to Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Somewhere I'm gonna suspend for dinner. Who do you prefer to go out with: Mr Geurts or Mr Futselaar? Does anyone have a preference for that? No. I'll just let it float over the market for a while. Did you think your speaking time was another minute, Mrs Bromet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u113	I thought 12, but it says 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u114	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u115	Mr. Chairman. I will also use my input today to look back at the past year, because this is the last budget. It's my third budget of LNV. I'll keep a story about a new perspective on nature at the same time. We have many debates here. In December we will have intense debates on the solution of the nitrogen crisis and the solution of the mink problem. This is actually a nice opportunity to pay attention to other topics as well. When I talk about looking back at the last four years, frankly, there's a lot of disappointment. We started so well with circular agriculture. The sense in the vision of circular agriculture, which appealed to me very much and which was also widely supported, is that current agriculture is untenable. You would say that, three years ago, when you conclude that current agriculture is unsustainable, you are going to work to make it sustainable, especially because you see that the farmers themselves are not satisfied either. So you're gonna have to do something. I was already concerned when we discussed the vision of circular agriculture, because everyone was behind it. My concern has turned out to be justified, because I do not think it has come to anything. Maybe I missed something. But I would like to hear from the Minister what has already been done from the point of view. What can we see that, seen in a very long time, we are on our way to circular agriculture? It was a visionary piece, which was quickly overtaken by the crises that flooded agriculture. They were quite foreseeable, but for some they came as a surprise. I'm talking about the nitrogen crisis and the mink crisis. I find it very disappointing that we have seen a much too cautious minister who showed little leadership. The nitrogen crisis has been going on for a year and a half. We've all been driving 100 km/h, but nothing has changed at all in livestock farming. The mink are still walking around in the next month, while in other countries we see that they are loose and that there are mutated viruses. The children don't go to school anymore or may get Christmas holidays sooner, but the minks can still walk around. Then there is the polarization in the agricultural debate. I've known it for a long time, but it hasn't gotten any less; it's gotten much worse. The farmers were protesting in The Hague last week. I do not agree at all with some of the farmers' actions or the aggression with which they operate, but that there is something going on in the sector is one thing that is certain. Eventually, something will change in the agricultural sector and nature. This is not due to this current cabinet. That is thanks to one man who, as I imagine, sits alone in an attic and did not believe in the nature policy of the Netherlands. He felt it was unjust and continued the fight, to give nature the space it deserves. I'm talking about Johan Vollenbroek. He filed the lawsuit that led to the nitrogen crisis. And that will ultimately lead to the sustainability of agriculture and greater investment in nature. I would like to say something about this nature today in the context of unorthodox solutions or ways of thinking that we in the Chamber never talk about. The reason for this is very close to my own house. It's nice in politics that if you go through something yourself and you hang a little above it, you can see that it's a sign of something broader. In my case, it was two things that happened this summer. The first is my own meadow. I have a meadow of less than half a hectare. I have been living in this place for ten years and have tried very hard to make it look like the meadows around our house for the first few years: on the one hand, a Natura 2000 area and on the other hand, an agricultural area. That's a lot of work, because you have to mowing lawn, you can put sheep on it, you have to take the grass off if you want flowers, and that's what I wanted you to do. You have to empty the ditches every year so that the water flows away. After a few years of hard work, my husband and I thought, "Let's see what happens if we don't do anything at all." That was around this time last year. We haven't done anything. And what happened last summer was really overwhelming. I didn't know that nature was so powerful and that so much can happen in just one season. There were pitrus plants in the ditches, an abomination for farmers, but as a result the water remained on land for longer. There were whole fields full of sayings the place name Zegveld is a reminder of the plant saying that is very common in the peat meadow area. But with the plants that came and the change of vegetation there were also really many butterflies and mosquitoes. There was a pheasant that hatched little pheasants there. I had never seen all that in the years when we wanted it to look like the meadows around us. At the same time large boats came to me around the corner and sawing machines arrived. Later it turned out, I wasn't informed about it by State Forestry, for nature restoration measures. These are the nature restoration measures that take place because there is a nitrogen surplus in the Netherlands. And because we actually want rare plants and animals to have a chance, we are going to intervene very widely. Some here, Mr Madlener has just mentioned it, call it "gardening" and it seems that it is, because it is really super-heavy. The bush where I played as a child and that is already 50 years old, suddenly had to leave because there were ferns to come. I couldn't understand. I asked the authorities about it, too. They said: you do not understand, you need to look more closely at nature policy. Then I thought: if I do not understand the nature of GroenLinks, how can any cyclist who no longer looks at a swamp forest but at a stable standing behind it understand? That's where I really think things are going wrong. Those planes that fly over the Veluwe and where flour is poured down to bring nature to bloom, is not how I feel about nature. Nature is powerful of itself and nature should sometimes give you more space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u116	Am I hearing correctly that GroenLinks is actually advocating the re-evaluation of Natura 2000? What I hear is: recovery measures, what happens to all of us, trees are being cut down massively! Is what I just outlined the correct interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u117	No, but I also think sometimes you have to be critical about things that have been going on for years. You always have to keep looking at how to do something better. Biodiversity is falling year by year, despite the enormous efforts we are making. I will tell you in a moment about new ideas about nature, which can be complementary to the existing nature policy. I do not want to say that we must stop restoring nature now, but I would be careful not to forget the landscape, for example. That if you take a certain measure in a certain place that has a very big impact on the landscape, you think: maybe we shouldn't take that measure in that place. I don't understand why a swamp forest has to be removed that's been there for 50 years. I just don't get it. Then all kinds of other things are brought in, but they're about the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u118	One more time, Mr. Chairman. In any case, it is good that the CDA and GroenLinks can probably find each other when it comes to how we are going to strengthen nature. This does not necessarily have to be done through Natura 2000. There are other ways to do that. Does GroenLinks agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u119	I fully agree with that, because Natura 2000 alone is not enough for us in the Netherlands. To help nature, we will have to have a lot of nature in the Netherlands. Not only in Natura 2000 areas, but also on the farmland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u120	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u121	Mr. Chairman. The meadow I was just talking about intrigued me. I contacted a new professor we have in the Netherlands. Her name is Liesbeth Bakker, and she's specially appointed to study rewilding. Rewilding, as was explained to me, is the wildness of nature, just letting nature go. That could be from grass growing between the curbs to large international areas where large grazers run, and everything in between. The Netherlands has quite a history when it comes to wildlife, for example Space for the River. I would love it if we could put another project like this on the map, if we could create a Space for the River 2.0 or if we could, for example, change rules to make it easier for nature managers to let nature take its course. An example of this is the Kelderlieu judgment. That is a 1965 judgment on liability, which causes nature managers to remove trees very often because they are afraid that if they fall over on a walker or cyclist, they will be held liable for the damage. That is money from nature management that then goes to the removal of trees, which, if you let them collapse, can make a much greater contribution to nature. I'd like a response from the Minister. A second topic you could look at if you want to get away from the polarization in the agricultural and nature debate are the vermen in the Netherlands. Possibly all the beers are added together, the road and dike Bermen, the largest nature reserve in the Netherlands. We've got 250,000 kilometres of roads and that's 2% of our land surface. I was in Gouda this summer. There was the best roadside manager of the Netherlands and who actually told us how simple it is to manage roadsides in a way that really fascinates nature. That doesn't have to be very expensive at all. It's just another way of thinking. A lot of berm managers don't know how that works at all. That is why, in the second term, we will be putting forward a proposal to boost this level of knowledge so that the verges could act as a nature reserve. The question to the Minister is how she looks at it. Would she like to look beyond farmland and natural soil at what we do with all those roads, where plants can bloom and insects can find a home? Another topic on which, I think, the polarization is not so big.... that I noticed just before the input of the VVD and it is also characterized by the cooperation with the CDA... is nature in the city. GroenLinks is a strong supporter of intensive building in the city, because we believe that the rural area should remain green. We also think it is useful to build near amenities and public transport. That doesn't mean there shouldn't be a place for nature. In fact, we think that everyone should always have nature around the corner. I am working with Mr von Martels on an initiative paper to give an impetus to nature in the city. One of the incentives could be to adapt the Building Decision so that builders of homes or buildings are required to do more about nature including construction. I read today a fine example of construction company Heijmans, which already does that on its own. They are working on a housing project in Pijnacker, where they already attach climbing wires to the facades and plant climbing plants. That seems to me to be an example for many construction companies and also for us as a government to encourage this. I would also like a response from the Minister. I know it's not on LNV's territory, but we'll address the entire government when we address the minister. Finally, Mr President. I was talking to Liesbeth Bakker. I really thought it was a superinspiring conversation. I am very curious what she will do for research and what plans she will make for the Netherlands. She recommended a book to me. It's called Wilding and it's a book about an English family who owns an estate in England. They are farmers and they have been farmers for decades in the normal way, as the regular farmers in the Netherlands do. But it's starting to bother them more and more. They also have to deal with the other questions of society in England, much more nature included. They see that the soil is becoming more and more degraded. They can't hear birds anymore. And they decide to change the helm completely. This book is a record of what happens to their territory and how they find a new earning model. But the fun part is that they go to the Netherlands. I don't like reading English books at all, but I did read this book, in English, because I thought: I really want to read it. They go to the Netherlands, because the Netherlands is an example for these English. The Netherlands has the Oostvaardersplassen and the experiment that still runs there with the wildlife of nature. But the Netherlands also has all these ecoducts. We have a lot more ecoducts than in England. So you can see that the Netherlands has also been a guide country for nature management for many years. Unfortunately that has not been the case in recent years, but it is very inspiring to read this book. It's about a new way of thinking about nature. I brought a copy for the Minister, because it does not seem easy to be Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u122	We accept that and hand it over to the Minister. "Does it cost more than €50?" I am quite right to hear Mr Graus ask. Because if that's the case, the Minister has to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u123	No, I think it costs €20.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u124	20 bucks, okay. Don't run away yet, Mrs Bromet, because Mrs Ouwehand also wants a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u125	Seems like an interesting book, I'm sure. I have a little question about nature recovery. Mrs Bromet says: 'Oh, but what a drastic measure that really is'. I totally recognize that. Thanks for the lovely story. I also very much appreciate that Mrs Bromet is trying to find where we can get away from polarisation. But the misery with the restoration of nature is, of course, that these measures remain necessary as long as nitrogen pollution is not addressed at source. And then you come back to it: yes, it may be necessary for biodiversity to spread that excess nitrogen somewhere in an area. But that's so far-reaching that you actually have to agree with each other: this is once and never again. So this nitrogen crisis really needs to be solved. I know GroenLinks shares that with the Animal Party. But then again, I'm wondering. Those tough choices? A note with the CDA? At some point, you're gonna have to talk about this. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u126	That is why I said that we are going to have very strong debates in December. Because we're going to deal with a government law on nitrogen emissions. GroenLinks has made its own law, in which we say that nitrogen emissions should be halved by 2030, including in livestock farming. I also know that there are parties in the Chamber who do not want to do so at all. But it's mopping with the tap open now, and that's actually what I find painful. So on the one hand you say: we leave everything as it is and as it has been over the years, knowing that there is an excess of nitrogen. Yesterday we heard the news again that 97% of the locks are not clean in the Netherlands, also due to an excess of phosphates and nitrogen. And those "lovely naturalists" are actually the ones I want to describe. In fact, they are cleaning up the mess of the others. So I don't hesitate to say that at all, but sometimes you also need a bit of a beckoning perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u127	Very well, thank you. We're gonna listen to Mr. Geurts from the CDA. I note that Mr Futselaar is getting the hang of it after all. Perhaps Mr Geurts could start by telling us what the division of roles is between him and the other speaker of the CDA. I'm asking for this for the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u128	I hadn't thought about that, but the division of roles is just according to the spokesmen, and I think they are well known to all colleagues. So if you have any questions about nature, about farm meat or if you have any other difficult questions, ask my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u129	The difficult questions go to him, and the easy questions go to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u130	That's for the best today, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u131	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u132	Mr. Chairman. This year, nothing seems normal. We are facing a huge pandemic and an economic crisis. Many farms are in danger of falling apart. In July, I spoke to farmer Lucinda. She asked me, "Say it, how should we proceed, what future do we have with our children?" And last week I received a letter from another concerned farming family. That wrote that they often wonder if all the time and energy they have spent in their company over the past twenty years has been for nothing. These kinds of conversations, e-mails or letters should make us think. Well, at least they're gonna make me think. It is my heartfelt that there is such uncertainty and such a great sense of ignorance in agriculture. One false accusation after another is tossing our farmers and farmers' wives to their heads. Look at that boxing as a hardworking professional. I hope we realise what words matter. That is why I am standing here again today, as a representative of the people, to make the voice of the farmers heard. The Minister has also experienced, in the case of so-called calf fraud, that words and actions matter. I would ask her to reflect on the fact that, despite the commitment made to farmers themselves, it has not become any better. Mr. Chairman. We should be proud of and praise the agricultural sector and the fisheries sector. What they have achieved over the past few decades is a testament to craftsmanship and decisiveness. For example, ammonia emissions from agriculture and horticulture have decreased by over 65% since 1990. Meanwhile, we are constantly told that things are getting worse with nature. Can the Minister explain why with such a significant reduction in ammonia emissions we are still being told that nature's condition continues to deteriorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u133	A question from Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u134	I think you'll be told that regularly by the Minister. So my question to Mr Geurts is: do you not trust the figures you get from the Minister? In that case, I find that problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u135	When that question is asked like this, "don't you trust the numbers?', I'd like to know exactly which numbers. I've asked a whole set of written questions about how the clue of nature went. I asked those questions because I had doubts about what came to my attention. Then I'm going to ask the Minister whether or not the figures are correct. When we talk about calf fraud, figures have been provided. It turned out they weren't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u136	I didn't mention the calf fraud. Honestly, I've been quite sceptical about that since the beginning. I am talking about biodiversity and all the reports we have received, whether they are about insects or meadow birds or habitats in Natura 2000 sites. If you look on average, the picture is just very worrying.. not for all species, with some it goes quite well. If Mr Geurts says that he is going to ask the Minister if those figures are correct, then I think the Minister can only say that the figures I sent you are correct. You already know what answer you're going to get: what I sent, right? That is what the Minister will always say about what she has sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u137	What's the question? 'Cause I was just asking a question I'm expecting the Minister to answer. Mr Futselaar brings up all sorts of reports. I don't know which one. I will not deny that with certain elements in our creation things are less at the moment, but with other elements in our creation things are better. Then what are we referring to? I've referred to birds of prey here before. When I look, privately, where I live, they're on the pile. I can get 30 steps off it. I couldn't do that in the same place 15 years ago. So the birds of prey are doing much better, because I see them regularly. And with foxes, that's what I said. I heard a forest was taken from Mrs Bromet's house. Well, the foxes join me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u138	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u139	Then, through Mr Geurts, I ask the Minister whether it is not counterproductive at a time of declining biodiversity that coalition parties sometimes question that deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u140	I wonder what this will contribute to the discussion on how to proceed with agriculture, if the CDA, even at the moment, after statements by the Council of State, is telling farmers: but yes, we have already significantly reduced ammonia reduction and how do we hear that nature is bad? That's like: I used to drink 100 bottles a week and now only 20, but why am I still too fat? You can't question that data, can you? Doesn't that just make people confused and angry about the interventions that are needed? The Minister very much needs the support of the CDA to do so in a good way with the farmers. What kind of undermining position is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u141	All I hear is asking if we're taking an undermining position. The rest is all stand. No, we're not taking an undermining position. We are trying to build this society with building blocks, every day, pebble by pebble. We do this the way we do it. We don't question things. Yeah, I'll ask questions about a few things. That's what I did with the nitrogen. If you look at the RIVM model, then there is a deviation on a particular XY coordinate... I see your eyes closing and you start sighing, but those are just facts. On an XY coordinate it is very important how such a model works out. And we are shaping our society more and more on the basis of models. No, we should open our eyes and see what happens in practice and therefore measure more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u142	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u143	This can't be happening. Over the past year, the Netherlands has woken up about what can cause doubt in a society. We were all like, "What? Don't people believe there's actually a corona epidemic?" There are hospitals...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u144	Mr President, I object to this! That now the corona is pulled in...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u145	Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u146	...which I would question. Bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u147	Whoa, whoa, whoa...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u148	No, I don't accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u149	Mrs Ouwehand has the floor. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've seen and we're all surprised that hospitals were called because people just didn't believe there was a virus. That phenomenon. We have a responsibility to each other not to question the facts as they are, which can be very painful, so that we can talk to each other, with society, about how to do this. What we saw suddenly exploding in corona, we have seen in agriculture for 15 years, namely that parties like the CDA constantly question the facts, which, of course, makes farmers angry. They said, "Why is there a nitrogen problem all of a sudden?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u151	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u152	That wasn't sudden, but the CDA never said to the farmers: hey, watch out, these are the facts; we're going to go through changes. Now Mr Geurts still does. I just don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u153	I very much object to the addition of corona, which is being used as an example of doubt. Well, you don't find that at the CDA at all. The way in which you conduct this debate in this way is far from my point of view. We can really ask: if you have already reduced so much and you still have to do a lot of things... I won't deny that at all. We will continue to do this in the nitrogen debate, and I have made this clear in the debate on nitrogen. But if you look at the future, you can ask what the effect of the work you are doing is? I'm asking those questions right now. I think that's okay. I will pursue that in the nitrogen debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u154	Mrs Ouwehand, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u155	I think the CDA, like all the parties here, has just a responsibility. The CDA dives for that, because you know it's not about whether you've reduced ammonia emissions in recent years. You know it's about how bad nature is now, what the load is now and what needs to be done to reduce it. My objection is that you are not helping farmers who have to deal with measures if you keep asking these kinds of suggestive questions like there is no need to change anything in that livestock farming. Mr Geurts is well aware of the need to do so. Stand for that! Take that responsibility!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u156	Here again the frame is laid on me that the CDA would not want any changes at all. I'd say take a look at the coalition agreement. Look at our election programs over the past decades. We are definitely going along with that. Now the frame is laid down here that we wouldn't want anything. No, the Party for Animals simply wants to leave the entire livestock sector of the Netherlands. Yeah, we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u157	If you want to solve a problem, I think we are appointed to do so here, you must first agree on what the problem is. 85% of biodiversity in the Netherlands has disappeared over the last 100 years. I'd really like to fix that. I'd like to work that out with the CDA, too. Only, if we don't agree on what problem we're dealing with, how can we solve it? And how fair is it then, in addition to Mrs Ouwehand's speech, to the farmers themselves to pretend that there is no problem, when you actually know that there is a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u158	My position is not at all that there is no problem. We live in the rule of law and in there we are operating, also around nitrogen. I just heard that planes are pouring out a certain means over the Veluwe. I was talking to someone about that in the summer and I said, "Hey, what's going on here?" He says, "Do you know how the bike paths used to look on the Veluwe? Those were shell paths." Why did our ancestors do that? That was just to feed the soil in those woods with that flour and the ingredients that are in it. Mrs Bromet can then take a look at "Where is he going now?', But that's actually what happens in practice. We, as CDA, are certainly looking at that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u159	This is an answer that distracts us from the problem we have. We have a problem with the way the agricultural sector operates in the Netherlands. Then we can talk about shell paths, but that's a diversion. That gives farmers the feeling that they can just continue on the current road without knowing where to go. You better name where they should go, because then they can take action instead of denying all the time that something is going on and saying that they have done so much and that it has been enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u160	There continues to be "denial" here, but that is not the case at all. What matters to me is that if you want to offer perspective, you close an old barn door and you open a new one at the same time. What a lot of parties are doing here: they're talking about closing that old door, but they're not talking about opening that new one. Whatever's in between, I'll name it here and I'll bring it up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u161	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u162	Mr. Chairman. I am also proud that the CDA has been able to achieve several points in this cabinet. The CDA wanted the international position of the Dutch agricultural and fisheries sector to be strengthened. As a result, the agricultural attachés have remained and we have ensured that European requirements have been met as efficiently as possible by avoiding national headlines on European policy. Together with the SGP, we have been able to make the wide weather insurance significantly more attractive. Fortunately, we have also been able to bring about progress in the fight against barn fires. Because barn fires not only have major consequences for livestock farming, the family and their animals, but they also have a considerable impact on society. At the request of the CDA, the knowledge available has been unlocked and the Minister comes forward with a proposal for financial support for livestock farmers. The CDA has also been able to prevent the plant inspection services and the Dutch Control Authority from being brought under the NVWA, as the previous VVD/PvdA cabinet wanted. In addition, the CDA has always drawn attention to the situation at NVWA. We have forced the Minister to take a real look at automation, and a body of about 100 million emerged. How did the Minister give substance to the sentence in the government agreement, which states that the costs of supervision and enforcement are considered to be public costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u163	Madam President. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'll make it up to you with a stuffed cake. Mr. Chairman, I was biologists watching the Minister, and then I called you ma'am. I just wanted to talk to you about the barn fires. Once a motion from the PVV has been passed, I believe that in 2010 the insurance companies, together with the farmers' organisations and the fire brigade, had to come up with a stable fire prevention plan. That's when they got to work. Stable Safe also emerged from it, allowing animals to flee. Because animals have it in their nature that they want to get away from a heat source or from fire, because they are often just afraid of it. It's nice to put that in the election program, but why doesn't the CDA support this? I have asked the Minister for a test stand with Stable Safe, which the national fire department, the experts in this field, are not enthusiastic about because that is you and I. But then there must be a test, an insurance company wants to give a discount and farmers want to be able to work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u164	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u165	Why doesn't the CDA support that trial stand? I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u167	I have had this debate with Mr Graus before, and I think I have some knowledge of pig farming. I have also made it clear to Mr Graus that the system he is promoting is not going to work in practice as he thinks it is going to work. Why? A pig isn't gonna run out. That's gonna be in a dark corner, but don't run out. The system promoted by Mr Graus is dropping shutters. Not all the stables have shutters that can fall. The aisles are narrow, fall against each other, that becomes a triangle, and no pig comes out. I have tried to make that clear to Mr Graus on many occasions. I call on Mr Graus to talk to the pig sector. Try to find a pig farmer who wants to test that together with you in practice and then come back. But at the moment, I don't think you can find any pig farmer who wants to test it in practice and start applying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u168	I have had experts from the national fire department on this matter. They've been watching the footage of Stable Safe with me. They were excited about it. That is what experts are about. No pig farmer is competent in the matter of fire and how animals react to it. You also saw on the footage that the pigs ran away. It made sense for them to run out. Every animal wants to run away from fire, if possible. You don't have to be a pig farmer for that, trust me. So I really want to... This is an important point, Mr President, because if you look over all these years, hundreds of thousands of animals have been killed. If you're saying it's not true, why don't you want that test stand? Then give me a chance to prove ourselves right together with the Ministry. If you say "I am the all-knowing, I am the God Almighty; look at it," then that is not true, for I have always been right so far, and you have always been wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u169	Yeah, what are you gonna answer that for? Mr Graus can say a hundred thousand times that he is right, but he simply does not have it on this point. He has not yet found a pig farmer who wants to apply it in practice. I made the offer to Mr Graus: bring some pig farmers out of practice who would like to apply it; then we will go together to the Minister to see if we can move that forward. That's my offer. Mr. Chairman. I haven't achieved anything yet. I regularly argue in the Lower House that if farmers cannot sell products from vaccinated animals, it is guaranteed to go wrong in the event of an outbreak. If meat from vaccinated animals cannot be sold, farmers will not be vaccinated. A motion of mine has been adopted asking, for example, for the development of a fiscal provision to cover the financial depreciation of products from vaccinated animals. How are we doing on this? I hope I don't get to hear that: we're gonna take a look at that in early 2021. That was in the written reply, I think. Mr. Chairman. The points in my own initiative paper A fair sandwich have been included in the coalition agreement. As a result, the Authority for Consumer and Market, the ACM, has taken a closer look at the agricultural markets. The price monitor set up by the ACM will give a good picture of how the markets work in the coming years. Based on that, we can see where the room is to improve the earning model. The price monitor also shows the obstacles to even more sustainable production. Because this also applies: you can't do green when you're red. Mr. Chairman. My idea of a food separator has been designed in legislation. Exemption from the ban on cartels in agriculture and horticulture is on the way, and the Minister has my idea of cooperating in setting up producer and interbranch organisations through a cooperation ambassador in progress. Mr. Chairman. I was pleased to read in the budget the following sentence: "It is LNV's ambition to strengthen the market power of farmers and promote a more level playing field." So that is exactly what we as the CDA Group stand for. However, the budget does not read how the Minister intends to achieve this ambition. The same applies to innovation. The Remkes report states that innovation should be given scope and that innovative products should be placed on the market sooner. Can the Minister explain on both points how she sees the further development? Mr. Chairman. The feeling of increased regulatory burden and financial burden makes it more difficult and less attractive for young farmers to take over an agricultural business. Investments and acquisitions are postponed because the financial resources and the prospects for the future are lacking. Can the Minister explain why the young farmers' fund has not been transferred? Mr. Chairman. The fact that Basel IV rules make cash flow a determining factor for the funding area has major consequences. You cannot ask farmers and gardeners to invest if the investment area is so uncertain, I ask the Minister. I am deeply concerned that the Minister does not have a clear idea of what this means for her policy and for our farmers' families and their income model. All things considered, it must also be economically feasible. Without a good earning model, every new dot on the horizon has no sense whatsoever. And without being aware of what has already been set in motion in the sector from the bottom up, changing and renewing always makes little sense. The CDA wants policy to be made from the bottom up from now on. No more The Hague drawing board plans. Governments, farmers, land managers, consumers and scientists must sit down together again. To speak with former Minister Veerman: "We must begin to understand each other again and jointly seek new ways out of respect for each other's vision or interest. Only in this way can we develop and ensure the soil on which we live, the solid ground of our sustainable and harmonious existence." What about the government? Let them give direction, give space and set frameworks. So that's what it is. As for the way, the how, there is creativity in abundance. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. The CDA has confidence in people, trust in society and therefore trust in the future. Moreover, the CDA does its work in the conviction that God's creation was given to us to manage her well and better leave her behind for our children and grandchildren. Above all, I wish the Chamber, the Government and the officials God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u170	Thank you. Then there is Mr von Martels from the same group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u171	Thank you, Mr President. After two and a half hours of debate, I almost filled my agricultural budget bingo card. That's the bingo card of LTO Nederland. I think I still need the contribution of D66 and the Party for Animals to actually fill it. But apart from that, Mr President, I too would like to begin my speech by praise and appreciation for all the efforts of the growers, farmers and fishermen. But many entrepreneurs are in uncertainty. In many sectors, earnings are low and the prospects for the future are unclear. To the cabinet the obligation to strike picket poles that can guide the entrepreneurs, provided that it is mainly ensured that these picket poles are not moved to the end of the day. It requires a political responsibility to be constantly aware of it. When it comes to agriculture and nature, we see that there is often a large polarisation. We would like to overcome these contradictions. We see that the basis for a sustainable future often lies directly around the corner in the unique Dutch landscape of water, polders and nature. By working on a cleaner, healthier and greener environment, the CDA wants to contribute to a more sustainable future. Our companies and knowledge institutes have the expertise for agriculture, water and energy. This will enable us to achieve results and develop new opportunities for a sustainable economy in our country and the rest of the world. In fact, we're already doing very well. David Attenborough's compliment on greenhouse horticulture in the Westland in particular is striking. Moreover, agriculture is not mentioned for nothing in the top sectors policy. An example of a promising future application is, for example, smart farming. This allows you to measure with special sensors and accurately how much water, nutrition and light is needed to allow a crop to grow successfully, with less waste. New opportunities can also be created with the use of new techniques, but a strong support base for both agriculture, horticulture and fisheries must be provided with a viable and affordable perspective. Mr President, it will not surprise you that while we are talking about feasibility and affordability, I am coming to Natura 2000. In answering my questions about the Wierdene Veld, it appears that the cost of the investment to maintain the high peat in the Wierdene Veld is estimated at EUR 39.5 million. EUR 8 million is needed for measures in the nature reserve itself and EUR 31,5 million is needed for measures on agricultural land outside the nature reserve. I'll be honest with you, this scared me. What a huge amount of money! I wonder to what extent it is still justified to develop an area of 420 hectares with such high social costs. Water extraction is more important to us than sticking rigidly to a million-dollar task of keeping that very small piece of active peat of 125 m. And if we have spent that EUR 39.5 million, how sure are we that this will actually be effective? Within how many years will this be achieved? And then we have 161 Natura 2000 sites! The CDA has already pleaded several times for a review. What possibilities does the Minister see? What is its commitment in Brussels, in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u172	Why does Mr von Martels think that these 39.5 million should be spent? How can we explain in this context that the polluter pays?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u173	How it is to be spent, that is not the point. It's just that we spend such high social costs on something we don't even know about. We have yet to see whether we are going to achieve the objectives we have set at all. That is where my question lies. Is it still to be justified to make such high social costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u174	Whether it is justified is a political question. But it's possible. That's what all the tests show. We don't have to doubt that. We can take that as a starting point. They are social costs, but it is actually very nice that society bears those costs. In fact, these costs belong elsewhere, namely to the polluter. The farmers sitting around the Wierdene Veld, who use the land there and who make sure that the peat between them is in bad condition, are the ones who should pay for it; or the consumers. We agreed to do that as a community. Even that's what the CDA thinks goes too far?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u175	I'm sorry. I thought I would get GroenLinks on my side when dealing with Natura 2000 sites. Moreover, it is said that farmers are the major polluters. On the contrary, farmers, the agricultural sector, are working very hard to reduce nitrogen emissions, ammonia emissions. We just heard the numbers. 65% since 1990. That's a huge reduction. Let's take a look at the source approach first. Mrs Bromet has also argued in favour of this. That's what we're doing. Let us then see if all the efforts we want to make in Natura 2000 sites are still really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u176	I heard Mr von Martels again talk about re-evaluation of Natura 2000 sites. That's when a vein started knocking on my chest. Because this has often been discussed over the past year. Among other things, at the request of the CDA, there has been a review throughout the summer. There have been two expensive desks busy to see if there can be recalibrated. The answer was really simple: no. That was the answer: no. So my question to the CDA is: how much tax money do you want to burn up at external consultants before the CDA stops running away from reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u177	If we really were to run away, we would have said: Natura 2000 must be completely on the shovel and must disappear completely. All we're saying is that we want a review. We came up with these plans at the beginning of the 2000s, so that they can be reviewed from time to time. That's even an obligation. We should definitely keep doing that. It seems to me, therefore, that requests for a re-examination are certainly justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u178	There's an answer to that question. Personally, if there's a clear answer to my question, I don't think it's wise to keep asking him. I am glad that Mr von Martels is not saying: we should really get rid of Natura 2000. But I do say here: the elections are in three months' time. I wouldn't be surprised if the CDA gets a little closer to that position as the elections get closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u179	I don't quite understand the latter. What point of view? I wonder what Mr Futselaar means by the latter. Crawl closer to what point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u180	I mean that calling for Natura 2000 sites to disappear is a thankful election point for the CDA, traditionally and still.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u181	There is, however, a difference between "must disappear" and "reprove." I brought the latter forward in particular, so that's where the nuance is. Let's stay in Brussels for a while, Mr. President. Unless Mr Futselaar...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u182	Short and pointy, one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u183	The CDA has already regularly asked in Overijssel to literally delete the Wierdene Veld as a Natura 2000 site. That's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u184	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u185	There the choice must be made between either a water-winning area or a Natura 2000 site. That's right. Moving on, Mr. Chairman. We're staying in Brussels, at least, as far as I'm concerned. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that the cabinet is committed to getting a technique such as CRISPR-Cas.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If we want to achieve an almost emission-free and almost residual-free future for plant protection, see the Future vision of plant protection, then we need this processing technique very much. What's the status? What is needed to be able to take steps forward? I recently advised the Minister to travel to Brussels more often, because the solution must come from there, even when it comes to pulse fishing. This year ICES concluded that, based on scientific research, fishing for sole with a pulse trawl in the North Sea scores on relevant sustainability aspects better than fishing with a traditional beam trawl. What possibilities does the Minister see to serve the Dutch innovative fisheries sector on this particular subject? I have to keep talking, because three minutes is very little for the rest of my subjects, such as food knowledge. To reduce transport distances, the CDA plans to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables grown in Europe. In this way, we want to make it more attractive to buy European fruit and vegetables than fruit and vegetables from outside Europe. Has the Minister read the CDA election programme yet? I understand today that we read each other's election programs very well. Has she seen this particular idea? What's her first reaction to that? Mr. Chairman. Then a trip to many other things: the meadow birds. Recently I submitted my own initiative paper Wide view of the meadow birds. In addition, last week the attack plan grutto appeared. The focus on the subject is understandable, because our country has a special responsibility for the protection of meadow birds. There are no more meadow birds than in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, however, there is a significant decline in the meadow bird population in the Netherlands. With the current meadowbird policy, we are unable to stop the decline in the number of meadowbirds. If no action is taken, a large part of the grazing bird population will not be found in the Netherlands in the foreseeable future. Not only the grutto, but also other meadow birds tell us an important story. We must take this sound very seriously. What sounds has the Minister received and how does the Minister intend to contribute to a trend break? More budget for agricultural nature and landscape management seems to be one of the key prerequisites for a successful approach. Is that how the Minister sees it? Now I have the taste of filing...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u186	On the previous point, Mr Weverling. I'll remind you that we're heading towards dinner, so keep it short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u187	I would actually like to invite Mr von Martels to comment on his note, particularly the predators. How does he intend to deal with that in relation to the meadow birds and the grutto?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u188	That's quite a question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u189	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u190	I mean, we're going to have another debate on the meadow birds. Very specific: it is an integral plan, also a predation plan. The approach of predation is part of this. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u191	We'll talk about it later; we'll keep it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u192	I was also at the presentation of that attack plan. Mr von Martels is aware that the main point of this attack plan is that we really need to organise agriculture in a completely different way. We need to stop artificially lowering the water level. We need to stop with these monocultures. We really need to decorate our farmland in a very different way. How does Mr von Martels feel about that? That's really at the heart of that plan of attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u193	This is an integral plan. Moreover, it targets six provinces; not the whole of the Netherlands. It is about the very specific meadow bird areas, where the grutto occurs. That's what this plan is about. Mr Wassenberg is right to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u194	It is true that it concerns six provinces, but the main cause is the way in which we set up our country. This explicitly refers to intensive farming and livestock farming. Then we'll have to do something about that, won't we? Then we can't just go to nature management, can we? Then we will have to start with step one, namely a very different way of farming and livestock farming, for example by reducing the number of animals considerably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u195	In these specific areas, something will have to be done and a corresponding compensation will have to be made. So the farmers also need to see the earning model. Only if all the conditions are met can we be successful. Predation management is part of that. There's another habitat there. I can mention a number of factors; there are a lot of them. All factors must then play a role. When I come to a motion on predation, I assume that Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party will support it, because that is part of the overall plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u196	Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u197	That's what we've been talking about. Predation management was said above all: that means primarily the placing of grids and not the firing of animals. It was also said: it is really the very, very, very last step. What I'm afraid of is: we're going to start with the low-hanging fruit: we're going to explode. Again, the fox is not the guilty one; the farmer!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u198	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u199	I keep repeating myself. Let us also give this particular subject time to be specifically discussed. It is so extensive and that is precisely the beauty of this plan that it has to meet all aspects in order to be successful. The fact that Mr Wassenberg is now bringing up the way farmers are doing is fine, but that includes all the other aspects. We can make a deal just fine. This Grutto attack plan can succeed, but all conditions must be met. That's a big deal. I hope that the Animal Party will support this wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u200	I would actually like to compliment Mr von Martels. I think it's a good thing he wrote a note about meadow birds. I am also glad to hear that he says that the operation in the specific areas where the grutto still has a chance will have to change. I am also pleased that he refers to the Grutto attack plan, because that is a plan of the farmers and the conservationists together. I understand he's coming up with a motion. I'm very interested in signing with you. Not if it's just about predation, but if it's about the overall plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u201	Compliments can be received.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u202	That's pretty much taken away, so thank you for that. I do come up with motions. With regard to the Grutto Attack Plan, I assume that almost no party can be against it, because it is a good plan. It can only succeed if we all put our hands on it. To be continued. Now that I have the taste of submitting an own-initiative paper, the next one is already in the making. Mrs Bromet has already mentioned it: the note is about nature-inclusive cities. As a CDA, we want to invest in a visible greening of the living environment. In the large cities, urban green and parks are given priority over a further compaction of the living environment. Green in the city contributes to an improvement of the environment, it promotes biodiversity, reduces air pollution, provides water storage, dampens noise and cools in hot periods. At first glance, you might say that these tasks should be taken up locally, but it is very important that the government should take more direction. Is the Minister aware of this? Finally, the subject of wildlife damage. This is handled on behalf of the provinces by BEL12. In 2019, the provinces paid more than 25 million euros in compensation for wildlife damage. Gradually, the open-ended scheme seems to be getting out of hand. In particular, geese cause a lot of fauna damage to grassland. When will the Minister take steps to bring this undesirable situation to a halt? Even a half-life of these cattle seems to be too modest a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u203	The Minister says that they are not cattle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u204	I understand that, but I wanted... anyway, I think the message is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u205	Apparently not, because the minister has been confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u206	I've got eyes for these cattle. There could be a halving in that. I'm trying to establish a connection to D66. We agree on a number of points, but we do not agree on the question of which livestock is involved. Then we'll come to a different conclusion. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u207	Thank you. At 19.45 p.m. we are going to listen to Mr Futselaar in part 2 of this debate. Again, at 11:00 we really have to be outside, so we're gonna do it quickly and briefly. We've got 50 minutes of Party for the Animals ahead of us. That's all part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u208	Are you ready for this, Mr. Futselaar? Then I will reopen the debate on the Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality budget. We still have a number of speakers to go. Again, because of corona and other things I want to be able to finish fairly quickly today. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will only be Minister of Agriculture and Nature at this time; I am not just talking about the hour of the debate. You will only be a minister of a policy area where interests and contradictions have clashed head-on over decades, in which farmers demonstrate massively and in which environmental organisations process structuralally. At the same time, you are responsible for our declining biodiversity, our nitrogen problems and some of our climate problems, but also for a steadily declining profession, some of which have structural income problems. On the one hand, it is a policy area characterised by very serious, urgent and complex problems and, on the other hand, by conflicting interests and large polarisation, which make it difficult to find solutions to these problems. Mr. Chairman. It cannot be denied that this minister has done her best to bring parties together and try to overcome contradictions. That is understandable, because these contradictions are found not only in society, but also in the coalition, on which the cabinet leans. The Minister, who, with the exception of the corona crisis, may have the greatest task and problems of all her colleagues in the cabinet, also has the least political margin of manoeuvre. Unfortunately, this is noticeable in practical policy. Looking back on the past three years of cabinet policy, we see many ambitious policy notes, but little concrete legislation, while the urgent and major problems we have require radical measures. These measures have remained largely absent. Think of circular agriculture, plant protection products and manure policy; there is no shortage of views. The horizon is barely visible because of all the dots we have put on it. But in practice, very little has changed in the natural areas, in the fields and in the stables. Frankly, I have sometimes wondered why these farmers came here on their tractors, because I think the worst thing that the cabinet has done to them is a voluntary buy-out scheme. Mr. Chairman. Of course, a coalition partner occasionally calls for something wild, for example about halving the livestock or deleting some Natura 2000 sites. But that has no consequence whatsoever. Because it is not translated into practical policy, it remains completely gratuitous. Apart from those tough words, this coalition has been holding itself in an ideological grip for three years, leading to standstill and passivity. The most deadly we've seen around the nitrogen file. That is the tragedy of this cabinet in this policy area. Never were the problems in the rural area so great and rarely were the government's actions so small, except in terms of compensating mink owners. Then, of course, a lot can be done very quickly. Mr. Chairman. What is the urgency? We're gonna talk about the nitrogen bill soon. So I will not dwell on that for too long. But we have flown out of the bend with nitrogen ecologically and legally. After a year and a half we are still moaning in the guardrail. Something similar seems to be happening around the Nitrates Directive and the Water Framework Directive. Yesterday, the Minister sent us another letter about this, which shows that we all fail to achieve goals and standards in practice. We are really afraid that we will have a new nitrogen dossier hanging over our heads, regardless of the general desirability of our groundwater and surface water being of good quality. Then there's biodiversity. We talked about it before. It's still under pressure, from meadowbird to insect. The word "species richness" is not just a biological term. It's a word you have to take literally. In the wealth and variety of animals and plants lies part of our prosperity. If you notice that, you must also note that we are on average becoming poorer in this area. If we don't do something, our children and grandchildren will be much poorer. The biodiversity crisis is as big as the climate crisis, but unfortunately it does not receive half the attention. I do not have the illusion that we are going to solve all of this here in the last few months of this Chamber, but if I could ask the Minister something, it would be for her successor, even if she were to prove to be one, to pass on at least the following three priorities: nitrogen, water and biodiversity. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, a dossier on which there is also a clear need for action is the Dutch Food and War Authority, the NVWA. One of the few things that unite us as a Chamber is a kind of collective frustration about the functioning of that service, without affecting hardworking NVWA employees. But over the past few years we have seen that riots have piled themselves on scandal around this service, in a way that actually defies any imagination. ICT failures, investigations of the Public Prosecutor's Office that cannot be obtained, too close links between inspectors and slaughterhouses: it accumulates. Now, a report from Deloitte shows that the organisation has 100 out of 152 tasks to do with undercapacity, which in many cases leaves the quality of supervision inadequate. There are also structural human shortages in areas such as animal welfare, plant protection, manure policy and fisheries. Which means that there are insufficient eyes to monitor slaughter processes or, for example, manure processing, and that we are unable to meet the agreements we have made with each other but also with other countries on this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u210	I understand what Mr Futselaar said about the NVWA, because he is very much involved with the people but also with the animals that get into trouble there. I really appreciate that. But I'd still like to ask him a few questions through you, Mr. Chairman. At the moment there are a few whistle-blowing vets. I'm sure Mr. Futselaar has also spoken a few of them that they're just cleaning up. Literally. That cannot and must not happen. Really, Mr. Chairman, this is a very important point. I have checked whether these people have ever had warnings or not done their job properly. But that's not the case. Yet they're pulling them all over. And they all have to come on the mat because they leaked to politics. This while these people didn't feel heard by the management that was above them. What is Mr Futselaar going to do about it? How is he gonna help me, and us, because there are a lot of MPs who share this? What are we going to do now to get these people back, help them and rehabilitate them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u211	I am going to partially disappoint Mr Graus, I am sure, because there is a limit to how far you can deal with individual cases, even if there are several. I'll say two things. We know a House for Whistleblowers, partly founded by my party. In principle, people can go there. And right now, there is a committee dealing with the functioning and non-functioning of state services. One of the things that is under discussion there is Wim Kok's old ukaze who says that officials and MPs should not be in direct contact. I think it would be very good if we put an end to this as soon as possible. Then you can prevent people from being told: yes but, you talked to politics, that is not the intention. We can therefore also be informed publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u212	I spoke with Ronald van Raak, the initiator, here in plenary. He says it's really bullshit. He says it was never meant for that. Because every whistleblower has to be able to go straight to MPs. Because MPs can and can do anything, he said. You can really ask and Ronald van Raak will probably listen in. It's really not true. But what happens now? People are still going out. There's four or five more and they're all going out. Surely it is not possible for us to tell people who have trusted us that they are not being heard by the management, I noticed to the minister that she could not know what was happening; I do not blame the Minister for all those good people who have brought to light abuses, who have reported things about covid contamination, about abuses of animal welfare in slaughterhouses, just let them go? You can't do that, can you? Because we have listened to them and we have done something with them, but those people should not be punished now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u213	I agree, but fortunately we have something like labour law, which must be somewhat protected. I would also like to say the following. Even if you say that according to the letter of the law the ukaze-kok or whatever it is called is nonsense, it doesn't matter if it is carried out in practice. Because then that is what officials are faced with. And we need to do something about that. But we stray a little bit from the budget. I have often spoken with the Minister about the capacity problems within the NVWA. At NVWA they speak of "risk-oriented supervision." I prefer to speak of "martial law enforcement." You have a lack of people and then try to make the best of it by at least making sure the recidivists don't get away with it. I understand that, but of course it's not enough for serious enforcement. I do not feel that all problems with the NVWA with money can be solved, because that is not the case, there are other problems. But I'm sure it won't work without money. Hence the SP amendment to add more resources to the NVWA, specifically aimed at enforcement. Mr. Chairman. Something completely different. In April this year, the largest natural fire in modern Dutch history took place in the Peel. extinguishing lasted from April to the end of June and more than 700 hectares of forest were lost. That's about 1,100 football fields. It's a disaster, but it's also an expensive lesson. Because it has now become apparent that naturalists, provinces and firefighters are under-prepared for natural fires, while climate change will only increase the risk of such fires. I would ask the Minister, in consultation with all relevant partners and the Minister for Justice and Security, to come up with a national strategy to prevent and combat natural fires. As far as the SP is concerned, at least the elements must be taken into account as regards how to direct nature, communication between governments and groundwater levels, as these seem to be relevant matters. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has written to us that he wants to be a frontrunner in the field of animal welfare in Europe, but there are areas where we are clearly beginning to lag behind. One of them, which I would like to mention here, is in the field of cockroaches, some 45 million of which are destroyed annually in the Netherlands immediately after they come out of the egg. As an economic product without value, they are worthless. As far as SP is concerned, animals are not products. France has now banned this practice and Germany is struggling with the elaboration, but also wants a ban. As far as the SP is concerned, the Netherlands joins these countries by introducing binding regulations. Is the Minister prepared to take steps in this direction? Another sector in which animal welfare is not very good is duck farming. Although ducks are clearly aquatic animals, there is no access to water at all in practice. Last year I argued with the Animal Party in favour of ending the sector, which is not that big in the Netherlands. The Minister thought that was far too far. I would like to ask whether, now that the sector is almost completely quieting because of corona and now the bird flu, which the duck sector is so sensitive to, is once again in the country, is not now a time to reconsider. And if that is not the case, is the Minister at least prepared to finally regulate that access to water in duck farming really legally? 'Cause that's gonna take a really long time. Finally, Mr President. As of 1 January, the Netherlands is no longer a fur producing country. That's good. The next step is also not to be a fur-consuming country anymore. I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to go to the European level now to plead for a ban on imports and sales of furs. It is high time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u214	Thank you. It is also high time for Mr De Groot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u215	Mr. Chairman. Corona has shown us how vulnerable we are to the vulnerability of our health, the vulnerability of the way we organized livestock farming and the vulnerability of our nature, and also how small our nature is. Because we all went into mass nature, the same nature that the judge had said we didn't protect her well. Our nature is one of the worst in Europe. The intensive livestock farming was once again affected by an animal disease, one that can also pass to humans, a zoonoses. It can go hard with a zoonosis with an intensive animal farming, as we have it. That's what we saw in the minks. Our health. Corona struck harder, more powerful and deadlier in the vicinity of intensive livestock farming. D66 wants to move from a vulnerable society to a robust society, in which farmers, our health and nature can take a hit. But how can we achieve a robust society if we still want and have to do so much? We want to build a million homes, every party here. We want a sustainable economy. We need to restore nature and biodiversity, and we need to achieve the climate targets. The Ministry of LNV plays a crucial role here. Because if we're not going to protect nature and not improve biodiversity, you can put that sustainable economy and these homes on your mind. The key to the future of the Netherlands is therefore in the hands of the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. That is why it is so important that we not only produce vistas, but that we make choices. We must not only have a vision of plant protection, but specifically prohibit the use of preservatives in the Netherlands, when it comes to flat spraying, yellow spraying, of the meadows. Not only a vision, but also a concrete plan. Not only a vision of manure, but also define what that ground bondage means. Not only a vision of circular agriculture, but also leading the change. This minister has the key, but he doesn't turn around. Nature is still on its way, farmers still have no clarity and construction companies fire people when we want to build a million homes. It is time for clarity, courage and decisiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u216	I have a very short question. I was wondering in that list of 'not only this, but also that' in 'not only a vision of circular agriculture' we hear 'but then we also end these free trade agreements'? Because that is what this minister has fought for, and the Christian Union, say 'no' to Mercosur. This is also part of a circular farming plan, that we stop doing so and stop unfair competition from countries where farmers are allowed to produce under European standards in order to better protect our own farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u217	No, on the contrary. At Mercosur, Brazil stayed on board because the French President Macron demanded that Brazil also comply with the climate targets. That's not a small beer. We have entered into a trade agreement with Canada, a friendly, civilized country. Are these trade agreements perfect? No, but D66 does have an open view of the world, because in the end only by working together and trading with one another can we achieve a peaceful world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u218	But then D66 will be finished right away. That just can't happen. The climate agreement was already the norm. So you're not going to say: through a trade agreement, Brazil is going to promise that they're going to do their best. That doesn't help at all. Human rights are being violated there and the Amazon is being hijacked there for the sale of cattle feed and cheap beef to Europe. So that's not fair. It doesn't help nature. This is precisely one of those views that Mr De Groot just said: you should not just outline ambitions for climate and nature, you should do concrete things. This is one of the concrete things nature can expect from the farmers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u219	You see in America and in part in Europe what will happen when you stand with your back to the world. That's not pretty. That is not the world in which we trade with each other. Is it a perfect world? No. At the same time, D66 has also made proposals to look at the purchasing behaviour of, for example, supermarkets here. You must avoid buying products that do not meet European standards. Moreover, there is no mention of these conventions, because they recognise European standards. You often raise the standards there for those companies that want to export. The Party for Animals conducts this discussion as well as other discussions: very black and white. It is not a perfect instrument, but it is incredibly important in this unstable world to at least be talking to each other, about climate, about higher animal welfare standards, so that we can make them a little better with each other, in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u220	Very good. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u221	I would appreciate it if Mr De Groot, in his turn on circular agriculture, did not want to do what is necessary to protect Dutch farmers from unfair competition, at least kept to the facts. It is simply not true that products are produced in Brazil and Canada under the same standards as European farmers must comply with and to which Dutch farmers must comply. It's just not true! It is a question of food safety: how much salmonella can be on it before it can be imported into Europe? It doesn't say anything about the standards. Don't lie about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u222	I'm really out of line with words like this. There is no treaty with Brazil at all. The Party for Animals is making a fairy tale. One treaty has been concluded, and that is with Canada. That is a civilized country, very worth trading with. Moreover, Dutch agriculture also benefits from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u223	My question is about something else. Mr De Groot's introduction and mine were somewhat similar in some respects. Beautiful views, but we think that it is a bit lacking in practice, implementation, impact. Where it is different, Mr De Groot says that the Minister should have done it, and that I said that the Minister could not do it, because she had no political space in the coalition for it. I would like to ask Mr De Groot whether he does not think that my vision is closer to the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u224	No, absolutely not. This country is divided. Whatever coalition you will have in this country, it will be a coalition composed of different parties, with different views on this issue. So as a minister, you have no choice but to say: you are divided, this is my job, this is my proposal, and I seek support. You can't wait in this country for the support to be there, because then you can wait until you weigh an ounce. That's exactly why it's been 30 years keeping daddies and wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u225	Support in the country is very useful, but I do not think that is so relevant here. It's about support in this Chamber. If in one coalition groups say 'we want to go that way' and other groups say 'we want to go that way', then don't look weird when the result ends right in the middle and so not so much has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u226	Then it is up to the Minister to say: this is what I am hired for; it is now my job to help agriculture step by step according to the government agreement and the circular agriculture note. For the farmer, because that clarity is what farmers want in particular. Then you can find all sorts of things, but then you'll have something to talk about. If you as a minister think that your job is to keep things together and that's all, that's not the right job idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u227	I did not say that this was the Minister's view of the task. Those are the words of Mr De Groot. I do think that, as a Chamber, if you say you're not satisfied with something, it should have consequences. Then I don't mean any human consequences and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You do yell in a newspaper every once in a while: "This is our revolutionary vision: half the livestock out!" But in the meantime, when it comes to voting, you don't see a lot of difference between the partners in practice. At the end of the day, we are still not getting anywhere with that. Then the consequence is after four years, that we have still barely made any progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u228	The beauty of joining a coalition is that you do two things. You look where the room is to take steps. In this respect, the Minister has managed to do a number of things. We're going to double the nature budget. We're going to spend 2 billion on fewer animals. There will be money for circular agriculture. There are a number of visions. Yes, they are not practical, but a number of steps have indeed been taken under the heading that livestock farming and agriculture which we know in the Netherlands are no longer sustainable. Is it enough for D66? No. It is clear that we have this ambition and we are expressing it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u229	I agree with Mr Futselaar's analysis that the coalition has operated very paralyzed. As a result, the vision of circular agriculture, on which everyone agrees conceptually, has become a bit of paper, toothless tiger. It has become not so much a dot on the horizon, but rather a kind of mirage in the distance. My question is this. When you're talking about major system changes, don't you have to build a support structure to really design that? Because sometimes that just doesn't work within the political domain. I would like to mention a number of examples: the pension debate, the Health Insurance Act in 2006 and the Climate Agreement. We have simply designed aid structures to achieve a coherent implementation programme, especially in the context of the Climate Agreement. Does Mr De Groot share my view that there may be a need for an aid structure here in order to give real shape to the vision of circular agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u230	There are two elements in that. Mr Moorlag started with a reflection on the spot on the horizon. I have to admit to this minister that she has had an incredible amount of work and is still cleaning up the mess of two Secretary of State of PvdA House for this. I would like to make that very clear. You asked if we shouldn't have a backup structure. Mr Moorlag came to the Chamber three or three and a half years ago with that idea. That's actually kind of an idea looking for a problem. But I have to say, I'm thinking about it and I'm thinking about it for this. I do not know if the Climate Agreement is the best example. There too you have an agreement with support, but what about the implementation? Should we go to more checks-and-balances where the judge also plays a major role? After all, we have seen that the judge in the Netherlands plays a very important role in keeping the government with its own laws. That is what I would like to say to another government party. It is important that the government abides by its own laws, but you can imagine that there are aid structures that can help to get support. But I would like to say once again to Mr Futselaar that it is a question of getting support for their own proposals and not seeking support for them. 'Cause then we're gonna be poking and we're gonna go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u231	I welcome the nuanced second part of Mr De Groot's reply. The first part was somewhat unsophisticated by pointing a finger at the PvdA after so many years. I believe that this coalition has now assumed long enough responsibility to feel itself responsible for agricultural policy as it currently works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u232	I thought Mr De Groot's introduction was a little bleak, so I got the feeling that I needed to help him out. When I look back at three years of coalition participation and three years of cabinet, I think: there is a vision of circular agriculture, there is manure policy and there is new plant protection policy. I also believe that there is 3 billion for investments in nature and a buy-back fund for farmers who choose to quit, giving other farmers the opportunity to expand. How does Mr De Groot look at all these elements and all those things that have been achieved in this coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u233	This is a fair question from Mr Dik-Faber. Sometimes, when you look back, you see that things did happen. That's right. There was also a lot of overdue maintenance to be done. That's right. However, I think that we could have really made those choices on a number of issues, for example in the case of manure policy. The Wijffels Committee said in 2001 that you have to distinguish between land-based and non-ground-based. That was nineteen years ago. I therefore believe that the Minister could have made more use of this period on a number of points. But you're right: if you look back, a lot has happened. But again, that's on paper. So we will have to be very precise on the implementation, because we are not going to save farmers on paper alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u234	D66 points to the minister, but I just want to take a look back at the last four years. Then I note that with this coalition with D66 new steps have been taken, that a new dot has indeed been put on the horizon. You can't expect a Mansholt era of decades to turn into four years? So I would like to say to Mr De Groot: count your blessings, rather than sit down and gloat and play the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u235	Yes and no. Steps have been taken, but not at all enough to start restoring nature and certainly not enough towards agricultural families. Because the uncertainty is, of course, very great. This uncertainty is accompanied by a loss of confidence in the government. This uncertainty is accompanied by a need for clarity. That is what is still lacking in many areas. Then you will not only have to present a view but also have to say: this is ground bound and this is not ground bound. 'Cause otherwise nothing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u236	Finally. If you want security and peace in the sector, you should not call out from the newspaper that the sector should halve the number of animals. 'Cause then there's definitely never gonna be that peace of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u237	It is the task of politics to name matters that have been left on their course for too long. The Netherlands is a very small country, a stamp, with a huge number of animals. The Netherlands is a country with farmers who stand to the lips of the water. Then you have to name it. With all due respect, but in a number of contributions so far, a little bit is turned around. There are wonderful things being said, but the point is that we, as politicians, have the task of saying what we want. That's not always a pleasant truth, you don't get applause for that, but it's necessary. Ultimately, that honesty precedes the restoration of trust in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u238	To be honest, I am a little surprised at Mr De Groot's contribution. Everything will be placed on the Minister's plate. Of course, I will be expressing my disappointment here and there. A concept of circular agriculture has been presented, which is supported by the coalition. Then it becomes deafeningly silent. Is it not primarily up to the coalition to further develop in-house what is extensive agriculture and where there is more intensive agriculture? But the coalition didn't deliver either. Is Mr De Groot prepared to put his hand in his own bosom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u239	D66 has not been the case to the extent that we have made enough proposals. We have also made a number of proposals today. We have made proposals in the field of animal welfare, the Nature Note, and we have tabled numerous motions, some of which have also been supported by the Chamber, with proposals to the Minister to take steps in the area of circular agriculture. D66 is a party of ideas and proposals. Some work and some are unfortunately not executed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u240	I'm surprised again. As if D66 isn't actually part of the coalition to work out such a plan together. The concept of cycle is very broad embraced. Has it then been powerless of D66 or perhaps I have to say: has it been powerless of the coalition to continue supporting the minister so that steps could be taken? Just a little motion on animal welfare or just a bite in the ass, that's no good. The strength of circular agriculture was precisely that it was a dot on the horizon, a vision. But the road to it didn't pave the coalition. In this respect, I would seriously suggest to D66 that instead of giving everyone a slap to the ears, the farmers who do not understand it and the minister who did not do it, he should also put his own hands into his own bosom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u241	I didn't say anything about farmers not getting it. Farmers understand very well what is going on here. When I stand in front of a room of farmers and tell them what this circular farming means, and when I say 'you know that something must happen, that something is going on', there is a silence. And then there is always a farmer who says: yes, say it; give the clarity. D66 is clear. You can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u242	I don't have an interruption. I have a point of order. You are going to say again that that is not a point of order, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u243	It's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u244	No, but it's said, "a little motion." That is one of the most powerful means we have as Members of Parliament. I'm not okay with that. There's a lot of kids listening. We shouldn't do that. I'm not okay with that. And I didn't expect that from a man's brother, because they're usually very bad for the resources that MPs have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u245	I'm a little disappointed in him, too, from a constitutional point of view. Mea culpa, says Mr Bishop. That is recorded here for eternity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u246	The Minister can also clearly state what she has done in her first term. What Mr De Groot is putting here is also a piece of misconception. But that's not what my question is about. My question concerns the following. When Mr De Groot talked about corona and air quality, I was thinking about it. Epidemiologists strongly criticize the quick conclusion that has been drawn. It is much more complex and nuanced than Mr De Groot's description. I have a quote from Professor of Veterinary Medicine Arjan Stegeman of Utrecht University from our all professional journal de Boerderij. I would ask Mr De Groot to reflect on that. The quote reads as follows: "For the well-known pandemics, intensive livestock farming is not responsible." Can you reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u247	Yeah, I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u248	If he agrees, then it is very strange what Mr De Groot just said in his speech on corona and air quality. Mr De Groot's conclusion is that pig farming, poultry farming, calf farming and everything that is intensive, in the terms of the Chamber, should leave the Netherlands. If Mr De Groot agrees with this quote, how does he arrive at the position he has taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u249	There's one step in the right direction. The intensity that we have in the Netherlands, with 100 million chickens and 12 million pigs, makes that if a virus is introduced into an intensive system, it is the Netherlands which then increases and mutates. We've seen with the minks how fast it can go. That's what we see in bird flu. In wild birds there is a low pathogenic variant. Because it is introduced into intensive poultry farming, it becomes highly pathogenic. Then he comes back into nature and birds fall out of the sky. So there is indeed a risk of keeping animals with this intensity. Then the link to corona. So far, this has only been a connection. If you live near livestock farms, in the Peel, you'll be hit more deadly and more powerfully by corona; that's just proven. Exactly how this is done must be demonstrated. But look at the reduced lung function people have in that environment. Corona's getting on your lungs. So once you get hit by corona, you'll see it goes deadlier and harder. That's the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u250	I think that Mr De Groot should take another lesson from an epidemiologist. But what I really want to go to is that this cabinet has looked ahead, also around this thing. I had a discussion on this with the Minister in general. At that time I also indicated that a number of signals may not be picked up, for whatever reason. The minister's watching that. During the weekend I saw a letter of progress which I think was unfortunately about the fact that there was also a need to remove mints in Putten. There was a fine paragraph in which the Minister indicated that she would look forward and look more broadly at what is needed to prevent zoonoses in the future as much as possible. So this cabinet has already anticipated what you just indicated. Then what else is needed in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u251	Then Mr Geurts contradicts himself. On the one hand, he says that there is no link between zoonoses and corona at all, and on the other hand, the cabinet considers the OMT-Z to be serious enough to look at it. Now I can't quite follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u252	I've indicated that it's more complex and nuanced. Mr De Groot probably hasn't heard that, because he's making direct connections and he's right to say that whole animal categories have to leave the Netherlands. Then he finds himself in front of me, because I just don't agree with that conclusion. What I tried to indicate, but apparently Mr De Groot is not listening to either, is that the cabinet does not close its eyes. Even the CDA does not close its eyes, I say to a number of colleagues who sometimes think so, but they are being considered. What do all the suspicions that Mr De Groot is doing and what he says here add?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u253	There's a statistical correlation. That means you can't tell how it works yet. We need more research on that. However, as early as 2001, the Wijffels Committee said that livestock farming had exceeded the limit of acceptable and permissible health, animal welfare and the environment. Corona just added an extra reason. This branch of sport has no future in the Netherlands. No future! The farming families that are in it are having a hard time. They have the choice between either doing a niche or continuing in industrialization. They can't make that choice and they're stuck. D66 is a party that says: then we have to come up with a plan. We have to deal with this unrest in the peasant families. We have to help them. Corona and zoonoses are additional reasons to be critical of intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u254	Finalizing, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u255	Both can't be true. Mr De Groot gives the quote: for the well-known pandemics, intensive livestock farming is not responsible. If that's true, the other story he's keeping here isn't true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u256	It's not about transferring corona from a chicken den. No, the point is that the people who live there in the area suffer from that chicken den in all kinds of ways, including in their health. It's just written in black and white. I know the CDA's gonna attack the organization once in a while if the facts don't work out. But that's it. There is an indirect effect of this intensive livestock farming on the extent to which corona strikes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u257	I don't really know where to start. 'Cause I hear so much. I hear that a sector can simply be expelled, because it has no added value and no perspective. I will leave those words to Mr De Groot. I don't even want to take it seriously. I would like to say the following to you, Mr President. I think that is very serious from the VVD public health, animal welfare and, above all, animal health. Please, let's stick to the facts. I hear a lot of nonsense and assumptions coming forward here. Those aren't mine. I am not going to debate this, because I really don't know where to start. This really matters too much to me to talk about this in this way. We know many people who have unfortunately died of corona. Also, people are still sick at the hospital right now. In order to have the debate in this way, Mr President, I am fit for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u258	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u259	Well, I'd like to respond to this a little bit. There is no denying that Corona has struck harder in the vicinity of intensive livestock farms. There is no denying that intensive livestock farming has been a problem for 30 years. It's just that things have changed now. The Netherlands is now trapped in such a way that it is no longer in a position to do so. If the VVD keeps pretending to be okay, we can't find any solutions. In the end, the VVD is responsible for keeping this whole country locked and for abandoning the farming families. Mr. Chairman. Corona has shown us how vulnerable we are. D66 has thought about solutions, as you are used to us. Corona is a zoonoses and I want to make four proposals to make our society more robust. An action plan has been given to the messengers, which can be distributed. Firstly, the illegal trade in wild animals is an important cause of zoonoses. The other day we saw at a reptile fair that desert foxes were piled up on bats. And the minister couldn't intervene, because you can keep those animals and therefore trade them. That's why it's good to know which animals you do and which ones you can't keep. Mr Graus also mentioned this: a positive list. D66 proposes a positive list for reptiles, birds and amphibians. How does the Minister view this? How does it view the proposal to work on a positive list at European level? Second. Hairdressing of forests brings animals more into contact with humans. Last year, a motion was adopted by our group chairman, Rob Jetten, who advocated a commitment to a Paris for nature at the UN summit in Kunming, China, spring 2021. Is the Minister prepared to include wildlife trade on the agenda? Third. The biggest threat to the habitat of animals is large-scale logging for soya, wood and palm oil. D66 therefore calls for a European ban on imports of non-sustainable soya, wood and palm oil. And I'll add coffee and cocoa. Is the Minister going to be tough on this in Europe, together with her colleague Kaag? Fourthly, we just had a discussion about it. The way in which we hold massive animals in the Netherlands is vulnerable and no longer sustainable. The Netherlands is a stamp with far too many animals. Q fever in goats, corona in mink and avian flu are caused by keeping too many animals on too small a surface. Almost one in five coronadods is due to poor air quality in general. In the vicinity of livestock farms Corona struck harder and more deadly. People living in goat farms are 60% more likely to have pneumonia. The explanation is probably, and that needs to be examined, in fine dust. As I said, in 2001, the Wijffels Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Animal Welfare proved flawlessly why intensive livestock farming is no longer sustainable for the environment, our health and animal welfare. Wijffels said that, in the eyes of society, livestock farming has exceeded the limits of the acceptable and acceptable. We've been 19 years, but we haven't got a clue. Not only is the transition to circular agriculture necessary for farmers who want to move on, D66 also advocates a phasing-out plan for intensive livestock farming. Is the Minister prepared to consider this with a view to the next formation? There is no coalition possible without this subject being discussed. Then let's talk briefly about the investigation. The RIVM works only command-driven. There is little room for self-initiative for necessary investigations. Is the Minister prepared to give RIVM sufficient free means to do so, so space in which the RIVM itself decides what it investigates? Before I go on about nature, a short intermezzo about zoos. Breeding programmes of endangered species are at risk. D66 has tabled a motion for this. How are we doing on this? Then nature. This cabinet has set aside EUR 350 million for nature. D66 has tabled a motion calling for ordinary nature to be kept. It serves to prevent the sparrow and squirrel, pike and carp from becoming rare. The Minister referred to this in her nitrogen plans. Does this actually mean that EUR 5 million out of the EUR 350 million will actually be used for pilots on basic quality, as the PBL indicates in the quickscan of nature measures? Then the national parks, our pride, in the Netherlands and overseas. There is now a plan to save the coral, but its time horizon is ten years. But then the coral's gone. If the minister really wants to save the coral, we need more money and more action. Moreover, the national parks in our overseas territories had a loss of 2 million euros from corona. Is the Minister willing to close this hole? Is the Minister prepared to fight harder for the coral? And then closer to home. The Minister has taken a nice step in the area of national parks here in the Netherlands. They've been working with a lot of energy. We've made plans. And Corona also really shows that this is badly needed, because the nature reserves and the national parks were overcrowded. But there is a financial gap between the plans submitted and what budget is available. Is the Minister willing to share D66's thoughts on how to close this hole? Mr President, I will conclude. Corona has shown us how fragile our health, our livestock farming and our nature are. D66 wants to move from a vulnerable society to a robust society, where our health, nature and farmers can take a hit. And then we want to build a sustainable economy and a million houses. We can only do this if we improve the protection of nature and meet our climate goals. And that simply doesn't work with livestock farming as it is now. That's why we need to start thinking about phasing out. The Minister of LNV has the key to this society, to this future, but then we have to turn it around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u260	Thank you. Another question from Mrs Bromet. Short and pointy, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u261	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This reduction in livestock farming, in what year has it been reduced to what percentage in the eyes of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u262	Well, we ourselves do not have a phasing-out plan, but at least it stems from the vision of circular agriculture. So you're gonna have to take a look at that. Not every farmer, not every farmer's family can and will come along, so you have to deal with the farmer in a social way that can't go on. That also helps with the unrest. And you're gonna need a phasing-out plan for that, so it's connected. It's actually the back of the vision, so to speak. That is no longer the case for this cabinet, but the plan itself will really have to play a role in the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u263	Is that the voluntary arrangement as it now stands in the nitrogen plans of the cabinet and of your coalition, or is that something more compelling?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u264	Voluntary is the fastest way for those farmers who want to quit. I wouldn't want to go by the farmers with a van, as GroenLinks suggests, to tell them: you're gonna stop and you're gonna stop. Let us start with the farmers who want to stop themselves, who are in need, in whom the water is to the lips. He wants to help D66 in the first place, and then we're a long way away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u265	Something's being put in my mouth that I'm not saying, so I'm gonna stand back from that. I would simply like to express the great words used by Mr De Groot. Indeed, he said in the newspaper that we should halve the livestock, but we do not know when that is going to happen or how it is going to happen, and I would very much like to know that. And I understand that Mr De Groot isn't saying that right now because he's trapped in a coalition. But tell us what you want to do after the election and we will know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u266	Well, that's in our election program. I highly recommend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u267	Very good. Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u268	Thank you, Mr President. During the last cabinet formation, the Ministry of LNV was re-established. And that was seen as a victory, especially in CDA circles and VVD circles: a Ministry of Agriculture, it was on the map again! But if we now, after more than three years, take stock and see how the policy domain that LNV stands for... Agriculture: great unrest, great polarization. Part of the electorate of the CDA and also of the VVD runs away to more populist groups. Agriculture is in crisis. Several farmers are rightly concerned about their right to exist, about their earning model, whether there is a future in this country. When we look at the state of nature: it has not improved in recent years, it has deteriorated. I heard Mrs Dik-Faber say: there have been billions added. But I myself have the impression that this is not so much thanks to the coalition, but that it is mainly thanks to the Council of State, because the Council of State has very strongly indicated the limits of the environmental area that activity, including agricultural activity, may have in the Netherlands to the maximum. And when we look at food quality, it doesn't really look good with that either. When we look at the state of health, there is a very strange paradox. There is a plethora of good and healthy food and yet we see that welfare diseases are increasing. The PvdA wonders: can we not achieve a better optimum with all the money we spend on our food? We're actually paying four times for our food right now. We're not just paying in the store. The prices in the food shop in the Netherlands are among the lowest European level we can find in Europe. We also pay through taxes, for example for plating heath fields or for that nature reserve that Mr.Von Martels wants to recalibrate. We also pay through taxes for the CAP. That peasant money is not a manna that falls from heaven free of charge. We also pay the bill through our environmental taxes. Waterboard charges are increasing due to water treatment problems. Finally, we pay for our food for the fourth time through health insurance. The increase in welfare diseases leads to serious health damage in society. These welfare diseases simply cause higher healthcare costs. The question the PvdA is facing is: can we not achieve a better optimum with all the money we spend? Can we not create a system, which is my question to the Minister of Agriculture, in which farmers are placed in a better economic model, in which incentives are not aimed at maximizing production, in which they receive a decent reward for their work and in which they do not have to start to produce more capital intensively? We see that farmers often have low working income and can only start cashing at the end of their careers because phosphate rights can be sold because land prices have increased because animal rights can be sold. That is not a healthy business model; that is a pyramid game. That's just not sustainable. Mr. Chairman. Can we not achieve a better quality of nature for our money by structurally balancing the agricultural sector with the space that provides the environment and nature? Can we bring food quality and therefore health conditions in the Netherlands to a higher level? We talked about a dot on the horizon. Mr Futselaar saw a whole series of dots on the horizon. The question is, how do we get there? Conceptually everyone embraces the principle of circular agriculture, but to my liking this requires a coherent and long-term programme. You're not gonna make it in the Ministry alone. I think that D66 says too easily: that is the responsibility of the Minister. It is a responsibility of all parties in the chain. It's high time all those parties came out of their shooter pits. Nature and environmental organisations, farmers' organisations, but also the food industry and the retail industry must sit together at the table to work on a coherent, long-term programme. Three years ago, at my first budget debate, I proposed a broad agreement on agriculture, nature and food, following the climate agreement. That's where the process was applied. That's where the polarization has decreased. That's where Greenpeace, Shell and Esso sit at the table, with all the flaws and flaws in it. But there is a coherent plan. I am still in favour of that approach. My question to the Minister is very specific as to whether, in the run-up to the elections, to the formation, she would like to send a scout out to see if all these actors are prepared to reach a long-term agricultural, nature and food agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u269	The last thing, the agricultural agreement, was taken from my heart. We wholeheartedly support that. All the players in this will have to sit around the table. What surprises me is Mr Moorlag's approach to circular agriculture. It's gonna take its time. I remember the discussions on circular agriculture. Then it was often as if it still had to be realized in this Chamber period, while it will take a generation to make that change. You will also find that awareness in the sector itself. But I am actually surprised at the first point I was referring to, the intensification of agriculture. Does Mr Moorlag realise that the intensification of agriculture entails enormous costs, both for business and for consumers? It's about labor intensity. It is about the higher cost, which must therefore be passed on to the consumer. Would Mr Moorlag reflect on what these factors mean in his visionary approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u270	Not everything needs to be more extensive. That sounds paradoxical, but in some places it is possible to intensify and take account of space and the environment and nature. Mr Weverling mentioned an example of this: greenhouse horticulture. There we see that with much less emissions, much less fertilizers and much less water, food is produced very much and very good. It is no longer the quality of the "washer bombe." It's really good nutrition, but there's something wrong with our system. It is quite wrong, to my taste, that you pay more for a kilo of apples than for a kilo of fricandells, while everyone here in this room knows that the kilo of fricandells has a much larger ecological footprint. It also means that we have to do 'true pricing' for parts of our food; we have to start paying the real price. I myself live near the grain republic. You don't have to turn that into one big biological area. You shouldn't put trees there. In that area trees are considered weeds. That's where you have to respect the grandeur. I am not arguing for an Ot-and-Sien-like agriculture and for going back to the old days, when everything would be better. I'm not arguing for that. But I do plead for a system jump.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u271	We share that, and I therefore find it regrettable that during this cabinet period there has not been a follow-up to the further development of circular agriculture. There are beautiful contours, but the path to it is a long path. It'll take a generation. Let us just look each other in the eye and let us also be clear and clear to the sector. What matters to me is that this path will lead to an increase in costs. Cost increase in production and thus also cost increase for consumers. Is Mr Moorlag prepared to say that that is the price that will have to be paid, unless we open up all the markets to foreign imports and all the stuff that can come from there, but do not have the quality we want in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u272	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u273	Two points. That it's a long year: yes. That is the case with the Climate Agreement. That's a program that runs until 2050. But it's gonna have to be planned. A long-term objective should not mean that you will not do anything for the first ten years and say: after those ten years we will get to work. Well, that's not it. The second is that these cost increases are also subject to huge cost savings. I call it plaguing heaths. Just think about the water levels. That's a figure of 80 billion. This is not only because of agriculture, but also because we keep our water levels at this level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u274	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u275	Look at our care expenses. Better food leads to lower healthcare costs. The proposal recently presented by Mr Winsemius on meadow birds shows that there are business models in which costs and benefits can simply be balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u276	I would just like to briefly ask the Labour Party to really think again about this idea that you are going to solve these problems and this transition with an agreement. As a Chamber, we had a round table discussion on the biodiversity crisis. There's a plan. Everyone sits there at the table and it leads to a few herb garden projects, but not to the cover. Mr Moorlag rightly says to D66: you should not just throw it over the fence with the Minister. We have to make those choices here. You cannot put nature interests at the table with the cattle feed industry, which simply has very different interests. Get away from the idea of that agreement. We must take the decisions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u277	I think we can do it. If Greenpeace, Shell and Esso manage to get to one table, no matter how difficult it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u278	Greenpeace got out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u279	Yes, but the other environmental and nature organisations are in it and Greenpeace is still involved. I really believe in that. I really don't know any other way. The way things have been for the past 30, 40 years, it just hasn't gone well. It's stagnating. We really need a breakthrough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u280	Rounding, short and pointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u281	But this way of thinking just doesn't add up. Nature and environmental organisations are civil society organisations which represent a public interest. And here we must protect the public interest against individual short-term economic interests. Then you can't say: well, then the nature movement puts a little water in the wine and then the cattle feed industry puts a little water in the wine and then it's solved. That's not how it works. They are unequal interests and we must protect public interests here, even if it is nature and not social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u282	I agree. You cannot throw the whole issue over the fence and say: solve it. That is what happened with the Climate Agreement. There we have simply set clear targets: so much reduction by 2050 and an intermediate target by 2030. That's just what we said. You're gonna have to put down corner flags. Otherwise, too little is going to happen. Otherwise, it's exporting problems instead of solving problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u283	You continue and round off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u284	Mr. Chairman. A plan for the meadow birds has been presented. The grutto is really seen as an iconic type of guide. We got the salmon back in the Rhine. Can we get the grutto stand back on track? Does the Minister really want to look at that plan? Does she want to consult with the initiators to see if the model, including the earning model, that is underneath it can be worked out in a good way? This is an example of a truly coherent approach, using all the indirect costs that are incurred in society to finance the elaboration of the plan. Mr. Chairman. I'm very concerned about the NVWA. Mr Futselaar also said that two thirds of the supervisory and enforcement tasks cannot be properly carried out. A whole load of staff will have to be added, Deloitte has calculated. The question is whether that is feasible. I asked the Minister earlier whether we should not look at the system level rather than at the level of measures or organisation. My question to the Minister is: will she ask someone of the calibre of Winnie Sorgdrager or Herman Tjeenk Willink to really look at how we can improve the system of supervision and enforcement? That's really necessary. The State's Attorney's Office is complaining. It is also said that there is too little supervisory pressure. That leads to... I see the chairman is laughing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u285	You ask for someone of stature and everyone starts pointing straight at each other. You want to recite people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u286	That took place outside my field of vision, but I suffer from a lazy eye. I'll look at the right side with my slightly less lazy eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u287	There's someone there already: Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u288	I would like to say that I am not here to apply, but I am listening with interest to Mr Moorlag's question. I think it is very good to look at this NVWA, because if there is one topic that we have talked about a lot in recent years, then it is the NVWA. I'm flying the subject in a slightly different way. Mr Futselaar does it his way, but in the end we can come to the conclusion that there are really serious concerns. It's not for nothing that you call the D.A.'s office complaining about stone and bone. In recent years, I have also noticed that, in the previous period, I have experience with the NVWA company that there is no outside view. It's all being brought in. If we are talking about a laboratory, it can only be one and above all we should not have too much effect in practice, so not too much involvement from other laboratories. Is Mr Moorlag prepared to look a little further than really just at that organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u289	Yeah, that's what I'm passionately arguing for. I also see other systems with much more self-control. I myself was the director of a company where we worked with cleanrooms. That's where medical supplies had to be packed. Well, every year there were solid audits. If you didn't have your certificate, you just lost your license to do that job. Why can't we use that in parts of the agricultural sector? It doesn't have to be small farmers, but it does with large farms. They must really be certified. There should simply be incentives to deliver quality without the regulator being on every corner. Conceptually, I think you can really make it. That is why I am also in favour of looking at the system level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u290	Then I await with particular interest Mr Moorlag's second-term proposal. At least I assume he will come forward with a concrete proposal, for example in a motion. Maybe we could take a look at that together. Once again, it is important for us that we dare to see what tasks it is necessary to carry out. They do not necessarily have to be with the NVWA if you can do it with other organisations with such an audit, as Mr Moorlag just outlined very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u291	I'd be happy to continue that conversation. My question to the Minister at the moment is no more than to set up someone who is able to look at monitoring and enforcement at system level. Mr. Chairman. National parks have been on the table for a while. A plan has been presented, Mr. Pieter van Vollenhoven has done so to designate five world-class national parks. The Dutch landscape and nature are close to my heart. The US President, who is still in office, is now taking a very close look at the right side of the road, has ensured that the national parks are regarded as national pride and that they have been brought to a higher level. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to talk to the initiators of that plan to see if we can bring some national parks to a next level. Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of major issues on the agenda, but now a very small closing topic: a red deer in Drenthe. That's an enterprising and pioneering beast. That animal is in danger of being shot because he is not in the right place. If we want to destroy the support base for nature policy, we should certainly do so. That beast has been walking there for two years and isn't a burden to anyone. Okay, there's a theoretical risk to traffic. Will the Minister make every effort to prevent that pioneering animal from being shot? That concludes me, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u292	Thank you. Buba, the red deer and the gruttos: these are a bit of the highlights of tonight. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Today, however, many different qualifications have been given to the cabinet and cabinet policy. What is clear is that this cabinet period marks the beginning of much of the necessary changes and that this minister has put in place many necessary changes. I am thinking of circular agriculture with a conversion programme of 175 million and a policy of manure, lease and plant protection. I am also thinking of the stronger position of farmers in the chain through the bill on sustainability initiatives, and more and better nature. As far as my group is concerned, this is the most significant cabinet period in decades for agriculture and the future for agriculture. All these changes should ultimately contribute to a perspective for farmers and fishermen, but also for nature. Hopefully, the Netherlands will receive considerable support from the European agricultural policy. We would have liked to raise the bar for greening. That was also the commitment of the Netherlands, of this minister. But in the meantime, we can see that there are many places in the country where the change is taking place. There's no stopping that cover anymore. I am convinced that a sustainable agriculture is only possible if we base our way of life and our economy on the opportunities that nature offers and on the forces and gifts that are laid down in creation. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we all want circular agriculture to be a success, but then the earning model of circular agriculture must be sufficient and give confidence. I realize that's not easy. The long chain is super-efficiently organized in the Netherlands. Look at that as a farmer with a short chain to intervene. In this last LNV budget treatment for me, I would therefore like to make a firm effort, together with Mr Geurts, to get more short chains off the ground, for a good earning model for the farmer but also for greater appreciation for the food of the citizen. A wonderful initiative is being kicked out of the ground in the region of Eemland, Betuwe and Flevopolder, with the consumer brand Amersfoort. From the meadows above Amersfoort, from the fields in the Flevopolder and from the orchards of the Betuwe can be a delicious and complete food package that can be delivered directly to consumers and that can be a full alternative to the shopping basket at the biggrutter, at a fair price and with a good earning model for the farmer. That is the purpose of this initiative. The initiators call it the Mansholt campus, but my plea today would be to turn this initiative into the Schoutencampus. After all, good farmers cannot farm alone. Mr. Chairman. It is this minister's mission to turn our agriculture around. And although that mission has been surrounded by nitrogen clouds for a year and a half, it has not diminished. On the contrary, I would like to say. That is why I am calling today for the mission to continue supporting regional food strategies. Then I come to my next topic, the multifunctional agriculture. I've seen it grow like cabbage. Where you used to have a side branch to turn black figures, there is now a full range of rural shops, care, childcare and tourism at the farm. Over the past year, turnover has doubled. Recently, research by Wageningen University in collaboration with Agrio publishers revealed that half of farmers combine agricultural production with other services. The impact of multifunctional agriculture on our rural economy is, in short, considerable. Now, agricultural entrepreneurs are very keen to see more detailed follow-up studies being carried out, identifying the obstacles that the sector faces in order to further develop multifunctional agriculture. For example, in some provinces farm shops are discouraged while a solar farm is no problem at all. Anyway, that's another discussion. Let us not discuss the solar fields in this committee. My question is whether the Platform Multifunctional Agriculture, which was established after my own initiative paper on linking farmers and citizens and a motion, including my own, can contribute to this in-depth investigation. Can this platform help farmers who want to broaden, move forward? Mr. Chairman. Another cup is the viability of the countryside. The countryside is beautiful, we all enjoy it, but it is also under enormous pressure. Every week there are a lot of farmers who stop. They need to be helped much faster than they are now to demolish or redeploy vacant agricultural buildings. This is necessary to prevent the degradation of the countryside. Would the Minister like to discuss this with municipalities and farmers' organisations, in order to arrive at a joint action plan or attack plan, give it a name, at least to come up with solutions? Then there is a subject that is dear to me and to which I referred in the introductory debate with Mr Weverling: food waste. It's been a long time since I've been caught skipping by the police. You can see it all on film on YouTube. Meanwhile, there is a broad approach to combating food waste and the trend is positive. Food banks also notice this; they get less supply from the food industry while the corona crisis increases the demand for food from food banks. It is a good thing that the Minister and her colleague for Social Affairs are now going to use money from Europe that would otherwise be unused to supply food banks. Unfortunately, a lot of food is still being wasted because of cosmetic requirements. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my written questions. She has also indicated that the school fruit scheme is being adapted, which also offers curved fruit and vegetables to children. We are very happy with that, because young learners are old-fashioned. Mr. Chairman. After almost 60 years it will soon be done with mancozeb, a drug used in arable farming against persistent fungal diseases. That's good news, if you realize that there are strong indications that this medicine can cause Parkinson's disease. I've had a lot of contact with neurologists about this. It is important that there is a proper lock on the door and that new resources in Europe are tested for impacts on nature, the environment and people. When it comes to assessing people's health, it is not just about diseases such as cancer, but also neurological diseases. Recently, in a general consultation, the Minister made a commitment to raise this issue in Europe. My group welcomes that. At the same time, and I realize that, the ban on mancozeb is also a setback for farmers. It is therefore a good thing that, on the one hand, the Minister uses processing techniques to use resilient crops and, on the other hand, to speed up the authorisation of organic plant protection products. How's this going? In the past, research has been done on whether organic products are not just better for people's health. Recently, there was a journalism programme that paid attention to this research. It was in the news recently. As far as my group is concerned, this research, which I believe was carried out under Gerda Verburg and with the involvement of Wageningen University and TNO, calls for a follow-up study. Is the Minister prepared to have this follow-up investigation carried out? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of trees. Trees make the Netherlands greener, healthier and more pleasant. They provide cooling and they capture a whole batch of CO. Climate mitigation and adaptation in one. We can build a tree about that. "Minister Schouten wants to plant trees, colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen wants to cut them off." That was a headline in Trouw last week. Now, of course, I do not want to get into this coalition wedding, but I want to focus on the positive part of this head, which is that the Minister of LNV has agreed with provinces to raise 10% more forest over the next ten years, in terms of 37 000 hectares, 55,000 football fields. That's a nice ambition. The goal is to get every child in primary school to plant a tree. I like that. This fits nicely with the initiative Nederland plant trees that the Evangelical Omroep launched on 18 November as part of the moved National Tree Festival Day. A million trees added, so that's their goal. I see all the good actions, but I miss the connection between the Minister's forestry strategy and the provinces on the one hand, and the concrete actions of civil society organisations to plant millions of trees, just in the backyard or in an area of State forestry, for example, on the other. How does the Minister intend to link the Forest Strategy with the actions of all these private civil society organisations? Can it confirm that the Landscape Elements Attack Plan is also part of the Forest Strategy? I see some interruptions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u294	Just keep going. You shouldn't pay attention to that. You just have to look at me. I note that without interruptions we will be outside at 10 p.m., but with interruptions it will be a lot later. Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u295	It's gonna be a little bit later, yeah. It's about trees. I see that all election programs come back, planting trees. The CDA programme also contains 17 million trees of plants. In that respect, the trees are a booming business. How are we going to take all these plans together in all these different election programmes? My question is to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u296	Our election programme has not yet been published. I hope its content will not disappoint. I honestly do not know by heart when that election programme will be published, but I suspect it will not be long. There must be some very nice words about the importance of trees in the Netherlands. I am extremely pleased that this Minister has presented a forestry strategy. I'm glad to hear that the CDA is excited about this, too. Let's just see how far we can get. If the CDA also has this in the election programme and perhaps other parties, it will probably also become part of the policy of the next cabinet, whoever is in it. Of course, we always have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u297	Very good. Then we'll all plant trees. Mr Graus is also going to set up a tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u298	I am very much in favour of Mr Madlener, who is talking about it, and I am glad to say that he is also in favour of trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u299	Yes. I know that from Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u300	That's what he's known for, the plants. Mr. Chairman, I have a question for Mrs. Dik-Faber. These words always appeal to me greatly, the creation of God. That appeals to me. Now I want to table a motion on behalf of the PVV, because I know that I am not going to get out of it with the Minister, about a ban on the killing of pet animals and farm animals by private individuals. We therefore believe that animals, farm animals and pet animals should only be killed, so it is euthanized, by a veterinarian, because it can determine whether an animal should be put out of its misery. Would Mrs Dik-Faber wish to sign or support that motion if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u301	I'm gonna think this through. I am now faced with this question. I can very well imagine that you do not do that as a private person, but that you have to be a professional, have a training course, have medication for it, etcetera, etcetera. I just need to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u302	Dogs and cats, for example, are already excluded. Of course, it still happens massively that they are killed. Certain animals can simply be bought and killed, such as fish and birds. You can just kill that one. Yes. I'm talking about pets and farm animals. I did it on purpose. I know that when it comes to pestilence and pestilence, that motion is never gonna make it. That must appeal to everyone. Mr. Futzelaar, you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u303	You're interrupting, Mr. Graus. You're going to interview the entire room now. I don't know if you have anything to say on this? It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u304	Interesting dynamics here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u305	Interesting dynamics, yes. That's what I'd suggest. You're prosecuting, I suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u306	We're gonna watch this with each other. I always appreciate the enormous involvement with the fate of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u307	He'll be getting a running microphone soon. Then he'll just stop by all the MPs. It saves time, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u308	Mr. Chairman. Let me continue with trees, but then another branch of sport, namely agroforestry. I'm really glad it got a place in the Forest Strategy. Agroforestry offers benefits in terms of climate, biodiversity, soil fertility and so on. At the same time, the Forest Strategy states that agroforestry in the Netherlands hasn't gotten off the ground so well and that we don't know much yet. There really is a gap in knowledge in this area. Our southern neighbors in Belgium have set up a consortium of governments, civil society organisations and businesses to stimulate agroforestry and also increase knowledge about it. Would the Minister consider the possibilities for this in our own country, including with the involvement of its ministry? (NL) Mr President, fisheries. The Brexit worries us deeply. It is also relevant to the fishermen. Can the Minister tell us what's going on in this file? Furthermore, there is good news from Europe that there is increasing scientific support and renewed political support for pulse trawling in terms of sustainability effects. What can the Minister do to speed this up and ensure that the pulse can be reactivated as soon as possible? Can the Minister also comment on the first results of the fisheries innovation programme? It's been started recently. For this purpose, funds were also made available for the coalition agreement. A short question about silence and darkness. I've been committed to this for years. They are core qualities of our landscape that are increasingly under pressure. Last week there was news that the quiet areas are disappearing, whereas they are so valuable to biodiversity. Would the Minister like to discuss with her colleague from BZK and provinces how we can turn the tide? Mr President, I will conclude. I have no further questions. I realize I've asked a lot of questions. I look forward to the answer. This is my last agricultural budget, yet a memorable moment. This may also apply to other colleagues here in the Chamber. I wish the Minister every success and wisdom in the months ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u309	Thank you. Then we will be joining tonight's main meal, at least expressed in minutes: the contribution of the Party for Animals, together 50 minutes. We're gonna sit extra tight for that. I call you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for responding so enthusiastically to tonight's main meal. That is, of course, because we share the view that it is better not to kill animals for that. Mr. Chairman. I do not say it very quickly, but I did agree with Mr De Groot of D66 tonight. He said the most important decisions are in the Ministry of Agriculture. In fact, Mr De Groot has imitated what the Party for Animals has been saying for a while, but let's take a positive approach to any change. Because change is in the air. There were already 20, 25, 30 years ago analyses that the current agricultural system has stalled, and that it might have been a good idea just after the Second World War to think about how to produce as much food as possible as soon as possible... a blind focus on as much............................................................................................................................................. This Minister, too, had to admit this in her circular note. I remember that conservationists and all those people who have been waiting so long for sustainable agriculture in the Netherlands were happy with that recognition. "Hey, here's recognition! The current agricultural system is unsustainable. We can't go on like this." But the disappointment was great, because this minister and this coalition did not manage to show courage. If you know, if it's in front of you that it can't go on like this, then you also know that there are only victims, including the farmers themselves. Yet they do not show the courage to make those changes that are needed. Because the system has no winners except perhaps the cattle feed industry, which has an interest in a lot of animals in the Netherlands, or the chemical industry, which wants to sell its poison, or the Rabobank, which makes a lot of profit with that policy of not interfering in the core every time but saddle farmers with rumblings in the margins. That means a technological solution every time. That sounds nice, but it's not. That's an air washer. That's a low-emission stable floor. That's a new investment for a farmer. That's taxpayers' money. That is the Rabobank or another bank that says: it is nice such an investment, but then more animals have to be added, otherwise it doesn't pay off. That's scaling up. Why didn't the Minister at this time, when she acknowledged that the system was untenable, say more often: dear people, we don't want to drive farmers away from the Netherlands; the reality is that if we don't change anything, 50 farmers stop a week? Why has the Minister not said more often how many farmers have actually stopped in the last 20 years? I've never actually heard her say that, only if the Party asked for it for the Animals. And how many animals have come down? It is not a question of "less animals are less farmers"; it is precisely not. This system forces farmers to stop. That's a huge loss. Dutch agriculture, the Dutch intensive livestock farming, costs Dutch taxpayers 6.5 billion euros a year. Those are the social costs. The sooner we show the courage to take the necessary steps to free farmers from a system that has turned against them, the sooner we will be out of these costs. Mr. Chairman. Then public health. Twice in Europe there has been an outbreak of an animal disease that has been passed on to humans in the last 20 years. That's a zoonoses. The Animal Party has been warning of this since it was founded. Twice that was in the Netherlands. That was the avian flu in 2003. Then a vet died and infected his people. And that was, of course, the Q fever. The warnings are still up-to-date. But where is the policy? Professor Ron Fouchier, the leading virologist in the Netherlands, has for so long warned for the bird flu in particular, which is now around and for which 500,000 animals have already been gassed. Euphemistically, this is called clearing, but it simply means that the stables are purified, gas is sprayed in and all animals die. The policy pursued by the Dutch cabinet is to take hygiene measures and to store all the animals on avian flu does not keep out of the door. That is the policy that is being pursued and yet animals that never come out are infected at farms. I am glad that Mr Futselaar brought that up again, but it is simply a ticking time bomb. The advice is: no poultry holdings susceptible to avian flu in areas where waterbirds are present. Where's the poultry? In Flevoland and that part of the Veluwe where there is a lot of water. I simply ask the Minister: who can we hold responsible when in the Netherlands, in the Dutch livestock sector, a zoonoses breaks out that threatens people's health, as happened in the case of Q fever? Corona is, of course, the nightmare scenario. That infectious disease, if it has been passed on to humans, is then contagious through the airways. We are warned of this, including by the IPBES, a United Nations organisation. It says that we are facing an era in which these kinds of pandemics will occur more frequently, spread faster than COVID-19, cause more deaths and cause even more damage to the economy. So that is not necessary if we are to make choices now to make the world a much safer place for animals, a safer world for animals is a safer world for people if we are to protect nature and if we are to deal with wildlife trade. Those choices need to be made now. Otherwise, we are willingly and knowingly taking a risk with public health. Mr. Chairman. The positive thing is that there's change in the air. That was already clear to Corona. More and more people opposed the way we deal with animals, against the mistake of thinking that we would need animals for our food system. That's a real mistake of thinking. It's the other way around. Animals breed and use for food means food waste. So the future is much more vegetable than the way we live now. So we can, and must, make crucial choices. And if we do, and if we dare, there will be so much room for the things that matter. Corona has shown us, if we didn't know yet, that the Netherlands not only has a decaying nature but also far too little nature. If you lived in the city and wanted to get some fresh air, you had to so to speak in polonaise through the park. There's far too little green space for the people in the cities, isn't there? And if you went to the nature reserves, it wasn't much better. Natuurmonumenten en Staatsbosbeheer even suggested making a reservation system for nature so that you could book a time lock with your yoga club and not too busy. Then you just have to choose to make more nature, don't you? This can be done if we choose the long-term solution that is needed to achieve all those goals that we need to achieve, such as restoring healthy soil. This intensive agriculture of ours has produced high yields in the short term, but in the long term, farmers are stuck with exhausted soils, with a loss of biodiversity that they need to ensure that their crops remain stowed but are also healthy, resistant to pests and diseases. Think of the dewatering of the soil, which means that it is now dry, which affects the farmers themselves. All these choices were short-term choices. It has been waiting so long for the courage to make long-term choices, to start with the animals. 640 million animals per year are bred, used and killed in the slaughterhouse in the Netherlands. That's over 1,200 animals per minute. Those are incredible numbers. And luckily, more and more people get to see the images that make them wake up and think: this is not right; it goes against human dignity to deal with animals like this. There are more and more people who opt for a plant-based diet. But it is up to the government to ensure that this transparency is provided and that we stop using euphemistic words such as 'clear', 'animal-friendly meat' and 'human slaughter'. None of these things exist. It's gassed, it's using animals and it's a waste of food. Mr. Chairman. The choice we have to make is therefore the choice to reduce the number of animals in Dutch livestock farming by 75% in the short term. Then there is free land to restore nature, to give land back to nature and also to build the homes that are needed. Because the Netherlands is the most densely stocked country in the world. We are discussing what to do with our land in our country: housing is needed, we need food production, yes, but clean energy is also needed. It is a little strange that in such a country we use two thirds of our land area for agriculture, which is 70% export oriented. So it's not even for our own food consumption. Almost half of our land is for livestock farming. There is an area almost as large as the province of Limburg full of only cutting maize. We don't eat that ourselves, that's for livestock farming. If it's so tight in our country and we're dealing with such a big nature problem, we're living in the sixth extinction wave; the biodiversity crisis really can't wait for us to take action to solve it, then you have to make the choice to free up land for nature as the weather. This means that in addition to ensuring more housing in the cities where that can convert office buildings, improving the flow, but also maintaining the viability, you also opt for a necessary shrinkage in the number of animals in the livestock farm, because then you can also build at the rural cores. Then you can build there, in the villages, in the regions, where it is already good, or improve it. Then there'll be room to live. For every square meter you play free to live, 9 m2 of nature comes back. In this way, the Minister can solve the problem that she and all her predecessors have struggled with in one go. She can solve the biodiversity crisis. She can help free the farmers from the cramping system of livestock farming. They're never gonna win that game. The Netherlands is an expensive country. Apart from all the natural, environmental and animal welfare problems, the analysis has also been very clear for a long time. The production of the world market is not for Dutch farmers. Our costs will always be too high, and farmers will always be forced to steer the costs very much. This brings them back into the discussion that they do not comply with the nature and environmental rules. It's an unfeasible system for everyone. The choices that go with this are also that you protect farmers from unfair competition from outside Europe through free trade agreements. In that the other parties really do not know. Agree with a treaty with Ukraine and then complain to the Minister of Agriculture that battery eggs from Ukraine are being imported into the Netherlands. You said yes to that yourself. I'm gonna take a look at the VVD. D66 can do some of that, by the way. These kinds of choices are part of the plan. There's money. There are European subsidies. We can use them to help farmers move to the agriculture of the future, which is sustainable in the long term and which allows them to apply their farming skills again instead of being, as they are now, a factory manager on a very large field with only one crop, a monoculture, and no other life, or in a very large megastal with much more animals than they will ever know. Mr. Chairman. There is change in the air, but waiting is still a ruler and a coalition who dares. The Party for Animals can't wait until it's time. The beginning is there, but it really isn't enough. 26% reduction in nitrogen, while you know it's not going to be enough, is keeping farmers in the same trap. That's the definition of madness: doing the same thing every time and expecting different outcomes. We need radical choices. They can and must be made. Then we can make it in the Netherlands for nature, for the farmers, for the animals and for the people who live there a lot more finer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u311	It's flown by. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Wassenberg for part two of the main meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u312	I'll take a sip of water first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u313	Take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I start with animal welfare and I end with animal welfare. In between is a whole palette of flavors for this main meal. Unfortunately, animal welfare is the Minister's closing point, literally. In recent weeks, from the Ministry, we have received a number of letters and reports that were sometimes due almost a year ago, for example about the chaos at NVWA, the handling of barn fires and the long-awaited evaluation of the Animal Law. The Ministry's animal welfare policy was limited to three priorities: animal transport, the handling of barn fires and care for young animals. And even on these points, very little has happened. Last month we discussed this in detail in the AO Animals in livestock farming. At the heart of the problem is that animals still have little legal protection. The poor law we do have for the protection of animals also makes exceptions, such as the carrying out of interventions and the separation of the dam and its young during the suckling period. The intrinsic value of animals is formally recognised, but at the same time is pushed aside for economic interests. That article is an empty shell. I ask the Minister to stop the open standards that cannot be enforced and also to stop exceptions in the legislation. I also ask that we communicate openly and honestly about what is happening in livestock farming. Because cabinet after cabinet agrees that consumers need to know where their food is coming from today: transparency. But the daily reality behind meat, dairy, eggs and fish is actively kept away from the public. There is a huge gap between the horrible reality for the hundreds of millions of animals in livestock farming and fishing and the cheerful image that people are being told. Never before have so many images come out that show the harsh reality of the slaughter of animals and also of life in the stables. There are footage from rabbit farming, where nearly half a million rabbits die prematurely from misery every year in their cages. Also last year, no inspector came by for a regular check-up. There are footage from duck farming, where ducks never come out and have no water to swim in and where animals can no longer stand on their feet by breeding on extreme growth and have hip problems. There are images from the pig farming of newborn pigs where the tail is cut off and the teeth are filed and of sows that are stuck between bars while they are inseminated by an inexperienced, hired force. But with these images, the Minister often says that they are not representative of the sector. At the same time, the Minister does nothing to provide a disclaimer with misleading projects such as The Pig Story, the promotional campaign of the pig sector. The Minister lets it happen that the EU puts millions of euros in meat promotion at the moment when meat consumption seems to decline through consumer awareness. That is outright sabotage of her own cabinet goals. And that happens with money from Europe. The Minister supports Agriktie with tens of thousands of euros to develop the Farmer project in the classroom. I ask the Minister to put an end to these misleading campaigns or at least offer counter-play. Ensure a fair picture, full openness and information on what animals in the livestock industry undergo before their meat or products end up in the supermarket. Stop subsidies for the promotion of animal products. Whatever has to do with it is manure. During her term of office, the Minister rethought on manure policy. She needed time for that. Only recently did the contours for a possible new manure policy emerge. To outline the problem, the Netherlands produces 75 billion kilos of manure per year. That is 90 billion litres or 5,500 litres of manure per Dutchman per year. That's one bathtub full of manure per Dutchman per week. It's huge. Hard to imagine. It's not easy when there's one of those giant elephants in the room on a file. The problem of manure is extremely complex if you do not look at the number of animals in livestock farming and if you are not prepared to drastically reduce that number of animals. The long rethinking of the Minister seems to have been used mainly to avoid this one solution, a structural, mandatory, substantial reduction in the number of animals, very carefully. That's a waste of time. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen crisis is, of course, a derivative of the manure policy that has been failing for 45 years. Because of the large number of animals we breed, use and kill, we produce much more manure than our land can handle. I just mentioned the numbers. We're going over all kinds of environmental boundaries or we're gonna sand it. If it's not nitrate or phosphate, it's ammonia, methane or just smell. The rules with which we should stay just below the different borders time and time again are building up. It drives farmers crazy. The Minister believes that its manure policy will become less complex with the new contours, but I doubt that. For example, she is still working on begging the European Commission to get an exemption to drive more manure on land than the rest of Europe, the derogation. And yes, then it becomes again manure millimeters. Detailed rules about where you can drive out manure at any time and in what way: farmers are mad about it. Smaller manure production could be more beneficial for the individual farmer. In 2016, a pig farmer paid on average €51,000 in manure disposal costs. That is in the same order of magnitude as the entire entrepreneurial income. If less manure is produced throughout the Netherlands, much less manure, then manure finally gets value again. Then the farmer no longer has to pay to get rid of his manure, so he can sell it to a farmer. Less manure, by keeping a lot less animals in total, is not so bad. In the end, it is the agro-industry that makes money from farmers. The animal feed companies, food manufacturers, slaughterhouses, those are the ones that are most opposed to shrinking. It's about their earning model, not the individual farmer's model. Over the past decades, we have seen a steady decline in the number of farms. According to the CBS, no less than six farms a day have disappeared in the last 20 years. Many fewer farmers now have more animals than 20 years ago. The margins are thin; bulk production does not produce a sustainable earning model. My group has advocated it more often: fewer animals means less manure, less problems. If we kept 75% less animals, we would be able to grow all animal feed ourselves, then we would no longer have to burn down the Amazon and drive all manure back on land. That seems to me to be circular farming. But in the Minister's view on circular agriculture, manure factories also have a place. As far as my group is concerned, this shows above all the weakness of the concept of circular agriculture. With a little effort, you can put everything underneath it. Fertiliser plants exist at the mercy of the manure surplus, with a subsidy of 4 billion to a new industry that will firmly resist the shrinkage of the number of animals. Fertilisers provide hardly any energy, cause a great deal of nuisance to residents and are often surrounded by fraud. This manure fraud, which is also emphasised by the Public Prosecutor's Office, can only be countered if the manure fraud incentive is removed. This fraud incentive is eliminated by producing less manure. I find it worrying that this is not part of the Minister's thinking. In addition to nitrogen and manure policies, there is a headache file that is pushed forward, dragged from cabinet to cabinet: the non-functioning of the NVWA. Despite the fact that the board of reports on the structural problems of that supervisor almost collapses below the weight, four more critical reports were published under this minister. If you look at these reports on the meat chain and its monitoring, you can read about a sector without any self-cleaning capacity, where mass stands first and production speed exceeds hygiene and animal welfare, with an undressed and failing monitoring device, which is unable to act against it. According to the NVWA veterinarians and inspectors who control the animals and the meat, there is a great culture of fear. Veterinarians who do want to intervene when they see how animals are being abused have to deal with aggression, verbal and physical, and with intimidation; Mr Graus also mentioned it. Whistleblowers are being transferred or even prosecuted. If you complain, you're gonna get chopped up. At the same time, there is a group of veterinarians who refuse to act against abuses. And a group that gets from their own NVWA executive order not to maintain. So if there are inspectors to detect violations, it is only a question of whether action is being taken. That is also why the Minister decided to set the rule at a number of locations that all inspections should be carried out by two inspectors. It's called the four-eyed principle. A high level of capacity and knowledge is therefore needed to ensure adequate monitoring of this sector, but capacity has been insufficient for years. The four-eye principle has therefore been considerably scaled down, despite all the wrongs that have been observed. Deloitte put figures on capacity problems for the first time this year. As many as two thirds of its tasks cannot be carried out properly by the NVWA due to insufficient capacity and quality. Two-thirds of the jobs! For example, there is insufficient capacity to monitor in the stables. That is something the Party has been warning for years before the Animals. For example, in the last two years, not one regular check has been carried out on holdings with meat chick parents. Those are the puffy chicks' parents. Those parents have the same genes and therefore the same growth rate as those puff chicks, but because they are used longer than those six weeks, they get less food and drink because they grow less fast. So you breed a chick on extreme growth and you remember the parent animals than food to slow down that growth. That's how sick the system is. The NVWA knows from its own risk analysis that only 38% of the holdings with chicken parents comply with the rules. In total, almost 9 million parent animals are left to their fate at 100 farms. Nor does the NVWA have sufficient capacity to monitor the prevention or detection of animal diseases. This means that there is a high risk of an animal disease being detected later, spreading rapidly in the event of an outbreak and increasing the damage to humans and animals. This is very worrying given the animal disease crisis that we are currently in. I mean, we called corona, we call it bird flu; corona has led to the premature gassing of millions of mink and half a million chickens and ducks have already been killed for bird flu. But where did that capacity come from at NVWA? What tasks are not being carried out? What did the NVWA have to drop out of its hands? In every report that reveals the failure of the NVWA, the reaction of the responsible executive, including the minister's ministers, is very shocking, we are going to deal with it. But nothing changes. However, the management of the NVWA is working hard on the whistleblowers. At the beginning of this year, the Minister seemed at last to be aware of the causes of these problems and their consequences. Quote: "The pressure on the slaughter process, motivated by economic considerations, has, in my opinion, become too great to guarantee the interests of animal welfare and food safety, but also adequate supervision, in an adequate way." That's what the minister wrote at the beginning of the year. And that's right: the only way to get out of this continuous spiral is to actually reduce the pressure on the slaughter process. The number of animals in the Dutch livestock sector is so high that the breeding process, the feeding of animals into the stables and the disposal of animals to the slaughterhouse is very tightly planned. Everything revolves around mass, to keep the process profitable, and that creates that perverse incentive to continue to breed, use and kill animals. The only solution is to drastically reduce the number of animals bred, used and killed. The interests of animals in this system, aimed at high production and low costs, are still subordinate to the interests of the livestock and meat sectors. And all the reports show that the NVWA is unable to map the problems, let alone solve them. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, the NVWA is removed from the Ministry of Agriculture. Inspectors should no longer be sent on their own, but there must always be someone from the animal police. That is something that Mr Graus has often argued for. Not only in the cattle industry, the NVWA drops big stakes. The Deloitte report also looked at the monitoring of the dog and cat trade. There's a lot going wrong in that dog and cat business too. According to Deloitte, the supervision of that trade in dogs is very inadequate. There is a supervisory intensity of 3%, where this should be at least 10%. But in the cat trade there is no supervision. Where that leads, the day before yesterday we saw undercover in the Netherlands: sick cats; cats with serious genetic defects, deliberately bred like this; cats under fleas, not vaccinated, with forged papers. And: no control whatsoever by the NVWA. The supervision of the cat trade is completely reactive, Deloitte writes. And that makes it so attractive for criminals: high profits, a chance of getting almost zero; and if you run into the light, you get a warning when it's a little bit off. Well, she'll learn. How does the Minister view the NVWA's commitment to the cat and dog trade? She can't be satisfied with that, can she? Mr. Chairman. I'm switching to the subject of agricultural poison. The Minister said on TV a year and a half ago that it had to be radically different with the use of agricultural poison. That was a reaction to the investigation where poison was found in the diapers of babies from neighbors of bulb fields. It's in their house, it's in the air, they're breathing it in, it's coming in the urine. And of course locals are very concerned about their own health, and about their babies. And what changed in that year and a half? The problems are day in, day out exactly the same. And not just for residents, because research also shows that the poison is much more widespread. To the core of protected nature areas, where there is no spray, poison residues are found. These pesticides not only end up in the environment by blowing up, spraying or rinsing the ground, but it can also evaporate and crash for miles away. It would be radically different, but what came was a new paper book with voluntary measures and non-binding targets for 2030. We now know about voluntary sector plans in agriculture: nothing changes. The practice remains radically the same. The Minister is now afraid to move an inch without backing the Ctgb, which assesses pesticides in the Netherlands, and EFSA, the European authority. Motions calling on the Minister to go one step further than is strictly necessary do not apply. I refer to Mr De Groot's motion for a resolution on the restriction of the use of satsumas and the motion by Mr Ouwehand on the bee guideline. The Minister is looking for arguments to weaken the wishes of the Court or sometimes not even to implement them. The bee guideline is now becoming a dragging dossier. A European guideline was already in place in 2013, requiring tests to test pesticides for authorisation for the toxicity of wild bees, bumblebees and honey bees. If we are to have pollinators left in ten or twenty years' time, we really need to stop allowing toxins to kill these animals. But then the interests of the poison industry and industrial agriculture come back around the corner. Since 2013, this strong lobby has been able to stop the introduction of the bee guideline. In private Brussels, the Minister takes over that lobby, sometimes even verbatim. Journalism research has shown this. The tests would be 'insufficient workable', I quote. Last year, that was the occasional argument. At the moment, every effort is being made to increase the acceptable bee mortality by a poison. Was it in the original bee guideline not more than 7% of the population, now it should be double or even triple also provable. The Chamber has already expressed its opinion and has said that it is in favour of the original guideline, i.e. with an acceptable bee mortality of up to 7% for honeybees, bumblebees and wild bees. Once again, I call on the Minister to make a commitment to this in the various European consultations. By a majority of the Chamber, I have asked written questions about the scientific basis for the possible deviation from the original level of protection. We have not yet received that support as a Chamber, so I ask the Minister when it will be discussed in Brussels and when the Chamber will be given the basis for the proposed protection of bees. Mr. Chairman. Toxicity for insects is not the only gap in the European authorisation procedure. The health risks for young and unborn children are also not adequately tested. Can the Minister indicate what action she will take in Europe to ensure that the health risks for young and unborn children are included in the assessments? Perhaps the most important thing is that substances are now only tested individually, while a grower usually works with different substances. A total of 28 different chemicals have been found in different combinations on strawberries. What do these poison cocktails do with our health and the environment? How do animals, like insects, react to these poison cocktails? No one knows because they're not tested for it. As early as 2005, European legislation has been adapted, requiring regulators to look at the combination effects of agricultural poison once a method has been developed by EFSA. How is it that we have been waiting 15 years for a method to test for those stacking effects of toxins? As long as there is no method for such a test, the Minister should argue for an additional safety factor for those individual substances. It can be introduced quickly. In the last debate on this issue, the Minister replied that she should first see if there is European support, but there have been 15 years of European regulation and therefore support for it. Is the Minister going to make a commitment to an additional security factor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u315	This is called an agricultural budget debate, but once the Animal Party has spoken, there is no debate at all. Why is that? When I look at my colleagues in this way, I think that people are no longer interested in the story of the Party for Animals, because it is one great eulogy, one great caricature of reality, which is being brought forward here. When will the positive story of the Party for Animals come about what is going well in the sector and how we can change things? On plant protection: Mr Wassenberg also knows exactly that there is a vision of the future of plant protection. Direction 2030 almost emission-free, almost residue-free. All kinds of attempts are being made, and then I hear such a story that only radiates negativity. When does the positive story of the Party for the Animals really come forward, so that there is connection? Because there's no connection. I only see colleagues looking around: what is going on here? We can hear it, but we can't do anything with it. It doesn't radiate any connection at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u316	My pants are falling when Mr. Von Martels comes up with this sort of thing. Isn't Mr Von Martels from the CDA, the party that, among other things, has messed up the misery with the PAS? The party that makes sure that farmers really can't go anymore, that the Netherlands is still and that we have such a huge nitrogen problem? He's from the party that said a few years ago: well, maybe the judge will cut it up, but then we won for a couple of years? That's what his predecessor Koopmans said in a debate. How dare Mr von Martels come up with this? It's a goddamn game, isn't it? This can't be happening, can it? It is precisely the CDA that has caused a very large proportion of the problems. They are then denied, as we saw in Mr Geurts' contribution. The only thing I'm doing right now is saying: these are the problems and you should be looking for directions to resolve them. That the CDA wants to keep it all radically the same, I do understand. Let me come back to that crop protection: even a research institute like the PBL says that we must be careful not to allow voluntary work to be carried out without commitment. That's what they're watching. At the moment when only voluntary agreements are made, everyone will say: to my body no polonaise, I don't have to do it, let the neighbor take steps first. This way, we won't make any progress. The CDA is really one of the architects of the misery we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u317	That's right. We're not getting anywhere. The argument in my speech was correct: how do we get there? By looking at what is needed in the future to take steps forward. That is what the CDA is trying to do, but I have not yet seen any proposal from the Animal Party that goes in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u318	The first thing you have to do to get ahead is acknowledge the problem. When I listen to the CDA's contribution, I hear that the CDA doesn't even recognize the problem. Then how can you solve problems? I told you, we're in this nitrogen crisis, which the CDA is largely responsible for. The moment you're deliberately blind to that, you're not going to make any progress. That's what I'm talking about. Step one for solving problems is the recognition of problems. Why don't you let the CDA get started on that one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u319	I have two own-initiative papers on greening in the cities and on meadow birds: all good ideas. I'm assuming the Party for Animals supports them, too. I also hope that she supports that integrated plan. The motions that we are tabling tomorrow will show whether this is indeed the case with the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u320	If I may say so, the Animal Party is indeed a great supporter of greenery in the city. So that's where we can find each other. So there are really topics on which we can find each other. But again: when it comes to addressing the problems, I see very little movement at the CDA. That's what every solution starts with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u321	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u322	I'm moving on. I was talking about toxins, which were also the subject of the interruption debate. The Minister will also realise that the time when the most toxic substances will be removed from the market is coming. In its 2030 Future vision of plant protection, the hope is based on new genetic engineering techniques, with which pesticides would hardly be needed anymore. Without any compulsion, leaning on awareness and using genetic technology, vague targets should be achieved by 2030. It's better to call it the 2030 Future Dream. The fact that even the implementation programme of this dream of the future does not contain concrete measures and indicators indicates that everything will remain radically the same. I would like to talk about the Minister's nature policy. Research by six nature organisations shows that there is no direction from the Empire to see whether the deployment of provinces actually results in a favourable state of conservation and who should make what effort to achieve goals. As long as there are no binding national and developed provincial objectives and the main causes, intensive agriculture and livestock farming, are not addressed, we will never get anywhere. The fact that we are not getting there is evident from the fact that the Minister, like her predecessor, Mr Bleeker, has gone to Brussels to examine whether weak Natura 2000 sites could be removed. Turns out what? It can't be. Nor do there appear to be any structurally weak areas in the Netherlands, because the causes here lie in human action and therefore can be removed and must be removed. The Netherlands needs not less, but more nature. In order to achieve robust nature, whatever the minister wants, the PBL requires 150,000 hectares of new nature. That we need more nature, we can also see in this time of corona, when in the weekends of beautiful weather hundreds of thousands of people move into the nature reserves and sometimes even cause nuisance. That people seek peace in nature is easy to understand. For that reason, let us expand and strengthen nature. Fortunately, there is also something positive to report, and I would also say in the direction of Mr von Martels, because the Minister is committed to planting 37 000 hectares of extra forest over the next ten years. It's just that it's a long-term thing for the Cabinets after Rutte III. If we assume a need of 150,000 hectares of extra nature, we are with those 37,000 hectares of forest on a quarter of what the PBL believes is necessary. It's an important step, but it's a first step. Besides, planting trees is just part of the story. It is very good that trees are added, as long as they are additional, so are added to nature and not to come instead of other nature. We need to look at it here and now. It is precisely in the short term that trees are essential in the fight against climate change and to overcome the biodiversity crisis. This is a battle that we must win over the coming years, but on balance, the number of trees in the Netherlands is still falling. And then we haven't even talked about biodiversity loss. Apart from the plans, this is the reality: the number of trees is decreasing. Just look at what happened last week when the Minister of IenW signed the A27 route decree for the death sentence for thousands of trees at Amelisweerd. Those trees are cut down for a widening road, with the cynical low point that these trees will probably be able to get into the oven of the asphalt factory in Utrecht, because it runs on biomass. It can't get much more cynical. Also in the case of nature compensation for this widening of the road, the Party for Animals still has some doubts. Since 2007 I was a Member of State in Limburg and at that time the Southern Court of Auditors investigated the quality of compensation nature. According to the Court of Auditors, it was often pitiful, but it was not monitored by the province. Valuable nature disappeared, messed up instead, but on paper it looked good. All the signatures were in the right place. But if it is not controlled by independent bodies, it is another paper reality. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this, because I fear that this is a broader issue. Can the Minister indicate whether there is an overview of the quality of nature compensation, how it is researched and monitored and by which institutes? Not only trees disappear, but also quiet areas. Due to the construction of roads and industrial sites and air traffic, at least 15,000 hectares of silence have disappeared in the Netherlands in recent years. But in the delusion, the haste and the noise of the day, it is even more important to have places where peace is protected. Does the Minister agree with me that it is worrying that these areas of silence should disappear? I ask this because the Animal Party wants to know what protection the Minister can offer quiet areas. The Minister is responsible for the state of nature and there are areas of silence. Then the meadowbirds. As we know, iconic species such as the grutto and the kivit have been in a bad way for years. Last Saturday, the Grutto attack plan was presented, an action plan from nature and farmers' organisations and provinces. There are many good proposals, such as fewer cattle, connecting areas for meadow birds and stopping artificially lowering water levels. But the Party of Animals is concerned about the attacking part of the plan. As a last resort, the hunt for predators should be deployed. Yes, only as a last resort, but this ignores the fact that predation is not a major cause of the decline in meadow birds. That's the human being, isn't it? If there are enough insects as food for the birds, if there are sufficient breeding and hiding opportunities, conditions will be created for a better pasture bird status. That's the real solution. I'd like a response from the Minister. How do we prevent the first measure from being taken at the last resort, because it is very easy and tempting, but it is also quite wrong to blame the fox where man is to blame? Speaking of hunting, how is it that in the Netherlands it is still allowed to hunt endangered species, on species on the red list? This applies, for example, to the hare and the rabbit. Compare that with the grutto, which is on the same red list and in the same category as the hare and the rabbit. I assume and I hope that the Minister will not allow the hunt for the grutto either, but why on other species on that red list? A majority of the House recently in written questions called for the hare and rabbit to be removed from the list of species that are free to hunt, now that they are on the red list. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she's willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u323	Meadowbirds play a leading role tonight. I know a lot of people who have worked enthusiastically in meadow bird areas, but who have become almost despondent because of the fact that predation has prevailed. It has been decided to stop all fine initiatives. So if you want to achieve something, all facets of a plan are part of it. If predation is part of that, I find it a pity if the Party for Animals denies it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u324	Under normal circumstances, predation really doesn't play a big role. During last Friday's presentation we heard that the meadows are often even green plains and that the meadow bird has one problem: it is not green, but brown. So that's what he's gonna do. In the high grass it is sheltered when there are also herbs and other plants. The moment you start mowing very intensively and mowing around such a nest of the meadow bird, it says like a beacon in the landscape. Foxes aren't stupid animals; they see there's a nest. The problem is not that the fox sees that there is a nest; the problem is that it is possible for that fox to see that there is a nest there. At the moment when there is not so intensively mowed, that there is a more natural landscape and that the grutto has hiding possibilities, that fox does not have the opportunity to find all those gruttos. The problem is not that the fox takes a grutto; the problem is that the grutto goes extremely badly through livestock farming, because of the reduced water level and because of the intensive mowing policy. That's the problem. The fox isn't the problem. This became clear at last Friday's presentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u325	It's not about blaming anyone, either. That fox is not the guilty one; that's right. But it is an overall plan that can only be effective and give a nice perspective when you tackle everything. Predation is part of that. Mr Wassenberg is only talking about the grutto, but there are more meadow birds, all of which have their specific characteristics; one is only in the large meadow area, the other is in some higher vegetation. So there are big differences. Let us therefore take all aspects with us. That's my plea. I hope to find the Party for Animals in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u326	Predation is a completely natural phenomenon. That's not a phenomenon that kills the meadow bird and makes it worse. That predation is part of the ecosystem, part of the ecological balance. The minute you start blasting predators, you're gonna disrupt that dislocated system even further. Again, we agree that the meadowbird needs help, but it is not helped with the rifle. It is helped by a better environment where it can hide and where it has food. That's very important. Those are the reasons why things can get better with the grutto.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u327	I would still like to draw some attention to the Grutto Attack Plan. When we listen to the Party for Animals, it seems as if it is only about shooting predators, while the plan is very nuanced. The hunt for predators is ultimately the very, very last step. The Party for Animals now pretends to be the first or the only step. All other conditions mentioned by the Party for Animals are in the plan. Think of the conditions for a higher level of water and for more herbs to come. All these things have to be okay first. And then, as one last step to save the grutto, the hunt could be a means. That's how nuanced it is. In his speech, it seems to be only about hunting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u328	What I'm afraid of is that the Grutto Attack Plan falls into the hands of politicians. A number of measures are proposed that hurt, cost money and are difficult. The Animal Party is strongly in favour of no longer artificially lowering water levels, less intensive hunting, ensuring that there are herbal areas, ensuring that there is sufficient feed for meadow birds in the grass plains and ensuring that there are insects and that there are also flowers and herbs. At the moment when you as a politician have the choice between different options, it is sometimes very tempting to see what hurts the least and what is fastest to achieve and then grab the gun. That plan of attack is indeed balanced, I agree. The only thing I'm terrified of is that all sorts of things are about to be ripped out of their context and said "the attack plan says we can use the gun, so we're going to use the gun" before all these other possibilities have been investigated or executed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u329	Very good. Mrs. Bromet, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u330	It's two for twelve for the grutto. I think it is very good that there is an initiative from the bottom up, from all kinds of interest groups, to achieve this. I would say: give it a chance before you blame your own colleagues, politicians, for destroying the plan. We're in and we're looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u331	If the rifle is one of the options, we're farther from home than we are now. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Chairman. Then about the animals on the red list. We received a letter yesterday from the Minister of Nature Policy. That letter was dated November 23rd. Today we also received a letter about nature policy. It was dated November 24th. These letters resembled each other to a great extent, but a few pieces were missing. Yesterday's letter said a piece about the redlisted species. That was missing from today's letter. I should like to know from the Minister whether she intends to remove the red-listed species of hare and rabbit from the list of freely huntable species. Why was that passage deleted from yesterday's letter? Because you can put them next to each other and then you can see which passages have been removed. I would therefore like to make that clear to the Minister. Then I'd like to talk about hunting wild cats. It is counterproductive, especially since there are good alternatives, such as catching, castrating and repositioning wild cats so that they do not contribute to population growth. There can also be unintentional shooting of house cats. In 2013 a motion of the Party for Animals was adopted that calls for the hunting of wild cats to be stopped. But there are still provinces where that cat hunt is not prohibited. Can the Minister promise that this motion will be implemented as soon as possible and that the hunt for wild house cats will cease? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Still about the most elusive yacht, namely the underwater yacht. This year, the Minister took the decision to restrict fishing for brasem and pike-fish due to the decline in populations. She's keeping her back straight here. That's to be commended. The Animal Party simply wonders why fishing for eels and indirectly glass eels is not being dealt with. In the AO Fisheries of 12 October, the Minister stated that the Dutch eel approach was working, because the human impact on eel stocks had decreased significantly. The Minister therefore felt that there was no need to tighten up current policies. However, on 30 October, two weeks after the AO on fisheries, a ICES report was published stating that eel mortality by human activities should be brought as close as possible to zero. Does the Minister recognise this new information that eel stocks are indeed deteriorating and that human intervention is helping to do so? If so, is the Minister prepared to restrict the capture of wild eels and glass eels? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm approaching my end. Or: the end of the text; that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u332	I almost called the ambulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u333	I've got six minutes left, so I'd be worried. But I have to hurry. I want to talk about the Dolphinarium. Is it even justified to keep animals in captivity just for our entertainment? That question explicitly came up at the drama with the killed chimpanzees in DierenPark Amersfoort three weeks ago. Many people expressed their disgust at the brutal manner in which these animals came to their end; they were shot. Was it a tragic incident? Yes, but unfortunately it is exemplary for the way in which in the Netherlands the life of an animal is always subordinate to the interests of man. That's what we see at the Dolphinarium. At the end of last year an evaluation of the Dolphinarium was published on behalf of the Minister. It was devastating. The animals are used as attractions, the educational message is far away and the animal quarters do not comply with the rules, while the dome, the concrete circus tent, was still grown for millions in 2013. I've been to the Dolphinarium twice myself over the last few years. The first time was together with VVD colleague Rudmer Heerema, when we visited it in 2016. A month and a half ago, I was there with the Volkskrant. The evaluation committee did not exaggerate. It's all about the show. The first thing you hear when you pick up the tickets is what time the main show in the dome starts. In that dome, the first thing you smell is a piercing chlorine air. It was like a sports fund pool. And then the show, where dolphins have to jump, their trainers have to launch, everything with loud music and light effects. Outside there was also plenty to do: sea lions who had to clap on command and do tricks, jump off a made rock, and all that also on pounding hompapamusic. The Minister concluded that the Dolphinarium did not comply with the rules of her zoo permit. The Minister said the helm must be changed radically. That's what we agreed on with the park. The Minister also says: if the improvements are insufficient, if nothing happens, we can find ourselves in a situation where the permit will be withdrawn. You can't keep doing that, can you? On 1 July 2019, the Minister replied to written questions from the Party for Animals. She then wrote that in 2017, three years ago, there was talk about adjusting the current dome show, but I quote from the Minister's answer: "Unfortunately, to date, the show has not been properly adapted on these points. I will make concrete agreements with the Dolphinarium about adjusting the show." So in 2017 the minister makes appointments with the Dolphinarium, for two years the Dolphinarium does not keep those appointments, in 2019 the Minister makes new appointments, which will not be met and in 2020 the Minister says: I will make appointments with the Dolphinarium. A few years ago, the Dolphinarium was taken over by a Spanish owner, who wants to change the Dolphinarium into, I quote, 'a leisure park with a wider range than that of a traditional animal park', because another quote 'the guests want to be more entertained'. That's why the Dolphinarium left the Dutch Association of Zoos two years ago. That makes sense, because there's no place for an amusement park or a circus there. For the Secretary of State, all signals must be red. What are the words of the Dolphinarium worth if they openly exhort to become an entertainment park and are violated by appointment by appointment? Now the Dolphinarium complains that they're having such a hard time with corona, but for the past seven years it's only suffered a loss. That has nothing to do with corona. In 2017, the park was technically bankrupt and could only be saved with a million investment by the new Spanish owner. And since then, they've been very secretive about the annual figures. How realistic are these large investments in this context? Does the Minister have a look at the numbers? Mr. Chairman. Government is forward-looking, not just a little protocol. Major investments needed to comply with the permit for an amusement park that has been losing for years are a delusion. Appointments have turned out to be worthless. Seize now! Stop the breeding program, make sure there are no new animals and stop the circus program. Make the Dolfinarium a shelter. Let's see which animals can possibly be removed and see if you can give them the freedom at all. At least get that checked out. That's not only better for the animals. It's wise to rule too. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my final topic: the elephant Buba. Here he comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u334	We're here. Hey, hey!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u335	That's another animal in captivity. It is the last circus elephant of the Netherlands. The Minister did not manage to arrange a shelter for the elephant in time this summer and therefore the temporary exemption was extended until the end of this year. But how's it going? Are you sure this deadline's gonna be met? In France, the last poles of the first and only shelter for elephants from circuses and zoos have been struck, on which various international elephant experts have been involved. Here Buba could be taken in peace and quiet, with her well-being first and foremost. There Buba can also be socialized to live with fellow species, because that is what we are all after. Mr. Chairman. I'll stop for Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u336	Mr Bubafan. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Buba is a completely different story. I also spoke to elephant experts and veterinary experts on the subject. Buba is 45 years old. She'll live for a maximum of ten years. Then she's an old lady. She's an old lady already. Buba is a very exceptional case. I assume you know the history of Buba. They have already tried to put her in a group once, but Buba is also a difficult elephant. So we have to pay attention. I'm judging animal activists who hang over that elephant with a drone to take pictures. If you like animals, you already don't. So that's not right. They're also playing games, which I'm judging. We need to keep Buba under control of all of us. She's lived here for decades. She's personal with the people, with our language, with our feelings. You can't put Buba in a group anymore. So please don't even think about it. It's not gonna happen. They did it. Don't do it to that little animal for those last few years. I hope Mr. Wassenberg lets his biology heart speak. Buba is not a normal elephant. She's domesticated, 45 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u338	Buba is an elephant that can be resocialized, but it doesn't happen overnight. This is the best shelter. The worst thing that can happen to Buba is to stay with that family, in the most unnatural conditions, continue to be dragged from village to village, and then secretly break out again, so that she gets in touch with passers-by. People get to give carrots. It's forbidden, it's not allowed, but it does happen. Mr Graus also knows the newspaper photos of visitors who are allowed to give roots to the elephant. It's not allowed, but she's being used as an attraction. Buba needs to leave that family as soon as possible. Buba needs to get to the best place she can get to. That's a shelter. Buba needs to be resocialized. You can do that at Elephant Haven in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u339	Buba never goes there. Trust me. Even if I have to... really, that's not gonna happen. There are plenty of other places. That's not gonna happen. Mr. Wassenberg wasn't there when Buba wasn't allowed to perform anymore. That elephant wasn't used to it any other way. They had to go far away with that animal, because when she heard certain music she became rebellious. She even got mad about it. Really, Mr. Wassenberg, I once caught a little bird who had only been in such a small cage. Every time I took it out, he flew right back to his cage. He was deadly unhappy outside that cage. With all due respect, I would say: who are we all to talk about that? Psychiatrists are trained to treat millions of different people, so to speak, because every human being is unique. The elephant expert for Buba doesn't exist. If you see what life Buba has had for 45 years, it's impossible for her to go to France. She's gonna run away. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dijksma, one of the minister's predecessors, helped me with the exemption for Buba. I've arranged that waiver twice before, because Buba, like other elephants that have been caught, is dying. When that elephant is gone for three days, she stops eating and drinking. We all don't want that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u340	The last thing we want is for that elephant to fade away, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u341	But that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u342	Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u343	That elephant can be caught. Mr Graus says that there are other reception centres. There are no other reception centres in Europe. Mr. Graus mentioned a shelter in Italy. I took a look. That might be Zoosafari, but that's kind of an amusement park. I don't know any shelters. There are no other shelters. This is the first truly specialised reception centre in Europe, which really involves the best experts. This is the best place for Buba. I agree with Mr Graus that this resocialisation is not something that can happen today in the morning, not even today on the day after tomorrow, but within a long time. Buba still has that number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u344	I call Mr Graus. Easy, easy, easy!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u345	Why I can get a little emotional and fierce about that: a lynx had gone with a circus. That lynx ended up with a private man in Heerlen. The former NVWA, the AID, took that animal away from there. I said don't do it, because it's gonna go away. What's in it for you? Let that animal live the last few years. What happened? That animal was moved to such a zoo shelter, and the animal was gone within a few weeks or months. What good is it gonna do us? You're not gonna do that, are you? We have to think from the welfare of that animal, don't we? Whatever I don't think is fair is this. The Freiwald family wants to participate in a good shelter, but not in France. Now I see Mr. Wassenberg looking questionable and the Minister. Then come with me. I went there yesterday. Then we'll go to the Freiwald family together. But then you'll have to come too. Do not shake, while you do not know. I spoke to Mr Freiwald for hours yesterday. He wants the best, too. Natasha, the daughter, who grew up with that elephant, wants the best too. But not to France. As animal ambassadors, we must also be able to control that elephant. I want Buba taken care of somewhere around here. That can be done easily and it can be done well. We don't need a foreign expert to do it. We have everything we need in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u346	We all want Buba to get the best shelter. Perhaps Mr Graus and I should go eat a stuffed cake, one of his famous stuffed cakes. Let's see what the best place is. I'm sure that's Elephant Haven in France. I will not convince him of this debate, but I hope so in the coming days, because that is the very best place. The worst place is where Buba is now. That is something we need to avoid coûte que coûte. I am already talking a little French to stay in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u347	The debate had fallen a little bit, but we are getting back on fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u348	Mr Moorlag has a completely new approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u349	No, Mr President, because that proposal to eat a stuffed cake and have a cup of coffee seems to me to be an excellent proposal. It just hurts me that two animal welfare activists, I may call it quietly, fly each other in the hair here. So I hope, when we get the second term here tomorrow, they're gonna be sobbing in each other's arms. With a foot and a half, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u350	I can only confirm that, so who knows? There's Mr. Graus again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u351	Mr Graus draws his agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u352	In all the years I've been here, I've seen a lot of animals go away. I'm not an animal activist. I am an animal ambassador and an animal friend; that is a very big difference. Animal activists have to get rid of all these animals everywhere, but they're all getting rid of them. And they don't see all that anymore, because then they're gone. At the time, I told Mrs Dijksma that I would hold her responsible if Buba were to leave in storage. In fact, I would have filed a complaint against her. It's just death by guilt if you do that. You gotta go see how that animal... we got enough money, right? Then we'll have to set up a fund. Martijn Van Helvert of the CDA wants to do the same. Surely we can arrange something ourselves to give that animal a good old age with the best vet? We have Jacques Kaandorp and Klaver here, all zoo doctors. We have the best here. Why does that animal have to go to France, where they still have to invent the word "animal welfare"? The animal stays here! End of exercise. We have the best people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u353	I also read yesterday what the great elephant expert Van Helvert said about this, but I am not convinced by that. We agree that the elephant should be given the best shelter, that it should not die, that it should not perish. I'm also convinced that Elephant Haven is the best place, but we'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u354	The stuffed cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u355	With a stuffed cake and in harmony. Mr. Chairman. My last words are about Elephant Haven. Elephant Haven has indicated his willingness to give the circus people time to hand over Buba to her new caregivers, so that there is room for goodbye and a smooth transition. That's very important. However, we are getting signals that the circus is refusing to cooperate in the reception of the elephant by Elephant Haven and is now looking at an unknown place in Italy. That is what Mr Graus was talking about. Can the Minister confirm this? Can she provide information on the different reception sites that are currently being looked at? Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that the elephant should go to the best shelter and not to the shelter where the circus wants the elephant? That concludes my contribution, Mr President, and I have 17 seconds left, so I've done it pretty neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u356	You've done a great job. Thank you. If you were the main meal, we'll have dessert now. That is Mr Roelof Bishop of the Political Reformed Party, who will be the last speaker, and then we will close the meeting for today. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u357	Thank you, Mr President. I am confident that the two Limburg colleagues, like the political elephant experts, will come to a real solution tomorrow. That's gonna be okay. I really feel that. You're gonna be fine. So good luck, folks! Mr. Chairman. If it is the last time of such a budgetary treatment, the last time of a parliamentary period, then involuntarily you make a little of the balance sheet. I've done the same thing, of course. I've had a lot of contact all these years, including in the sector. In corona time that was a bit remote, but as soon as that was possible, we made some work visits again, recently taking into account all the corona measures. I have noticed that, whoever you speak, farmers, fishermen or other entrepreneurs in the sector are tired. They've been beaten. It started with the so-called calf fraud, where thousands of dairy farmers were unjustly dismissed as fraudsters. And now the nitrogen law is hanging over the sector. There is fear, fear: what expensive standards are we going to get? This is unworkable, unfeasible, and where does this end? Meanwhile, the Minister presented her agricultural vision. Circle farming was the goal. That's what it had to be. It is widely embraced, including in the sector. I've heard a lot of appreciation for that. Alone, how is that filled out? And what steps are being taken to come to a conclusion? In the meantime, the whole plan seems to have gone down a bit in beauty. Or isn't it? I would like to hear from the Minister whether this beautiful concept is still viable. This is linked to the next question, given the atmosphere that I find everywhere in that sector. How is the Minister going to give farmers and fishermen the confidence that there is a future for a new generation of farmers over the next six months, the remaining parliamentary period? And how does it give the confidence that the strength and craftsmanship in the sector will not be cut off but valued and exploited? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to highlight a few points. I see Mr De Groot walking around with his phone to show something to his colleagues. I think he would like to mention something for the Acts, but I do not think that is the right way. First of all, the troubles. Large groups of farmers are in trouble, first because of phosphate rights. By the way, the legislator has chosen, against our will, a minimum problem regulation. The message was, the judge's gonna have to figure it out. Two years later, we had to conclude that the judge literally said, "That's not up to us. The legislator has deliberately opted for a legal mouse hole; our consideration is that we are not going to repeat that political balance." Hundreds of families then suffer. How is the Minister going to do justice to this mess in the enforcement process? By now, thousands of nitrogen cases have been added. The Minister is now focusing on the PAS detectors, but there are many other companies that are now locked, while they have acted in good faith. The SGP wants these companies to be legalised and clarified as a matter of priority. Then the nitrogen controls, the nitrogen file. We are going to talk about it, but I would like to mention a few points. My specific question is: why does the new buy-back scheme contain some kind of professional ban? I realize that this is actually too much of a term, but that is basically what the sector is about. This is how it is perceived: a professional ban, whereby farmers who sell their farms cannot take over a farm in another place under the same conditions as in the sense of no increase in nitrogen emissions, nitrogen deposition and so on. Surely this is about reducing emissions and deposition rather than reducing the number of farmers? The Minister invests €1 billion in buying up businesses, but source-oriented emission reduction has to do much less, while generating more nitrogen gains per invested euro. We've put our finger on that before, and I keep asking the Minister to turn those roles around. Furthermore, I understand that the subsidy scheme chooses source-oriented sustainability for technology and that management proposals are rejected, while in practice you encounter fantastic developments. There are many ideas among farmers about how management measures can be used to combat nitrogen emissions in particular, but can also help to reduce the nitrogen blanket. Will the Minister ensure that management measures and related measurements are also invested? Because the latter is another point that needs to be taken into account. Let us use these ideas from within the sector, and not frustrate them by ignoring them or by threatening to introduce stricter emission standards for existing stables. In certain cases this may be useful and necessary, but there are many other possibilities. Alternatives that deliver more and bring us closer to the intended goal. I would say: double the number of experimental farms, take advantage of these opportunities together with the farmers and look around FoodValley how they have dealt with fine dust emissions there. Yeah, you'll get jealous. Mr. Chairman. If dairy farmers lose their derogation due to an administrative error, they may be fined tens of thousands of euros for their standard exceedance. In 2015, an SGP motion was already adopted to adapt the fertilizer regulation in such a way that administrative fines are adjusted if the nature and gravity of the infringement give rise to this. One situation is not the other, as recent advice by the Committee of Experts on Fertilizers Act shows. There is also a new penitentiary from the Ministry of Justice. The Fertilisers Act hardly gives room for customization. If this is already being applied, it has to do with deadlines being exceeded. That is why I would like to present a proposal for more tailor-made work to the Minister and his colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u358	I'll take it from here. Then it's part of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u359	Thank you very much. The Minister would like to look again at the system of fines. My specific question is whether it is prepared to include tailor-made thinking in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u360	Clear. There is a question from Mr Moorlag, which I would like to point out is that many people want to go home and the Minister still wants to go to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u361	Have a good night at work, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u362	The evening has only just begun for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u363	It's a short question, Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to nitrogen. Mr Bishop says: use the ideas from the sector, use the opportunities for innovation. But what level of reduction in nitrogen deposition should this lead to? Up to the 26% the Minister proposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u364	I don't know if you can achieve that ambition within the deadline. I have already said in an interruption in your direction that we must bear in mind that it will take a generation. It then depends on what measures you can take to achieve the lowest possible emission. That 26% is arbitrary to me. I would prefer you to have a plan of action whereby you, working towards a certain kind of circular agriculture, really take steps to achieve reduction................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is not a delimited whole; this is a process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u365	Fine. Mr De Groot, very briefly and on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u366	Yeah, excuse me, because I just walked through your speech a little bit, literally. That was about an internet poll that was there, which voted on whom Buba should receive. I would also like to call on everyone to do so. Mr Graus was one of the possibilities. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u367	Who's in front so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u368	I understand you had to share that for a while. That's definitely...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u369	Mr Graus is standing at one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u370	Look. Vote Dion Graus, I say in all objectivity. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u371	Thank you for your correct explanation, by the way. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Dan corona. All kinds of sectors receive targeted support because they have been severely affected by the corona crisis. If not the free calf farms and the duck farms. Why are these companies left to their own devices? I would also mention poultry farming, which, on top of the declining market and unfair international competition, has to do with a new avian flu outbreak. And is the Minister prepared to consider extending the support measures for the potato sector? The crisis is not over now that the catering industry is closed again. Mr. Chairman. Then the certification of points of sale for organic products. We think this is where the horse gets tangled behind the cart. As of 1 January, market buyers and specialty stores selling a few organic products will have to register at raison of €500 per year. Then, of course, you have to convert a lot of organic products, if you want to be able to recover those extra costs. So that's not an incentive for the biological display. The European Regulation allows for an exemption for small retail outlets. I ask the Minister to arrange such an exemption. Mr. Chairman. With regard to time, I should like to mention one more point. That's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u372	Buba!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u373	No, I'm not taking on the expertise on elephants. Unfortunately, I cannot compete with Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg. I would also like to give you that expertise. Mr. Chairman. It's about ecosystem services. How can farmers do green when they're red? A recent comparison of operating results shows, for example, that more extensive companies have an average of €30,000 per fixed labour force less than more intensive companies. What's their perspective? Maybe the Minister can reflect on that, too. We have been discussing this in an interruption for a while. Finally, the fisheries sector. That's what I want to end up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u374	There is another question from Mr Geurts. At this point or can we skip it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u375	I was still in my head with an elephant expert in my group, but we are not going to talk about that. My question to Mr SGP's colleague, Mr Bishop, concerns the point of 'organic'. I didn't quite understand. Have I understood correctly that there is a barrier to selling organic products in a market? It is very special that this minister is also going for the short chain. Is that obstruction in LNV's legislation? Could you perhaps explain that a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u376	That is a new measure. As of 1 January, authorisation must be obtained to sell organic products, even if they are part of your product range, not only on the market but also in specialty shops. If you're selling organic products, it needs to be certified. You must ensure that you have a certificate that you are entitled to. That costs you $500 a year. We say: that is actually blocking the supply of organic products in a natural way. I expect a clear answer from the Minister, but if necessary we are considering a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u377	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u378	If the Minister does not come up with a good explanatory answer, I am very curious about the motion, because this hinders the short chains.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u379	Yeah, that's exactly why we're saying something has to happen here. Mr. Chairman. The fishing. I do not have much time left to say much about this, but we are all very aware of the dark clouds hanging over this sector. My question to the Minister is specific: has the Minister, together with the sector, drawn up a sort of plan B, a plan of approach, and available to get through this storm, if it continues? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I was struck by the way in which Mr Geurts concluded his speech with the dependence of the good God, the Creator, who put us here on this earth, who gave us responsibilities and who, as it were, made us stewards to build and preserve the earth. What was good for me this afternoon and tonight is that you taste with all colleagues: how do you take the balance between building and preserving? In the accents we lay, we differ. We are also different in terms of principles from which we act. But I like the binding. We are all driven by the desire to humanly speak to the earth we have received, with the possibilities we have and taking into account the circumstances in which we are in............................................................................................................................... I wish the Minister, the collaborators and all colleagues the wisdom of the good God to make the right choices. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u380	I love it, too, because I think it's a very nice day's closure. Now we actually need to be quiet for a moment and just go home. Do you still need a brief interruption, Mrs Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u381	I'm thinking about it. I thought we'd take the next step. I have already asked the Prime Minister this in different terms. I am actually asking that question to the parties who are for sale with the stewardship, such as the CDA and the SGP. I don't need to answer now, but maybe tomorrow. How do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u382	That's a very good question. I suspect that Mrs Ouwehand has a Protestant-Christian background, in which... I won't go into any further details, but I recognize certain things. It's good to ask a question like that here. It is not for nothing that the SGP convinced us that we have embraced circular agriculture. That says something. It's about saving for the future. At the same time, we also know where European policy and Dutch government policy have brought the sector. That was not the farmers' initiative. They have responded to the policy. If you want to go to that other type of agriculture, then you will also have to pursue a careful policy that will enable that sector to take that step. That's why I say it costs a generation. Maybe we find that annoying and nasty and we want it faster, yes, but that's the reality. Do you want to give farmers, the families, the entrepreneurs, stability, security, stability and tranquility so that they actually start thinking along with it? Because I see that everywhere in the sector, they guarantee that and do not, in the meantime, come up with new measures every four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u383	Beautiful closing words, I establish. Thanks to the Minister. Good luck with the rest of her work day today. Give my regards to the Ministry. Tomorrow, deo volente, I will see you all again for part two of the first term and the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-24-tweedekamer-26.u384	And then there came a Buba with a big syringe and it blew out the meeting of November 24th.
